i-a0f550edc4e634d5-4	Mr President, I would like to Of course, tragedy and drama in our surrounding world are not primarily about money and economy. Many people are fleeing for their lives while others are fleeing their lives, because they have nothing at all, because they paradoxically have enough resources, enough information and enough networks to get here from difficult parts of the world. Never before have so many known so much about the world as right now. In this sense, we have probably only seen the beginning of the great migrations. That is all the more important when Sweden is doing the right thing, both in the short term in the acute refugee crisis and in the longer term to build a society that stays together and which is good both for us who have lived here for a long time and for those who will move here in the future. It's a big responsibility, full of dilemmas. But if we have said so, we must also say this: all our good ambitions will soon boil down to the black or red figures of the Excel sheet. Not all policies are about money, but you have to be able to count in order to understand the economic consequences of the policy. Then it is crucial if people who come to our country are expected and allowed to contribute and support themselves or, on the contrary, to wait seven years to support themselves. If Europe takes greater joint responsibility and if Sweden can get together for a more realistic migration policy, there are very great opportunities here. On the contrary, if Sweden and Germany are to do the job themselves or if unemployment among poorly educated and born abroad is permanent at Greek levels, we face long-term problems that are getting even worse. Sweden needs a new agreement to deal with what we are now facing. It's good that those calls are now starting. However, a truly meaningful settlement needs to go beyond just the urgent question of refugees. It is the long term that worries me most. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has basically well-managed public finances and can cope economically with temporary crises. But I want to warn against the general light-heartedness of the type of government interest rates is low, and we can afford to borrow. The expenditure pressure on public finances is high – much greater than willful political reforms are usually summed up. Let me be clear: a great deal of this should not just be burdened with the government. I am fully aware of that and therefore have some respect for the Ministry of Finance's difficulties to get plus and minus to make ends meet. Increased migration expenditure of SEK 30 or 40 billion a year – this corresponds to the entire Swedish defence, the entire aid or almost all higher education – is difficult to save for in the short term. But for this very reason the overall signals from the government are so ominous: First came the attempt to unilaterally abandon the Swedish surplus target. Then came huge deliberate increases in expenditure, ranging from housing subsidies and the cut-off in health insurance to traditional political will to spend – although it is now always called investing. It is now unclear whether the krona-by-krona principle applies, and it is uncertain whether the government will meet the expenditure ceiling for 2016. Added to this are rising expenses for sick leave and other automatic welfare costs. I'm not saying this is easy, because I know it's not. I am simply saying that, sooner or later, everything must be paid and that it requires much clearer economic and political leadership than what Sweden has today. When the outside world is dramatic, not only must the Ministry of Defence be Sweden's guard dog. So must the Ministry of Finance. Today we are debating the budget options for 2016. I would therefore like to begin by calling for the Moderates' reservations 1 and 6 in the report of the Committee on Budgets to be approved. Mr President, I would like to The development of the Swedish economy is also taking place towards a fund of international uncertainty. The European Commission's autumn forecast shows that emerging economies are slowing down and that world trade is developing weaker than in the past. This naturally affects Sweden, where exports account for half of GDP. It therefore means more to Sweden what is happening in the outside world than it means to the outside world what is happening in Sweden. It is not meant as an impolite remark that we would have no meaning for others. But there is now very little room in a global economy for Sweden to conduct bad economic policy. We are not a protected country that always safely lands on its feet, no matter what decisions we make. Mr President, I would like to Let me point out two main features of a better economic policy. First of all, we must break the new exclusion that risks replacing the old, where older people, in particular, were carelessly retired from working life. The new exclusion is narrower but deeper than the old one. It affects people who are both younger and further away from the labour market, and it focuses mainly on young people without education and foreign born without experience from the Swedish labour market. Many come to our country with long-awaited knowledge. But even more people have the highest level of education equivalent to primary education. And unemployment is three times as high among those who have only primary school in their luggage. If we don't do anything, a lot of them will never get in. If the forecasts are correct, then another 80 000 people will end up in permanent unemployment in our country. Outsiders will grow again with enormous social and economic consequences. We already see it in alarming criminal shadow societies. So we do not want Sweden to develop. Thresholds on the labour market must therefore be reduced. It's better to work with what you can than not get to work at all. Letting people into Sweden but not letting them into the labour market is simply irresponsible. Secondly, in an economic debate, someone must be the killer of joy and say as it is: our resources are limited, but our needs are endless. Strong public finances have been a prerequisite for Sweden's good development since the 1990s crisis. We learned from our mistakes and from a world that had changed faster than we did, and we worked together on difficult reforms. Well-managed public finances gave us the opportunity to parry the financial crisis. Well-managed public finances created international confidence in the Swedish economy. And the recognition of the need for well-managed public finances gave several finance ministers the authority to say no also to popular spending reforms. Mr President, I would like to The starting point for the Moderate Budget Movement is that the strength of the Swedish economy should be used to initiate important reforms and to equip us for the next crisis – the first because we want to, the second because we have to. We invest SEK 15 billion in reforms for more jobs and lower thresholds. We are expanding vocational education and training with 13,000 places and increasing the chances of jobs. We reduce dependency through clearer requirements and better incentives in Swedish social assistance systems. We make it more profitable to work for those with low incomes. We broaden our way into the labour market by developing the RUT deduction, reducing employers' contributions for young people and introducing a completely new form of employment. The basis for Sweden's prosperity and well-being is that we work, that we support ourselves and that we pay taxes so that it is enough for others as well. That principle shall apply even when everything else changes. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, the government's budget will not do that job. Firstly, in practice, it is already overplayed by reality. Several expenditures have become much greater, and other expenditure should therefore be reduced. The same RUT that the government, together with the Left Party, wants to start decommissioning, the government has just agreed with the Alliance to develop cautiously on the contrary. I can't find a strategy in the government's economic policy. Secondly, the government's budget leads to fewer people employed, fewer in the labour force, fewer older people working and less disposable income for six out of ten households. The Institute of Economics speaks of 15 000 – 20 000 fewer jobs with government policy. Our reforms will provide 37 000 new jobs with corresponding analyses. Mr President, I would like to Sweden's economic success is historically based on a peculiar combination of ingenious inventions, internationalized companies and many people's hard work, as well as a strong sense of justice and equal opportunities to succeed, to be judged on one's own merits. Of course, sometimes we too have lost our way. But astoundingly often, the story of class travel, equality and social mobility has made Sweden an open and dynamic society that does not rest on old layers. We can do that again. Sweden is nothing Downton Abbey. It is time to seek new inspiration from the major reforms and long-term successes of the 1990s crisis. Much of the best in Swedish politics would not have been possible without that crisis insight, without the ability to rethink and without sustained political compromises. I think we have to do it again. We must see what is no longer working well in our own time, put aside the prestige and implement reforms that those who live in Sweden in 20 and 30 years' time will say were courageous, forward-looking and absolutely necessary. Now is the time for Swedish politics to respond to the good reputation that we have so often had abroad.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-35	Mr President, I would like to It's all pretty clear. Ulf Kristersson spends about two minutes on his own budget and eight minutes talking about the situation in general. I was going to help Ulf Kristersson talk about his budget, because it is quite important in the current situation. We all know that Sweden is growing so fast. There'll be a lot more of us. At the same time, there are major demographic changes. Normally, this means that spending on welfare is increasing. But what the Moderates, together with the other bourgeois parties, do is propose great savings in welfare. You are proposing reduced expenditure, Ulf Kristersson, that is to say reduced expenditure ceilings. For next year, you are proposing to reduce expenditure ceilings by 16 billion and to 2019 as much as 74 billion. Of course it leads to savings. If we look at your budget, we can see in part how it will be done, but you do not report what the large, substantial savings will be in the future. We can see that you reject almost all efforts aimed at children. You reject better welfare for children and the fight against child poverty. You reject free medicines, eyeglass allowances, more workers on frits and increased standards of supply support. Of reforms of over 1.9 billion, you reject 1.8 billion to children. You are proposing savings of 4 billion, salaries equivalent to 8 000 nurses in health care, and you are rejecting any proposals to build away the housing shortage. But you can afford tax cuts. A sixth job tax credit is to be introduced. Yes, you call it something else, but the truth is it's a sixth job tax deduction. It gives a double tax cut to the one who earns 55 000 as to the one who earns 25 000. Now I would like to ask you, Ulf Kristersson, why it is more important to introduce a sixth job tax deduction than to combat child poverty and make investments aimed at children.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-41	Mr President, I would like to Ulla Andersson points to one important issue, namely demography. It says a lot about the Swedish challenges right now. Demography shows that more people are living longer and longer. Demographic developments mean that more people have to work to support people who live longer and longer. Basically, it is a fantastic development, but it risks not being at all as good for people who live longer if we do not at the same time have welfare resources. If you do not see the connections with more people having to work, more people have to work longer, more people have to enter the labour market, then there is no tax revenue to support those people who can no longer work. It is these fundamental economic links that I think you, Ulla Andersson, systematically ignore. Nothing is, with all due respect, simpler than proposing urgent expenditure. Needs are endless. The resources are limited. If we don't work the money, there's no money to distribute. If people do not choose to go to work, if businesses are not successful, if we do not sell on the world market, then there is no prosperity to distribute. We've known that for so long. We made the mistake in the '90s when we thought we could distribute money that did not yet exist. We recovered but not primarily because of the Left Party. I think it would make sense if even the Left Party understood that if we live longer, more people will have to work so that we can support each other.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-45	Mr President, I would like to It may be worth mentioning, Ulf Kristersson, that it was the Left Party that was involved in cleaning up the state finances after your reign. It was we who had to make the uncomfortable decisions after what you had done. You left behind a morasy in public finances. A little honesty, I think, is needed in the debate. Ulf Kristersson talks about the limited resources. I would therefore like to ask Ulf Kristersson: Why should the limited resources always be used to reduce taxes? Why should they not be used, for example, for children or young people? If we have to have more people working, is it not economically most effective to work preventively and ensure that the children living in Sweden today have good growing conditions and good conditions? I think that's reasonable. I hate child poverty and I want to use the political power I have to do everything I can to fight it. Ulf Kristersson works with the political power he has to do everything he can to prioritise tax cuts. There are always tax cuts before children, before health care and before what is now building a good welfare society. My question to Ulf Kristersson is why a sixth tax deduction is more important than the fight against child poverty and the fight for children's living conditions at all. I've got another idea. It's about a first-job deduction, as you call it, the sixth job tax deduction. Who's got 55 grand on their first job? I don't know if the Moderates live in a separate world, but I don't know anyone who has 55 000 in entry salary. Does Ulf Kristersson? Most of the people I know work in the trade, maybe in a hamburger restaurant, or in childcare. I can assure you that no one there has 55 000 crowns in entry salary. Rather, they have less than $5,000. Nor do I know anyone who rejects a job because he or she must first have reduced taxes, but wants to work and contribute. For Ulf Kristersson, taxes always come before children.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-50	Mr President, I would like to I think two things are obvious. One is that taxes are important if you want to finance common affairs. The second is that taxes affect people's willingness to work, taxes affect how much you get back, taxes affect what happens if you work more, work extra, taxes affect the ability to enter the labour market. In practice, everyone knows this. That's why we need to find a mix. Sweden has very high taxes. Sweden has higher taxes than many others, because we have higher common welfare ambitions. But if you have high taxes, you have to think about which taxes are problematic when it comes to working. Yes, it is problematic when young people have high taxation on low incomes and therefore find it difficult to get into their first job. Well, it is problematic when older people have high taxation that makes it not profitable to work for a while longer and improve our demographic situation. Such things are problematic. Let's be honest and face it. We can choose different tax levels, but that tax affects our willingness to work, that tax affects how many jobs are done, how many hours are worked, is with all due respect trivial knowledge. If you do not understand it, you will always land in the conclusion: raise the tax there, there, there and there, because I have new urgent reforms to implement. In practice, it ends in extremely high taxes. We've tried it before. We agreed in the '90s that it was a bad idea. We changed that. Now we're slowly on our way up again. That's a bad idea. Let's go back to the demographics. There is a reason why the Left Party neither wants nor can be included in the National Pensions Agreement: you do not understand the fundamental link in terms of what is needed for people to be able and want to work longer, thus ensuring that our pension system lasts, that more people work longer and that more people are involved in supporting pensioners, who also live longer. There are reasons why this is the case. I'm sure it's a good thing someone's in the desert crying out that everything's not perfect. I accept that. But it would be irresponsible now to spend the money we need to cope with demography.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-56	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by agreeing with some of what Mr Kristersson says. There are a lot of things there that are right and right. I also like the ambition expressed by Ulf Kristersson for joint responsibility. I believe that Sweden needs more cooperation and cooperation in a troubled world. This is the right direction, and it is also the attitude of the government to our political situation in Sweden. At the same time, it must be noted that when the Moderates present their economic policies, there is already much of a conclusion to what happens if they do as they suggest. It is the policy that has been implemented over eight years, with large tax cuts and widening gaps, and it has also led to a larger deficit in public finances. The innovation this time actually consists of the renaming of the flagship job tax deduction. It has been given a new name but in practice has the same focus: Anyone who earns the most also gets the most in tax reduction. This is to be financed, as Ulf Kristersson did, and so do the Moderates – with cuts. There won't be any raised teacher's wages. Not all housing investments are needed because of the housing shortage. Very much of the future investments that Sweden needs to be pushed forward with Moderate policies in order that tax cuts always have to go first. Why is there so little re-examination in Moderate economic policy?
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-60	Mr President, I would like to We spent quite a lot of our time in a government position on two fundamental things. One was to reduce the tax burden on ordinary income because Sweden is the world's best at taxing people who work in normal income situations. We do so with such a frenzy that no other democratic country can be compared to us. The second thing we did was to break exclusion through a combination of reforms that make it more profitable to work and a tight social security system, which you saw needed but did not dare to implement. I give you both things: you saw it needed, you pointed it out and got the problem, but you were unable to make the changes. These two things make Sweden much better equipped today than it was before. We are far from being flawless, but we are better equipped today than before. Then we see the need to move on. The big concern now is that we have high taxation on people who start working on low incomes. We are significantly higher in the taxation of low incomes than most comparable countries. We still have high taxation on older people who continue to work, and you want to make it even more expensive. To this we have a very small service sector in Sweden – a private service sector that could replace a traditional manufacturing sector that no longer exists in Sweden. All this you want to ignore and hope that people will jump directly from having almost no education at all to becoming engineers at Ericsson. It doesn't really work that way. We're saying the trip has to start somewhere. Getting into your first job is absolutely fundamental for many reasons, because it is the first job that creates the journey to the second and the third and to the job you want. It is the first job that creates experiences that allow you to show that you can work and be asked for by others. Today we deny a great many people the chance of this first job. It is underscored with massive force by the immigration we have today in Sweden, where many do not have that knowledge.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-68	Mr President, I would like to This is not how Ulf Kristersson describes it, that we believe that the least educated can suddenly become highly educated. But we believe that all people have the opportunity to take another step, and then another one and another. A person with a higher education degree can top it later in life. Those who only have primary school should also be allowed to enter upper secondary school. It is the fundamental thing to have a knowledge lift across the whole of Swedish society, for all groups. You leave behind a recruitment gap. A lot of jobs are emerging, but there are not people who can take them, because we have been careless with the education in Sweden. We have not dimensioned education in such a way that we can now cover the needs that exist in many areas. It's a big debt that Kristersson leaves behind. Then he boasts of his tightness in social security, with insurance and the like. At the same time, however, the cost increases that Kristersson is now highlighting were precisely those areas where he was responsible. You, Ulf Kristersson, were into this in your speech. It was humble and good. But it is about 17 billion for assistance and health insurance during the period that you were responsible for these issues. Now you're just saying, now the government has to take care of this! That is, of course, correct. That is what the government must do, and it is a work that has begun. It will be very important for Sweden in the long term. But we're not building it on the insurance idea. We are basing it on ideas on equality, because there are so many women who suffer ill in the labour market, on the working environment, which is in fact exactly the same, and on strengthening the interventions in health care and care, not least in terms of mental illness, because it is so much of the sick leave that is due to this very thing. But why did you have the chance to make efforts that actually work over the four years?
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-72	Mr President, I would like to I think that is a story that very few would agree with. I have three brief comments. The first is: We went from a total exclusion of 20 per cent – every fifth Swedish of working age lived entirely on social benefits – down to the lowest levels since the measurements began in the early 1990s. You saw the same problem, but you didn't do anything about it. We did things about this that seriously changed the alienation. It was an absolutely necessary start. Today there is more to do to change exclusion with many new ones in Sweden. The second is, you have to have ways in. Education is great, but training without work will not be enough. If you don't get a chance to get into your first job, you'll never get the chance to show what you can do. Without the first job, therefore, the second job will never exist, nor will it be the job you want. Explain one thing to me—it is small but very important in a country that has a very small private service sector: how can it be that one day you decide with the Left Party to phase out some of the RUT reforms, which have been successful, and start dismantling what gives a way into the labour market, and then just a few months later with the Alliance going in exactly the opposite direction? Which one is right, and which one is wrong? You're trying to sit on two chairs at the same time. You have no idea what strategy to choose. My third comment is this: it is very popular social democratic rhetoric to call it cuts when you do not stand up for the increases in expenditure that you propose and want to fund with increased taxes on labour. That is not the case. We say no to your increased taxes. We say no to a lot of your expenditure increases, because we do not believe that they are most beneficial to the Swedish economy.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-77	Mr President, I would like to October 2015 was the warmest month of October globally since the measurements began. Other months of the year have also broken record, and it may be that 2015 will be the warmest year since the measurements began in 1880. Climate change is here, and the situation is serious. It is serious not only for those states that will disappear when sea levels rise or for the areas where drought spread. It is serious for the conditions for a good life for future generations. Not only are we destroying animals and nature, but we are also building up huge costs that result from the changing climate and that today's children and their future children will have to deal with. In this serious situation, it feels as if the Moderates do not fully understand it. I have asked Ulf Kristersson in this House earlier what the Moderates really want and what their climate policy looks like in the future. I understand that it was difficult to come up with something in connection with the spring bill when we raised the issue earlier. But now the Moderates have had plenty of time to show what their proposals for the climate look like. In the Moderates' draft budget, their climate policy has now become increasingly clear. The solution for the future is to cut substantially in the climate aid and remove the Swedish climate challenge. With Ulf Kristersson's earlier fine words, I had hoped for at least climate-governing taxes that steer away from fossil energy, but even there is the Moderates' proposal to say no to the government's increase in energy tax, which clearly steers away from increased emissions. Does Ulf Kristersson think that the Moderates are sending the right signal to reach as ambitious agreements as possible at the climate summit with the policy now contained in the Moderates' draft budget?
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-82	Mr President, I would like to Yeah, we've had this conversation before. We always land in almost the same basic question. What are the basic prerequisites for pursuing a serious climate policy? Is it a policy that benefits new technology, that benefits growth and that benefits the companies that invest in new solutions? Or is it a policy which essentially governs and is sceptical about the fundamental functioning of the market economy? I think that's the last one. If you do not start at that end, you will never be able to have a situation where more countries are involved and where more companies are making innovations that benefit our common environment. My wise colleague Emil Källström, who sits here when we discuss, usually points out that tax exchange means that you are prepared to both increase taxes on things that you think are harmful and compensate with reduced taxes on things you want to see instead. You, along with other red-green parties, tend to find a tax increase for almost every problem. It is not a policy that we believe works in the long term. That is not where the solutions will be. Furthermore, we do not believe that the major challenges lie in making hugely expensive efforts in Sweden at the margin if we can contribute to other solutions that have a greater impact elsewhere. I think you are staring blind at doing things only in Sweden. I am convinced that sound environmental policy must start with market economy mechanisms. It must begin with the instruments that we know work in many other areas. If you do not start at that end, you will, on the contrary, damage the environment in the long term.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-86	Mr President, I would like to I welcome once again Ulf Kristersson's positive response to the climate challenges, but I still note that the very things that Ulf Kristersson says he wants to implement are missing from the Moderates' draft budget. There is not the policy that he in this House says he wants. On the other hand, I agree that we must have what benefits new technologies. That is where we see that much of the answers to the future challenges exist. So there is a lot that we agree with. As far as the basic functioning of the market is concerned, we also agree that we must have instruments that give a positive direction to this policy. I can understand the ideological differences that make the Moderates have other proposals regarding the tax system. It is fundamentally good for politics and social development that there are different solutions, but I miss that precisely in the climate area. I find it difficult to see what the ideological reason is for the Moderates to clearly oppose taxes that steer away from increased emissions and offensive efforts on the climate. The fact that the government would have a one-sided focus on just one of the problems is also not true. We invest in ruling taxes in Sweden, but we also invest in, for example, the UN's green climate fund abroad. I wonder now whether the Moderates seriously believe that the market itself will solve the challenge of significantly reducing greenhouse gas emissions. There is no historical evidence of this. Or is the Moderate analysis that there is no need for further action to stem climate change?
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-91	Mr President, I would like to No, we do not believe that there are no environmental challenges – of course not. It's not like we've done what we're supposed to do. Nor is it the case that Sweden has done internationally what we could get other countries to do. We see a number of good signs in that direction right now, and there is a major conference coming very soon that points in that direction. I think the fundamental concern is that you, Janine Alm Ericson, consistently put yourself in a kind of left-wing analysis of these issues. I find it very difficult to understand why you cannot take on these basic ideas, for which I think there is really nutrition in you too. It is about the fact that it is work, technology, innovation and the market economy, this kind of issue, which must also be the basis for a sound environmental policy. You have systematically placed yourself in a position where you run politics to the left in Sweden. That policy has never benefited technological development. It has never benefited economic development. If this is not in place, the environment will not benefit from it.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-94	Mr President, I would like to In the Swedish Democrats' budget motion, we create a completely unique budget space. This is mainly achieved through substantial savings in the areas of migration and integration, i.e. the two items of expenditure that have been allowed to run under both red and blue governments. No one will question what the Swedish democrats have been pointing out for a long time, that it is an extremely costly policy that has reached the end of the road. In a specific immigration policy motion, we are presenting several necessary proposals to control the situation. The single most important thing, of course, is to close the border on asylum seekers from another EU country. There is no reason whatsoever for Sweden to handle an asylum case if the asylum seeker is in Denmark or Germany, for example, the two countries from which almost all asylum seekers come. There's no war there. There's hardly any famine. There is no political oppression. And absolutely no one is the servant of the complete collapse of the Swedish state. Close the line! Introduce stricter supply requirements for family migrants and temporary residence permits without exception. That would be a good start. A tip for the parties that are part of the so-called migration policy agreement is: please take our immigration movement with you to your next meeting. Then you have something to start working from outside. Since, certainly with a snail's speed and determination, you are slowly but surely beginning to implement the measures that we have long advocated, we obviously cannot be completely cycling – is it not? In this exercise, you have 45 concrete proposals to overcome a complex situation. But, Mr President, the sad thing about it is what we cannot achieve. I would have liked to have stood here and talked about how we say 'no' to the government's heavy tax shock, how we say 'no' to the increase in petrol taxes for ordinary commuters and rural people, how we say 'no' to the severely deteriorating conditions in terms of RUT and ROT deductions, popular reforms that have done black jobs white and have been appreciated by ordinary people, or how we say 'no' to a higher wage tax for the elderly who voluntarily choose to remain in the labour market – all the forecasts say we should work more than less. I would have liked to have talked about how we say no to Sweden, which already has the second highest marginal tax in the world, to receive an even higher marginal tax and, of course, also how we say no to the negligent attempts to tax Swedish nuclear energy. I would also like to talk about our efforts for the children and families of young children. These include, for example, reducing children's groups, improving the quality of food, and preventing pre-school staff from having to leave the day of the withdrawal so that you can actually afford to stay at home during illness. I would have liked to talk about how we want to employ more staff, of course with full funding from the state. I would have liked to talk about our efforts at school, where we implement a proper career ladder so that we can keep the really good teachers, so that they do not disappear anywhere else. I would have liked to talk about how we can create more ways into the teaching profession, even for those without regular teacher ID, how we can hire more around staff so that the teacher can focus on being just a teacher and nothing else and on how we can save several of the closed-down rural schools. We also have a very comprehensive industrial programme, focusing on the supply of skills, taxation and energy. We want to increase the study grants for those who choose to study to a shortage profession, while we invest very much in what is called technology college, where the companies together with the municipality are responsible for the education not least by secondary engineers. The lack of skills is excruciating even now and will, from all forecasts, be even more serious in the future, simply because we are not training for the needs of the labour market. We want to reduce the tax on server halls and abolish the property tax on industrial plots. Instead, we want the municipality to charge a municipal fee for industrial plots. In this way, of course, incentives are created to speed up the licensing process and the like. With other budgetary priorities, we could also have made improvements for the country's dairy and meat farmers. We want to increase the refund of fuel tax so that Sweden ends up in the approximate tax parlia ment with our closest competitor, our neighbouring country Denmark. We want to introduce a special animal welfare premium to compensate farmers for the higher cost that they have, as a result of perhaps the most stringent animal protection in the world – which we want to retain. I would have liked to have talked more about all this, Mr President, and all this could have become a reality. Unfortunately, however, we will not be able to afford these urgent efforts, because there are seven other parties in this House who seem to find it infinitely difficult to see the reality of what it is. And surely the person who has painted himself into a corner feels that it is difficult to get out of there. The current immigration policy removes the surplus target in practice, albeit not formally. With current immigration, the expenditure ceiling will be broken as early as 2016, i.e. the year in which the government's budget is supposed to take effect. We have heard in the past how the so-called 'krona-for-krona' principle does not apply to expenditure that can be linked to immigration policy. Instead, you choose to borrow money. Then you may manage for the day, but you shoot the problems ahead of you on future generations. We have seen how the National Debt Office postpones its forecasts, because the Migration Board has become the epicentre of politics, and how this has been received negatively by the bond market, i.e. that it becomes more expensive to borrow. We have read how the Swedish Financial Control Agency's latest forecast goes out and warns that public deficits are expected to be even higher than previously expected, despite strong tax increases by the government. Nevertheless, the deficits are even higher than we previously thought. We have seen a government which, just the days after it voted on its ordinary amending budget, is presenting an additional amending budget which provides even more money for immigration and again finances it through loans. But let me be clear: you have not been given the mandate to pledge future generations of Swedes to finance your insane policy! Mr President, I would like to The situation is urgent. We need to close the borders and have a zero vision for asylum immigration for the foreseeable future. I support the reservations of the Swedish Democrats 2 and 7. I would also like to point out that, in the event that our own reservations would fall at this afternoon's vote, we will support reservations 1 and 6. It is not because the Moderates have too well thought-out economic policies, because they do not, unfortunately, have them, but to give the alliance parties another chance to bring down this government.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-113	Mr President, I would like to You could also have told us, Oscar Sjöstedt, how the Swedish democrats have voted against the increase in unemployment funds, how you have said no to abolish phase 3, how you say no to increased bank tax and how you save on long-term illness. Oscar Sjöstedt could also have said that the Swedish Democrats always give the highest priority in tax cuts to those who serve the best. He could have told us that a dinner with venture capitalists means that the Swedish Democrats are easily for sale and change the political attitude and thus now think that profits in welfare are completely okay as long as they go to an already wealthy venture capitalist. Oscar Sjöstedt could also have told us that the Swedish Democrats are making huge savings in this budget. It is the salaries of 163 000 nurses, 66 000 child care workers and 61 000 carers who disappear if your budget were to go through. These are numbers that LO has calculated. It is huge savings you are proposing in welfare – or savings are, more accurately, far too thin a word in this context. It is rather a massacre of Swedish welfare that you advocate. My image and that of most others is that more and not fewer employees are needed in welfare. Today, too many elderly people do not get the care they need. The resources are not enough. Staff must be rushing something cruel. The fact that children groups in preschool and at friti s are large is well known, as is the fact that health care resources are too scarce. In Gävle municipality, for example, your proposal for a state budget means that one third of the budget for care and the elderly disappears. Many nurses and carers lose their jobs there and many elderly and disabled people get caught.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-120	Mr President, I would like to Let us begin with the fact that the Swedish Democrats absolutely do not make any savings in welfare. On the other hand, we are making substantial savings on the costs of migration and integration and on immigration-related costs. Surely we have all taken part in the rather embarrassing campaign that the Landsorganisation has conducted. The result was that the Swedish Democrats went forward as the single largest party among LO voters the other day in a Sifo survey. We understand that the government and its support parties choose to call the costs that are actually immigration costs and go directly to immigration welfare. It has been understood that Swedish taxpayers are actually getting tired of funding this crazy policy. When the Swedish Democrats go out and cut the costs of immigration, you say that we cut in welfare. I do not believe, Ulla Andersson, that the majority of Swedish people associate immigration costs with welfare costs. They think it's two different things. I can almost guarantee that this is the case. So we are not cutting into welfare; we are saving on immigration costs, and I think most people understand that. We have all been clear about the ideological drive of the Left Party towards business. It is precisely an ideological drive. There is no one who thinks that welfare companies should be able to make over-profits or reduce quality so that people have it bad. We will have a good and sensible functioning welfare in Sweden. Everyone thinks so. But the Left Party has an ideological drive towards enterprise and hates profit in all its forms. The Left Party wants a public monopoly, preferably in all activities. There's supposed to be an executor. A choice is to be made. We don't want it that way. I love entrepreneurship, choice and competition. We're going to have nice and tough rules for those who operate there, and then I want entrepreneurship.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-128	Mr President, I would like to I still do not think that Oscar Sjöstedt has answered my question: What do the Swedish Democrats have against Swedish welfare and its superiors? In the table on p. 157 in their budget, one can very clearly see how they cut into the money for municipalities and county councils, that is, money to go to children's preschool and school, money to go to grandma's care and money to actually go to health care places and a good health care for the country's residents. This is where the Swedish Democrats cut, straight through and systematically, and it corresponds to the salaries of over 200 000 employees. That is what their budget is all about. Nor does Oscar Sjöstedt answer why they have said no to abolish phase 3, why they should save money on long-term ills or why they always benefit people with the highest income. I also think it would be appropriate for the Swedish democrats to explain how one day in the election movement can say that greed in Swedish welfare should disappear and then stand here and defend greed in Swedish welfare just because they have been invited to good dinners and good brandy. The Swedish Democrats are a party that seems to be for sale. The person who pays gets what it wants. Is that how you should interpret the policy of the Swedish Democrats, Oscar Sjöstedt?
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-133	Mr President, I would like to But please Ulla Andersson, slug the crap about brandy here and there! It's just ridiculous. I meet a lot of people. We usually have coffee together. Either I meet them in Parliament or I meet them somewhere else. I meet a lot of people from companies and employers' organisations. We're not drinking. Get your shit together! In fact, our position on welfare gains is exactly the same as that on which we went to elections. We presented this at our election conference in March 2014. We made a position of principle. It's the same thing now. I hope that can be clarified even more. I will stand up for freedom of choice and for the approximately 400 000 customers who choose it, which the Left Party wants to relegate to a public monopoly. I will stand up for their right to freedom of choice. I will certainly not stand up for the entrepreneur's right to make profits at the expense of quality – never ever. These should be clear quality requirements for both private and public options. It should certainly not be possible to make substantial profits at the expense of lower quality. Not in my world. On the other hand, I want to maintain freedom of choice in welfare. The Left Party must understand how to actually read a budget. That also applies to LO, by all means. One cannot look at a series and draw far-reaching conclusions from it. You have to understand the context. I say again that we do not cut down a single crown on welfare. On the contrary, we are investing heavily in welfare. However, we are cutting the costs of immigration, precisely in order to be able to invest in welfare. In order to guarantee prosperity, we choose to save on immigration. That is clear in our budget for everyone who reads it properly and does not read it with left-wing glasses.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-138	Mr President, I would like to These are times of unrest in Sweden and in Europe. Last week we were all reached by the very sad images of a Paris under attack. Yesterday we saw Turkey shooting down a Russian fighter plane. There is a legitimate concern about how this will affect our Europe and our Sweden. Yesterday we were also reached by the government parties' announcement of relatively drastic austerity in Swedish migration policy. It is natural that we are currently putting a lot of focus on these issues of our safety and how far our possibilities of providing shelter to people on the run are sufficient. But it is also important that, despite the concerns here and now, we manage to lift our eyes and see the reform needs that Sweden has in relation to social problems that deserve attention and political determination. Now is the time to build Sweden strong with a housing and labour market that in many ways no longer works and a business environment where we must take further steps to make it easier for the job creators. Whether it's about the simple first jobs or the most productive and qualified jobs, Sweden needs initiative and achieving. Mr President, I would like to Everyone knows that the Center Party stands up for openness and defends the freedom of movement that served Europe so well. Our continent knows all too well what happens if we join the borders of the nation states. But the Center Party also leads many municipalities around Sweden. We take an enormous responsibility to make the Swedish reception of refugees work in practice. Allow me now, Mr President, to thank all those municipal politicians, officials, social secretaries, teachers and many others who are doing great work at this time, far beyond what can be expected of them. This responsibility also makes the Center Party a realistic and pragmatic party. There is time for polemics and conflict, but I believe that the Swedish people expect from their elected representatives that we face these difficult challenges and try to find broad political solutions. After the government's announcement yesterday, we will sit down and analyse the proposals presented by the government. I believe that the seriousness of the situation demands precisely that of us. Here too, however, it is important to be able to think more than one thought at a time. Although the war in Syria and other things that force people to flee to Sweden would be resolved tomorrow, it will be a great challenge to adapt the systems to enable more people to create a place in society, enter the labour market and get their first home. We must respond to this while making adjustments and ensuring that the costs of integration and migration do not go unchecked. Swedish migration and integration policies must be better and cheaper. We have presented tough but necessary proposals to reduce the costs of asylum homes and unaccompanied refugee children and young people, among other things. It is clear that more needs to be done. The basis of a successful integration policy is more ways into work. For those who can and want it should be possible to work from the first day already as an asylum seeker. This must be made easier than today, and it must apply to everyone from day one. We all agree that validation of foreign degrees and training should go faster than today. Fortunately, we also have a broad agreement to open up to more simple jobs by extending the RUT deduction, which is a good first step, and by opening up the YA jobs even to companies that have not signed collective agreements. It is also a good first step. But there's got to be a lot more. For too long, the Swedish labour market has been characterised by rigidity and a division between insiders and outsiders. Those on the inside stress, forced to work overtime and extra, while on the outside at all they do not get in a foot. The reason is high thresholds and laws and rules that have long since passed the best before date. This is not a new problem, but it is flashed in a situation where we will now be able to cope with the tasks in a very short time and make room for thousands of new people who want to make a contribution to the Swedish labour market. If it is something that international assessors, such as the OECD, say when they evaluate the Swedish labour market and the Swedish economy, it is modernising and liberalising the labour market. Then more jobs will be created. I'll give you another chance. It is about modernising labour law for flexibility and a modern security that allows mobility, does not create lock-in. It is also about modernising and improving the tools available for lifelong learning. We have to do both. Sweden has the lowest proportion of easy jobs in the OECD area. We have to deal with that. At the same time, we must be able to continue to rake the manegen and lay the foundations for the highly productive and high-quality jobs that generate tax revenue directly and indirectly. Mr President, I would like to The basis for this well-functioning labour market as well as the basis for tax-funded welfare is that job creators, not least in small and growing companies, are given the best opportunities to expand and employ. I am proud to belong to a party that did not back off a millimeter when the government raised the tax on young people's jobs by SEK 16 billion. I am proud to present a budget option in which we completely lift the employers' contributions for the small business owner who is going to make his first job. So we lower the thresholds to get significantly more jobs in small and growing companies. I am also pleased to be able to present a budget in which we take further steps to create jobs throughout the country, propose concrete measures to face the milk crisis that is still an effect of the economic warfare of the EU and Russia, although many have stopped talking about it. Crowding the manage, getting more jobs to grow around the country, must remain the main priority of politics. That's just how we lay the foundation for a strong Sweden in the long term. Mr President, I would like to Another challenge that does not disappear either because we stop talking about it is the environmental and climate issue. We need to shift our society in a more sustainable direction, and to do so requires economic development and innovation. We must therefore achieve a policy that steers away from emissions and environmental toxins, while at the same time enabling a boost to entrepreneurship and job creation. There is a name for this: green tax exchange. If you increase the tax on environmental damage and use the space to lower the tax on jobs and entrepreneurship, it is good both for the environment and for jobs. Since the Green Party's emphasis on Social Democrats' and Left Party's tax promotion policy on jobs and entrepreneurship, the Center Party is alone in Swedish politics to defend this idea. We see an opportunity to increase environmental taxes in the next four years by a total of just over SEK 20 billion. This is, for example, a tax on certain dangerous chemicals. We are removing a number of exemptions from carbon tax. And we are proposing a tax on incineration and waste. Every penny these taxes bring back to society in the form of reduced taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. I have mentioned how we relieve the small business owner of the employer's contribution for the first job. However, this tax exchange package also includes, for example, an improved investor deduction to make it easier for small and growing companies to attract capital to hire and expand. We lower and simplify the tax on those fast-growing companies that want to attract excellence from Sweden and from around the world using employee options. We're lowering marginal taxes to bring about more hours worked. And we lower taxes for older people who work so that more people stay longer in work. We need a boost in Swedish entrepreneurship. We need to take further steps in environmental work. With green tax exchange we get both. Mr President, I would like to I commend the Center Party's reservations 3 and 8. These reservations are the parliamentary impression of our budget exercise Sweden's job creation budget. We present a document at Parliament's table that keeps job creation absolutely highest from the first to the last page, because no matter what societal challenge we see – whether it's about our security, about securing future welfare, about strengthening the education system – is the foundation that we achieve more tax revenues through more people working in new and growing companies.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-156	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by saying that it was a fine introduction to Emil Källström's speech. In many parts we see the same problem. But it is also interesting that he notes that after eight years with a government that the Center Party has been involved in, we do not have a functioning housing and labour market today. That is also something I can agree with. The government's budget now increases the energy tax to reduce climate emissions in combination with several other efforts on the climate, and this is important. Sweden must switch to renewables and reduce fossil emissions at a rapid pace. The Center Party usually says they're a green voice. Although there are some suggestions that may be interesting in the Centre Party's draft budget, the timetables may be questionable in some cases. However, that Center Party has been able to take a direct stand on, and which they choose to delete, is the energy tax increase proposed by the government. In a situation where there is a great need for measures that quickly reduce emissions and where there is also a great need for investments in climate, school and jobs, it still becomes a no. I would like to ask the Center Party why it is so important to stop precisely the tax change in the government's proposal that provides the most climate benefit.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-160	Mr President, I would like to After Ulf Kristersson called me wise and Janine Alm Ericson now says that I had an interesting introduction, I have to say that that part of the debate has been very favorable so far. You wonder what comes after this. Janine Alm Ericson raises the very important issue of green tax exchange, and a major part of my speech was on this particular issue. The important thing here is to do both, to ensure that tax increases do not become tax increases on everything. What the Green Party does is it does raise some environmental taxes. Janine Alm Ericson mentions a few. But the stack of environmental tax increases is completely overshadowed by taxes that are raised on jobs and entrepreneurship. 80% of Janine Alm Ericson's tax increases are at work and at entrepreneurship t – what we need more of. 10 percent of Janine Alm Ericson's tax increases are on environmentally damaging activities. So there will be no green tax change. The share of environmental taxes in Janin e Alm Ericson's tax mix is becoming smaller as she increases taxes on everything else much more. This is where you have to put strength behind the words. The Green Party has unfortunately failed on a point-by-point basis in its short time in government. As we have noted, the fine words about green tax exchange are over. We also see how the Green Party and the Swedish Government have now acted in Brussels to lower the emission reduction requirements that we have in the car industry. Your own party congresses in the European Parliament stand and bark at the Swedish government nobody because Sweden has so much ambition in the field of environmental work. It's not me you should be criticizing. It is your own government that is worrying so far.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-165	Mr President, I would like to I can see that Emil Källström does not really answer the question. However, it is quite fascinating that he manages to keep such a high tail in terms of the green tax shift, because the share of environmental taxes in the total tax does not increase in the Center Party's proposal either, which I find a little strange. Since we're talking about different parts, it would have been nice if the Center Party had just said no to environmental taxes. But there is also a combination of large cuts in the climate and the environment in their draft budget. There is a list of the Center Party's proposals for grants called General Environment and Nature Conservation. There are some small bets. But there are reductions at the Environmental Protection Agency, reductions in environmental monitoring, reductions in measures for valuable nature and reductions in clean-up and restoration of contaminated areas, and the list can continue. Only in this sub-area of the budget, the Centre Party's cut in the environment amounts to 1.88 billion in 2016 alone. Nevertheless, I had a weak hope that the Center Party actually cared and that other parties in the Alliance were holding back. So what I wonder is whether this is what the level of ambition of the Center Party looks like and has looked like all along and who has been the green voice of the Alliance.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-169	Mr President, I would like to With regard to the increase in taxes on petrol and diesel by the Green Party and the government, it is simply the case that if you say something in the election movement you have to stand for it. I and the Center Party said in the election campaign: we have increased taxes on petrol and diesel, but right now there are other environmental taxes that stand ahead in the queue. These are the ones I preferred in my speech. Incidentally, we could hear the Minister for Finance saying exactly the same thing. Some of us stand by what was a year ago, others do not. That's the answer to the question, so we can handle it. No one is distrusting the Green Party's ability to raise funds to the right and left and to dupe things called environmental initiatives. Together, there will be a lot of money. It is expensive and must be financed by increasing the tax on young people's jobs and on small businesses throughout the country. No one doubts the ability of the Green Party to do this. What I doubt is the ability of the Green Party to make a difference. We have seen how what should be the underlying principle of Swedish environmental policy, the green tax shift, has been completely betrayed by the Green Party and the government. We also see that when we really are in sharp negotiations in Brussels about, for example, the emissions of cars, the Swedish Government is at the lowest possible level so that it is even criticised by its own environmental-partisan MEPs. When it really is, the Green Party does not deliver. Environmental policy is not about putting all and nothing into action, that is to say small-scale initiatives which, on the whole, make little difference. What we need is the basic rules of the game that make it all the time a little more favorable to create jobs and invest and a little less favourable to shit the environment. It's called green tax exchange. Once we agreed on this. Now it's just the Center Party that's standing.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-174	Mr President, I would like to Now the fine words are over, Emil Källström. You are the only person I know who is proud to pursue an inefficient economic policy, which is exactly what you are doing. You are proud to say no to the abolition of the reduced social security contribution for young people. It is a reform which all, even now your bourgeois alliance friends, reject as an ineffective economic measure. The reform has cost about 1 million per job. Are you also proud to represent the bourgeois party that makes the greatest savings on health care in the budget? Are you proud that you are making huge savings in school, education and labour market policies? The savings in health care that you propose correspond to the salaries of 12 000 nurses or 18 000 nurses. That says quite a lot about your economic policy at the moment. In addition to saving a lot of money on health care, you also save on housing investments. Your entry here seems to be that the market solves everything. As I have interpreted your budget option, you are also the party that saves the most on children. You say 'no' to virtually all the reforms aimed at children's conditions or at combating child poverty. You say no to the reduction in the size of the pre-school group, no to the increase in the number of people employed in leisure centres, no to free medicines for children and no to the increase in the standard of child support. You say no to social services' work for vulnerable children, and you say no to free summer holiday activities for children. All the things that systematically focus on children's living conditions and the fight against child poverty, you say no to. Are you proud of that, Emil Källström?
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-180	Mr President, I would like to When a left-wing party accuses me of ineffective economic policy, that is a compliment. Ulla Andersson makes and has long made a mistake in her rhetoric. Just because you don't raise a grant doesn't mean you're saving money. If Ulla Andersson presents a budget and I present a budget where I borrow 90 billion extra and put it on the school, for example, Ulla Andersson's budget with Ulla Andersson's logic means a saving with the same amount. Just because you don't raise doesn't mean you're saving. We have to start from the reality when we present our proposals. We should at least start from the reality of our policy, and I and the Center Party will continue to do so. We're not saving. What we are doing, however, is saying no to the massive tax increases on jobs and entrepreneurship by the left-wing parties. This means that year one has a little less money to spend. That's it. But in the long term, the most important thing is for children, school, care and the welfare activities that we hold so high that more people pay primarily municipal and county tax, that more go to work. The most important thing in order to be able to invest in the school farms that are now receiving a special investment in a number of millions is that the taxpayers in the municipalities will be as many as possible and that the number of hours worked will be as large as possible. It is Sweden's job creator's budget, the budget I put on Parliament's table, that secures welfare in the long term. No one distrusts the Left Party's ability to raise taxes on everything and then scatter the money through contributions to the right and left. However, it is a short-term policy, because it means that fewer people go to work. According to the Institute for Economic Development, there will be 21,000 fewer jobs with the budget supported by the Left Party. Then there will be no welfare.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-187	Mr President, I would like to I say that it is an inefficient economic policy to spend 15 billion on a reform that failed completely during your reign, Emil Källström. It's time to admit it. Your alliance friends have done it. None of them still have that reform. These 15 billion can be used for better economic reform. For example, they can be used to hire more people who train the people who come here. They can be used for school initiatives that will allow us to develop as a country in the future. They can be used to give older people better care. There are enough savings in your budget. Even though Sweden is growing and we are becoming more, you are not raising the funding. There will be more children in preschool. We are investing in reducing the size of children's groups, but you are not spending an extra penny on preschool children. Sure, you both save and reject bets. However, I say that it is consistently savings, because welfare needs more resources. This applies not least after your eight years of government power when tax revenues per capita became smaller and smaller. The population grew, but we got less resources for welfare in relation to it. This has consequences. It is by providing good conditions in preschool and school that we give people the opportunity and good conditions to develop and contribute to social development. You are rejecting almost all these reforms. You reject reforms that allow parents with a calm stomach to go to work because they know that the children will be better off at preschool than they had before. You reject reforms that mean that low-wage parents do not have to worry about not being able to afford medicines if their children get sick. You reject reforms that are important to people in their daily lives, but you are throwing 15 billion into a reform that everyone has condemned.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-194	Mr President, I would like to The budget that the Left Party has contributed to producing probably sets a new Swedish record in small pots that will go to various worthy purposes. When the money is spent on all municipalities and county councils in the country, there will be very little money. If you benefit 50 million to schoolyards and other small pots of 280 municipalities and 27 county councils, it will not be much money. In addition, it is a huge waste of resources, because on both sides of these small pots there are government and municipal officials who are going to apply for this money. Many small municipalities around the country also do not have the administrative resources to apply for this money. It is an inefficient way of working that does not benefit children in preschool or the elderly in the retirement home. What municipalities need is long-term resources so that they can plan and make the necessary employment and investment. There's no shortcut. It's about rakeping the mane so that the municipalities get more money in tax revenue by more people working. Then they can plan because there is a long-term perspective in it. People who go to work and pay taxes in a municipality will probably do so next year. This security is certainly not in the time-limited small duttposter referred to by Ulla Andersson. We're not doing the easy thing. We're doing the hard thing. We're doing the hard thing because it's right. The hard part is to rake the manage so that the jobs grow by themselves va in small and growing companies. That is why we are presenting Sweden's job creation budget.
i-8LBU6qnsAGDnJMUQFx6z3G	Mr President, I would like to I would first like to express my support for the Liberals' reservations 4 and 9. We are in the midst of a refugee crisis, but we must remember that it is above all a crisis for the people who are on the run. It is strenuous for Swedish society and for the European reception system, but in the debate we must never forget that it is above all those who are fleeing war and persecution that are in crisis. As I said, we have a strained situation in the Swedish reception of refugees, and I like Emil Källström to thank the people who work hard every day. Sometimes we bark at our authorities and think they are not doing well, but let us remind ourselves that there are officials at the Migration Agency who work very long working days to give people who have fled persecution a decent start in Sweden. Let us remember all the social secretaries and people in school who are trying to make sure that Sweden is able to cope with this situation. They're worth a big thank-you. When we concluded the migration agreement, we Liberals said that we believe we will have to do more. It's still there. We will need more deals and more joint responsibility, and we are prepared to take responsibility. Let us remind ourselves of two things. One is that in the short term this is strenuous for the Swedish economy and society, but at a time when developments in Europe are constantly moving in a more restrictive direction, we should remember that it is actually quite nice to live in a country that people are fleeing to instead of fleeing from. The second, which I intend to continue to point out, is that in the long term it will be good for Sweden that people of working age come here and help build Sweden stronger. But we have a great deal of effort ahead of us in the coming years. I am concerned that we have a finance minister who, when she is going to describe responsibility in this situation, describes reality in a way that allows us to look in another direction, a bit like an illusionist like Joe Labero. What did Magdalena Andersson say just over a year ago? Then she described the Swedish economy like this: It is empty barns, and the table is laid off – yes, there is hardly any table left. But a few months ago the Swedish people and I could hear Magdalena Andersson tell us that we have a good economy in Sweden, so good that we now have the opportunity to borrow. I have the same picture; we have very healthy public finances. But I am impressed, because Magdalena Andersson must be the world's best in economic policy. From the time the table was gone, after four months and 28 days with a Social Democratic-Left Party budget, we have got the table back. Now it is well-stocked, and we can afford to borrow.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-207	It is probably only Monica Green who can believe such a statement of reality, Mr President. It raises concern, not just because I can ralli over it in the speaker's chair. It raises concern because we have a concern if we do not have a government that accurately describes economic development. While we need to implement reforms to solve the urgent challenges we face, we must not lose sight of them, because we need major reforms of Sweden to meet the challenge we are now facing. The Liberals have presented a budget motion that is responsible and funded. There we point out what reforms Sweden needs. We want to scrap the government's unemployment target and instead introduce a job case. Why? Because it leads the policy right to think about how new jobs will develop and employment will increase. I am very afraid that an unemployment target will lead the policy wrong in the sense that we will come back to a situation where people are sick-listed or retired early. There is a clear difference here. There is also a clear difference in the challenges we see. We must ensure that thresholds are lowered into the Swedish labour market. I will honestly say that some of what the government is doing in terms of supplementary training and validation of education for people from other countries is good. But that will not be enough in a situation where there will be people who need to get into the Swedish labour market. Liberals present a budget that deals with investment in knowledge, ten-year primary school and increased teacher salaries. We also want to see a nationalisation of the school. The government sees this picture of reality and this problem. It even spends half a billion SEK on better collaboration between the municipality and the state. Yes, that may be a good thing, but basically we need greater government responsibility for the school in order to get equivalence across the country. I listened to Gustav Fridolin before he became Minister of Education. Then he said that we have too much reform in Sweden and that it is moving too fast. I agreed with that and felt the feeling that was in the teacher rooms around Sweden that there was a lot going on when the People's Party ruled the Ministry of Education at the time. Now that I am going to the teachers' rooms, I am rather asked: Is there a minister of education at all? There has been a complete stop to reform in this area. Unfortunately, Gustav Fridolin has fulfilled his election promise there. If we are going to meet the urgent challenges in the longer term, it is about having a new housing policy where we dare to bring about liberalisation and say: What is the problem – why is it not being built in our country? Why have we created a properly regulated market that takes a long time and is expensive to build? Politicians have created a system where it is almost impossible to find new housing. Then the government turns on the big drum and answers that it is a huge investment in housing construction, and so we talk about some building subsidies. Let us ask the operators who are going to build the houses. NCC and Skanska don't believe that. The real estate owners, who are going to rent out the apartments, don't believe that either. But the government believes it. To be honest, the amount of building subsidies that will now have such a marginal impact that the government has not even raised its own target for housing after the decision was taken. There's a lot more to it. Liberals believe that we need to take a comprehensive approach to the tax system. We cannot have a tax system where we tax jobs hard and where we raise marginal taxes, which are already among the highest in the world, so that they become the world's highest. It is wrong to say to those who earn a little less in Sweden: You should pay higher taxes than in other countries. It is wrong to think that we can solve the challenge we face with greatly increased taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. We need to transfer and tax what is bad more. Increase environmental taxes, charge taxes where they do the least damage! I believe that we will have to increase VAT in the coming years. Review housing taxation, but find room to lower taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship! That is the prerequisite for achieving the job goal that we in the Liberals have pointed out. We have the same picture as the government; more tax money is needed for municipalities and states. But we have a fundamental difference in the way things are to be done. Liberals want more taxpayers, that is, more people who go to work and pay taxes. The answer to every challenge in a society cannot always be to raise taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. It sounds good at the square meetings, where you can stand and say: Look, the Liberals and the other alliance parties say no to the tax increases and our investments. But there's a reason why we do it. We think it is better to find a tax system that stimulates people to work and start businesses, not the other way round. When we say no to much of the government's efforts that we do not believe in, this policy enables us to give priority to those people who need welfare most. Liberals are proposing an increase in the housing allowance for pensioners who are larger than the government. It is the most accurate way of helping pensioners and elderly people with the least resources. We put forward special efforts on vulnerable children, about which we talk far too rarely in decision - making congregations. It is their upbringing that we as politicians decide that the state or the municipality should take responsibility for. Although we are making great efforts in Sweden's social services and at our different homes for children and young people, we cannot say that we are doing this in a really good way. We also have a special effort to ensure that older people in retirement homes have the opportunity to eat cooked food. For me who is not in the situation that I am dependent on others, it may not sound like such a big thing, but having an opportunity as an elderly person to smell food cooked in the home is ultimately a matter of dignity. We manage these efforts because we dare to say no to much of what the government is doing. We are in a time where Sweden needs leadership and responsibility. We have a government that has unfortunately proved to be what we warned about before the elections; it is unprepared, has not talked itself together and really has no idea what it wants with Sweden. When you're in that situation, you're gonna have to betray the electoral promises on a regular basis, and you have no idea of long-term reforms. That is why we Liberals are now preparing to take over again together with the Alliance on the day we meet the voters. But then we'll be prepared, and that's a crucial difference. In between, and here I want to be clear, Mr President, we Liberals will nevertheless be prepared to take responsibility for decisions that we believe are important for Sweden in the longer term. We are prepared to take responsibility for the migration situation we have, and we are prepared to take responsibility for other major issues, including with the government. With the weak government we now have, it is important that we responsible parties in the Swedish Parliament do what we can. With this in mind, I would once again like to endorse our two reservations.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-231	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying that I think the name change to the Liberals was good. I like your investment in food in home care, Erik Ullenhag. Like you, I think it's important that it smells like food. It is crucial to appetite and also provides good company. That's why it's a shame you're rejecting more employees in the care of the elderly. What I was going to talk about was above all the labour market. You reject the increase in unemployment benefit, which is deeply problematic. It is an insurance policy that should provide some kind of financial security. Your insurance is very low and creates a lot of financial insecurity for people without work. In this respect, you reject labour market policy efforts, but also in the field of education and training, which would make it easier for the unemployed to find a job. We have high unemployment at the same time as we have big matching problems. But I do not think the Liberals have any answers to that. While doing so, you are lowering taxes above all for those who serve the best. You're the party that spends the most money on it. You spend as much as 10 billion on tax cuts for those who already have good incomes. I also find that deeply problematic. On that, you propose that the parties sit down in talks to keep wages down in the labour market. This in itself is deeply problematic because it creates economic insecurity but also because it creates a fall in demand in the economy, which in turn gives a downward spiral. Most of the jobs involved are jobs where there are already poor working conditions and low wages. That is why I would like to ask you, Erik Ullenhag: how do you view people's opportunities for financial security and good working conditions?
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-238	Mr President, I would like to I appreciate that Ulla Andersson has already learned to say our new party name. It's going to take longer to myself, I can tell you. The concrete question was how we look at those who have small margins and how we look at the situation if we were to have increased wage dispersion and slightly lower wages in simpler jobs. We see the very people who have no job to go to. You can go to every international judge of the Swedish economy, Ulla Andersson. What's the problem with big alienation? Well, it's that we have very high entry wages. You could say it's fair. But I'm not sure I think so. Take a nanny. For a period of time, I negotiated the salary of my parent cooperative kindergarten – preschool is to be said, because it is important for the preschool teacher. When we were about to recruit child care workers, I thought it was strange that in this low-paid female profession, the new employee I hired would basically have the same salary as her who had worked in the profession for 25 years. What kind of signal is that sending? Well, the new employee will be happy. But they will probably not continue in the profession because they know that it is a profession where there is no wage development. It is because the lowest wages have been systematically pushed up. That's what it looks like in a lot of women's jobs. But the main problem is that in quite a few occupations where there is not a shortage, as is the case with childcare workers, the situation is that you do not get in at all. We can choose to live in a reality where we don't care what all assessors of the Swedish economy say from other countries, choose to live in a reality where we say it doesn't matter that people are completely outside the labour market, because it is more important that those who are inside have good pay. However, I think it is important to see reality for real, Ulla Andersson. Then we will have to have a development in the coming years in which we ensure that people come in and receive a salary instead of getting stuck in social security benefits, and then we will also have to liberalise labour law, and we will have to look at what wage formation in Sweden looks like.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-244	Mr President, I would like to I would like to pay tribute to the Liberals, because you are the bourgeois party that stands up because you think that economic differences should increase. The others try to hide it in their rhetoric, but you really stand up for it. I think you should pay tribute to that. But it also means rejecting economic research, which is quite clear: equal countries are developing better and feeling better. That is also what has been the success that we have had in this welfare country. In other countries they have chosen the model that the Liberals are asking for, i.e. they have very low-wage jobs. We have seen quite a lot of extensive interviews and reports from other countries where you interview people who have both two and three jobs but who still have pain in their stomachs every day because they can't handle their finances. I have had such low-wage jobs myself, and I can say: It feels as good as every day. You walk with the lump in your stomach and wonder how it will go. In addition, we can add what it actually looks like in the Swedish labour market: 69 per cent of retail workers have part-time jobs, 58 per cent of those in health and social work have part-time jobs, 58 per cent of those with social services such as home care and others have part-time jobs, and 53 per cent of those in hotels and restaurants have part-time jobs. Then we all – at least we should – understand that it is going to be incredibly tough economically, but also in terms of power and influence and trade union organisation, with what you are proposing. It's a completely different model. It is very easy to stand there and have good income yourself, as representatives of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, and propose lower wages. I would like to say: try living off those salaries yourself! And look at what is happening to economic development in a country where you actually do so! It does not exactly improve, but rather the other way around, while insecurity increases and development is being phased out.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-248	Mr President, I would like to I think it's good when we have different ideas about what we want to do with Sweden, but sometimes we perceive reality differently. Ulla Andersson and I have different ideas about how we want Sweden to look in the long term, and we see different people. My focus is on the people who don't have a job to go to at all. Then we can say: We will solve this by increasing the tax on jobs and increasing the tax on companies – it is your recipe – and, furthermore, we will not do anything about wage formation and labour law. I apologise, but I believe that many tens of thousands of people will not have a job to go to at all. And in a situation when we have people coming from other countries, the major reform of the Swedish labour market that needs to take place is about getting in and getting the first job. Then Ulla Andersson says: Look, other countries have tried it – it doesn't work! I have not heard Ulla Andersson, but I have heard those with whom you cooperate, both Magdalena Andersson and Stefan Löfven, in the election movement highlight that other countries succeed better than Sweden: Germany and Austria. Yes, they do. But what the Prime Minister then forgot to tell us was that the countries have functioning apprenticeship systems with higher wage spread. Is there a problem in Germany? They have lower youth unemployment. I think it's good that you can come in and get a first job at a slightly lower salary to get into the labour market at all. I have a view of justice that does not upset me that people make money but is upset that people lack opportunity and live in freedom. The people to whom the Liberals will focus are the people who live in that freedom, who do not have a job to go to. We will focus on those people who do not have a place to live. You can continue with yesterday's solutions, as Ulla Andersson would like, and put on a blindfold and say: Sweden does not really work like other countries – we can do this and only talk about those who are in the labour market, inside the housing market. But, Mr President, our idea is to develop a policy for more people to enter the housing market and enter the labour market. I regret that the government with which Ulla Andersson cooperates lacks such an idea for Sweden.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-253	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for approval of the reservations of the Christian Democrats 5 and 10. We live in troubled times, with threats and insecurity, with people fleeing, fleeing from Daish's ravages or the severe repression in Eritrea, fleeing to a Europe that seeks to renounce moral responsibility for fellow humans in need. The Europe that rose up after the trampling of human dignity by world wars now needs to come together again, so that more can be helped, in line with the values of the West, but which are now being cheated. It is a crisis of value that we see. As a consequence, Sweden's reception system has been under strong pressure. Sweden and some other countries have taken responsibility. We have seen fantastic efforts by civil society, by many people in our authorities and our municipalities, and people have shown a tremendous willingness to help. We will take responsibility, and we will be able to make it sustainable. The government yesterday presented major changes to Swedish refugee policy that it wants to see. Some are necessary, such as temporary residence permits. Other questions, such as family reunification, can be raised. Talks are now taking place, and so here is not the place to engage in any major discussion on this, but to look at the proposals for action. Nevertheless, we face challenges in many areas linked to this refugee crisis. These are short-term capacity problems and costs. And it is – properly handled – about long-term opportunities. How do we really open up our society to jobs, housing, education and community? How can people quickly build new lives in Sweden and be able to contribute fully? Much is different from September. In a way, the budget is overplayed because it has already been followed by an additional amending budget. But the political conflicts that the budget so clearly exposed then have not diminished. On the contrary, they may have become even more important. The road choices that Sweden is now making are of great importance for the future. It concerns freedom of choice, welfare, the credibility of public finances and cost control. But above all, it's about jobs. Mr President, I would like to In the refugee camps in Jordan there is a work ban. It, along with a lack of food and education, leads to a growing hopelessness. In Sweden, there was also a long work ban for asylum seekers. It became passivating and took away dignity from people: You do not need, cannot, should not and must not contribute. Nowadays, people can often get work permits right away, even if more can be done here. AT-UND should also be given to those who do not have the right ID documents, so that everyone can start working immediately when they arrive in Sweden. Of course, a formal opportunity to work is not enough. Do we not establish in Sweden something that in practice may resemble a work ban with our high taxes on jobs, our rules, agreements, requirements, IDs, certifications, extracts and structures, which are often well-lawful in their particulars? Even if you are a highly educated doctor, it takes many years for you to work in Sweden. If you have a low level of education, chances are far less. It is a waste of resources, and it is counterproductive of community and belief in the future, which is closely linked to jobs. When you get a job, you go from surviving to living and planning for the future. You will have greater opportunities to take responsibility for the society in which you are part. That is why we now need reforms to lower thresholds and to be able to say seriously to those who seek us: my country is your country. Church historian Joel Halldorf wrote in an article that in the monasteries known for reading, prayer and stillness, perhaps a little counter-intuitive, even the work and being able to contribute and ultimately do something for another human being so valuable that it would not be deprived of anyone. It became everyone's responsibility to ensure that everyone could be given the opportunity to contribute according to their ability. We can learn from this and make sure everyone gets the chance. We tried to do it in the Alliance's work to break the alienation. Some we did, others remain. Today, more and more people are moving further away from the labour market – people with disabilities, young people, older people and, not least, new arrivals. In the Sweden that the Christian Democrats want to see, not everyone always works full time or always, but everyone works 100 percent of their ability. We're all needed. That may sound obvious, but there is also a conflict here. If everyone is needed, then all jobs are also needed. This means jobs that do not exist today, both highly productive and less productive jobs, as they are called – service jobs and everyday jobs. Some of the jobs that have been rationalised away because they were too expensive need to come back, and new ones need to come to. A policy is needed to enable these jobs. It is about structural reforms and reduced costs. There is a part of the migration agreement around the RUT. But in the government's practical policy otherwise, some jobs do not really bother. There is also a message to be given to many unemployed people: we do not have room for you. Not only are some jobs not included in government policy, but most of the government's funding has its edge on jobs and businesses. How many jobs disappear we do not know, because the government does not make that kind of calculations, but instead has a so-called textual snippet. But, Mr President, we know the following: if we increase taxes on jobs, then less jobs will be done. It is precisely that signal from the government that deafening still cuts through the noise of last autumn. This is about tens of billions of dollars in taxes on jobs and 40 billion in tax increases, of which 80% on jobs. There is something similar to a watermark on the budget bill, and if you hold it up in the light, it is clear that it does not say When, if not now, are reforms needed? The government has a fast track. That's good. Training places and validation are also good. The Christian Democrats are investing in university of applied sciences and folk high school, and we want to raise the school hall for new arrivals. But we want more. We propose that the first half million you earn in Sweden should be tax-free. It will apply to young and new arrivals for the first five years in Sweden. It provides opportunities for the individual to work together a small start-up capital, perhaps for a home or to start a business. It also allows for structural changes in the labour market. It is speeding up the establishment that is taking place too late in Sweden, and it is thus also extending working life, so that we can manage pension obligations and welfare obligations in the future. Similarly, we need to extend working life towards the end through greater opportunities for older people to remain in the labour market. With this reform, it will also be very profitable to take jobs to the lowest agreed wages for a few years, so that more entry jobs can emerge and that more people can go to self-sufficiency with the pride that it entails. We also propose more RUT services, such as laundry-RUT, where a job done week after week can create thousands of paid white jobs. We propose that simpler repair services should have the lowest possible VAT to enable start-ups and jobs in occupations in which not least many new arrivals have experience. With a new start-up deduction in the form of an additional tax relief, we can reduce some of the sky-high marginal effects for people who go from benefits and benefits to work. We want to see matching positions, where the state helps to reduce the uncertainty that employers feel about hiring people who have not been tested in the labour market. It must also be easier to teach the job at work for a slightly lower remuneration but with an educational content. But then it is also necessary for the parties to take greater responsibility. There has been too much trouble with the introduction of the profession. It needs to be more standardised and simpler so that more people can benefit from it. Now is the time to think new and to turn over every stone, so that everyone can have a job and some place to call their home. Mr President, I would like to Reforms are needed in a number of areas. Hospital care must become a state for equal care. Freedom of choice and quality of care must be developed and not phased out. We need to bring about a real green tax shift that actually lowers taxes on labour and increases it on what is harmful to the environment. Support for families with children needs to be extended, not least to the economically vulnerable. And the government's budget, which should lay the foundations for the community and belief in the future that we now need, does not. Instead of the power and authority of individuals and families over their own lives, it is increasingly a matter of authority over families, associations, companies and non-profit organisations. Even the treasure of generosity is raised. Even that tax increase cannot be abandoned. As the government expands the public commitment and at the same time dismantles job reforms, this leads in the wrong direction. What Sweden now needs is therefore another economic policy that means that we know that it is in companies that jobs grow, where we step by step develop our common welfare and where we create the conditions for community in strong families and a strong civil society. It is a policy of freedom without egotism and solidarity without socialism.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-288	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has had a historically well-developed success. In our modern history, we have received a great many people who have been forced here because of war, oppression and dictatorships. At the same time, we have built a well-functioning welfare state. In the 1950s we received fleeing balters, while introducing general health insurance. In the 1970s we received many who came from Chile, while introducing good working parental insurance. In the 1970s and 1980s, we received many people from South America, Iran and several countries, while at the same time expanding care for the elderly, preschools and recreation centres. So we invested in welfare while receiving a great many people who came to our country. The difference this time is that we receive more and that it will create pressure on the systems that we have. But it is also a great opportunity for our country when people come here and want to work and do the right thing. The big difference is probably that we are richer now than when we built our welfare state. While we are noting this, we can now see that the Christian Democrats, at a time when Sweden is growing and the population is increasing, are proposing that we reduce expenditure, that is to say, that we should add less money to the common welfare. While we are noting this, the Christian Democrats are also proposing tax-subsidised low-wage jobs and restrictions on conflict law. I think that shows a clear line from the Christian Democrats, and I am disappointed. Our two parties have joined together in many manifestations for refugees, and now you are a party that actually participates and restricts people's opportunities to come to our country. You are at the forefront of the proposals you are making. I would like to ask Jakob Forssmed: why are you proposing a reduction in expenditure at a time when Sweden is growing so badly? Why do you want to subsidize low-wage jobs and restrict conflict law?
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-293	Mr President, I would like to I am happy to take the lead in reforms that can lead to people getting to work. I believe that our reforms can do so. The biggest gap in a society is between those who have a job and those who do not have a job. This must be seen, and we must be prepared to make changes in the labour market in order to face it when we have hundreds of thousands of people who are far from the labour market and have a low level of education. They come to Sweden and get a closed door in their face; they are admitted, but they are not admitted to the labour market. Then we need to think again. It is sad to hear that there are no reforms to ensure that more people get to work. Why not reduce VAT on simpler repair services, so that we create more jobs for more people with different types of qualifications in the Swedish labour market? Is that so wrong with the RUT reform, which has created tens of thousands of jobs? Half of those who get jobs in the RUT sector are born abroad, and three out of four come from previous redundancies or unemployment. That is the kind of reforms we need more of at this stage, not less. If we do not see these problems, the gaps will grow, and then it will take even longer for people to enter the labour market. Then we will have even more children who grow up without their parents getting a foothold on the labour market. It's not a development I want to see. We make a lot of investments in our budget option, and Ulla Andersson knows that. We raise the national standard for families with children, and we raise the basic level of parental insurance. We ensure that the housing allowance for people and families with children is increased in financial vulnerability. These are the bets we want to make. However, we say no to a long list of your tax increases on jobs and entrepreneurship, which, at this point, are hitting people in unemployment very hard. We are therefore also saying no to many of the expenditure you can do with reference to those tax increases. It is as simple as that – but not in Ulla Andersson's world.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-298	Mr President, I would like to Should we accept people who come here? Yeah, I think that's obvious. If you run from war and oppression, you should have the opportunity to seek asylum here. These possibilities are now being closed, and I deeply regret that. At the same time, you have presented a budget motion which actually means that we save a great deal of money on education. If people who have come here now need training in order to be able to participate in the labour market, would it not be reasonable to invest in education and training – in vocational training and labour market policies? However, if you look at the budget tables, you can see that you are making huge savings there. You're also making savings on medical care. I'm sorry about that. You're making savings in care for the elderly. It's also work that's needed. We could hire more people in care for the elderly. We could employ more people in preschool and in the creation of new businesses. We could make quite a big effort, but you have chosen to spend money on tax cuts instead of making sure that we invest and create opportunities for people who come here. You did not comment at all that you want to restrict conflict law, Jakob Forssmed. The fact that the forces to form a low-wage market are strong while there are parties that want to restrict conflict law will mean something to the Swedish labour market. You can work yourself to death for nothing, or – as a social democrat said here in the break – you can sit on a bench and have nothing. Maybe that's the difference in the view of work between you and me, Jakob Forssmed. In fact, I think that you should have paid for your work, and I do not think that we should use tax money either to distort competition in markets or to subsidise low-wage jobs. We will invest in developing the labour market. We're going to invest in people – give them opportunities and labour market policies – and we're going to increase investments. As investment rises, unemployment falls; we can see that historically. However, you do the opposite. You are lowering the level of investment in the budget you have proposed, and you are cutting common expenditure sharply. That is what you propose.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-303	Mr President, I would like to Now Ulla Andersson has been up in many replica shifts and claimed that we make different types of savings. We are therefore not proposing as much increases in expenditure as the government and the Left Party. It's not savings. It's not cutbacks. We also invest in education, but we cannot invest as much because we do not raise taxes as monumentally on jobs and businesses. You're supposed to work yourself to death for nothing? No, you shouldn't do that. You should have a salary for your work in Sweden. That is my opinion. That is why we are proposing to keep more of its salary in the proposals we are putting forward. It is particularly targeted at young and newcomers who find it difficult to enter the labour market. It is about making it easier to extend working life and easier to get a foothold, so that people can build up initial capital and, for example, be able to enter the housing market. That is our policy. If you, like Ulla Andersson, do not see these problems, but simply say that if we invest more money in hiring people in the public sector, everything will be all right! After all, there is no problem. Then we have no problems in the Swedish labour market, because then we have no problem with people not getting into work. But we do have those problems. It is the biggest social problem in the long term that people do not come to work. If you are going to get a job, you have to get your first job, and the big difference between Sweden and many other countries is the lack of a certain type of job that we have made it too expensive to have in this country. I want to change that. I think more people will be able to get a seat. More with different qualifications, more with different types of educational background and more foreign born will get an honest chance on the Swedish labour market. That is not what it looks like today.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-307	Mr President, I would like to Sweden faces major challenges. Not least, we are affected by the anxiety of our world around us. The security situation in our part of the world has deteriorated for some time, and few have been left untouched by the appalling terrorist attacks we have seen in recent weeks. Of course, it is all the more important to stand up for openness, democracy and the equal value of all people. At the same time, we must not be passive in the face of the threats we see. Millions of people in the world around us can testify to what happens when national borders are not respected, when one is bombed by one's own government and when states stop working and breed extremist terror instead of welfare. Of course, ending conflicts, contributing to relationships of trust and contributing to detour in our world is an important task. However, in a troubled time, it is also essential that we strengthen our own country. The deteriorating security situation has resulted in us now wanting to strengthen our capacity to protect our territory, and the defence agreement increases the appropriations for defence. This budget also increases resources for the Security Service to face the increasing threat of violent extremism. Mr President, I would like to The Government's budget provides not only a new direction for these appropriations, but also a new direction for Sweden. Through joint investments, we build Sweden stronger. It is a budget that prioritises work, school, climate and welfare. By the time the government took office in 2014, the large unfunded tax cuts had weakened public finances. Unemployment had stuck at high levels and school results had deteriorated for several years in a row. It is a development that must be broken. That is why we are now carrying out major reforms for more jobs and a better school. We do this in order for Sweden to be a country where everyone is involved and contributes. More people need to work to secure our prosperity and prosperity in the future. Work to go to is also a prerequisite for a free and independent life for most people. While unemployment is too high, there are more job vacancies than ever. This requires not only investment to create new jobs in the future, but also strong measures to improve labour market matching. Training efforts are needed, and investment is needed both in infrastructure that enables commuting and in housing that allows people to move to work or study. And we also see such policies in the budget that we want to vote for. In total, the government will invest 5 1⁄2 billion in the housing sector next year. This is the most important investment in housing policy that has been made in a couple of decades. In order for trains to run on time and companies' transports to arrive, there is now a 20% increase in rail maintenance. If we require people to equip themselves for the jobs that are emerging, we must also invest in the knowledge and education opportunities that are needed. This is why a new knowledge lift is being carried out with a strong expansion of the university, university of applied sciences, folkhögskolan, komvux and yrkesvux. This means a total of almost 44 000 new training places next year. The vocational programme of upper secondary school is central to ensuring that both companies and the activities of welfare are given the skills they need and are in demand. Young people's increasing interest in vocational training risks making it difficult for many sectors to find the right skills. The Government therefore proposes a vocational training package to strengthen the quality and attractiveness of education and training. We see that the upper secondary school degree is a watershed on the Swedish labour market, and therefore we invest in the budget on measures such as education contracts and trainee jobs that allow more people to get their first job, perhaps while at the same time completing their upper secondary school degree that is necessary to stay in the labour market. Sweden needs to take advantage of everyone's expertise, whether it has been acquired in Sweden or in some other part of the world. We therefore propose a validation effort so that you can get your education and skills assessed more quickly. In order for those who come to Sweden to get to work as quickly as possible, a fast track is also introduced, which provides fast, efficient ways into the shortage professions and industries with great needs. Active enterprise policy creates jobs throughout the country, provides more innovative and growing companies and strengthens Swedish exports. In order for Sweden to be well equipped in international competition, several export promotion initiatives are being made. More of the state's venture capital will be used in the early stages of business development, and efforts will be made in innovation and new industrialisation. After all, we do not solve either the matching problems in the labour market, the housing shortage or future skills requirements with further cuts or short-term tax cuts. Now we have to invest in Sweden: in housing and infrastructure, in knowledge and competitiveness for more jobs and an industry of absolute world class. It is at school that the basis for much of this is laid. Many students meet really knowledgeable and committed educators who lead them on to both knowledge and self-confidence. But inequality in the Swedish school has increased, and more and more people finish comprehensive school with incomplete grades. Of course, a school where students are allowed to slip behind and be knocked out will cost society dearly. That is why we are now starting the turnaround in Swedish school. Sweden needs to invest more in a school where everyone can fit and where no one is allowed to slip behind. In order for each student to bring in basic knowledge, it is important that the efforts are made early. The Government has already initiated a number of early efforts within the framework of the Low Stage Lift. There, SEK 2 billion are allocated annually to hire more teachers in preschool and primary school, so that preschool teachers and teachers have more time for the children and so that the classes can become smaller. In order to reduce children's groups in preschool, a further nearly SEK 1 billion will be invested from next year. The status of the teaching profession needs to be increased in order to increase the learning outcomes in schools. We are facing a major shortage of teachers while the search pressure for teacher training is too low. A number of reforms are therefore being implemented to make the teaching profession more attractive. The teacher's salary lift invests SEK 3 billion annually for increased teacher's salaries. Some 60 000 teachers can thus receive an average increase of SEK 3 000 per month. After eight years of unfunded tax cuts and widening gaps, it is time to alleviate some other breaks in welfare. For this there are resources in the budget for welfare, for health and long-term care. There are also efforts to strengthen the economy of the country's pensioners and to help those children and families with the worst conditions. But in the longer term, it is of course investments in jobs, knowledge and schools that are the most important efforts to reduce gaps and create a society that stays together. Mr President, I would like to Historically many people in the world are on the run. Those who go to Sweden do it, of course, because they think that our country is safe and secure. At the same time, we can see that Sweden has taken disproportionate responsibility in a European perspective. More countries must do their bit in favour of solidarity and sustainable reception throughout the European Union. Following the migration agreement, the government returned yesterday with further proposals for measures to bring the reception down to sustainable levels. Tens of thousands of people who are now in our reception system should be given the opportunity to be redistributed to other countries, so that people who come to Sweden and Europe can get the help and support that one can expect, so that one can quickly get started with their new life and make a living on their own and contribute in the new country. The government also put an amending budget for 2015 on the table of this House because the number of asylum seekers has increased significantly since the budget was presented. It is an important point that the policy now presented in the government budget is only becoming more urgent in the new situation. What is needed is more housing, faster ways to work through better validation, fast track to work for those who have an education or experience from shortage professions, increased educational opportunities when needed to get a job, efforts to improve school education, strengthening social services and substantially increased compensation to municipalities that provides more money for welfare. With the basis laid in the form of halved deficits, we have the opportunity to meet the challenges, to implement the reforms and put them in place with stability and responsibility for public finances. It is a decision of strength from Sweden in a troubled time. I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-328	Mr President, I would like to I have repeatedly tried to ask both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance a question, but I have never received an answer to it. Now I try with the chairman of the Finance Committee, Fredrik Olovsson. Can Fredrik Olovsson mention any independent judge who believes in the government's employment policy? It's enough with a yes or no.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-330	Mr President, I would like to I understand that Erik Ullenhag has views on the policy that we want to pursue. I fully understand that. When, after eight years of government, we have not been able to deliver the development that we have promised, when unemployment has stuck and school results have fallen, then there is reason to shift the debate to something else. Now we are trying to respond in our economic policy to the challenges we see in Sweden. There is a redeployment gap, i.e. jobs are created, but employers who want to hire do not find the necessary skills. We have an education that does not deliver in a way that allows students to move on to upper secondary school and then get approved upper secondary school grades. This is a prerequisite for Sweden to be able to develop well in the future. It is also a prerequisite for the Swedish labour market to function as we want it to work, so that jobs are created that someone can take, so that more people can participate and that ever higher wages can contribute to higher prosperity. Then I have noted that the Liberals have a different view of a great deal of these issues. They want to make major cuts to the funding for housing, to the transition to the labour market, to education that is so important for us to get more jobs so that more people can move on to better jobs. It also wants to make major cuts in health care. These are things that Mr Ullenhag did not like to talk about in his speech and which he obviously does not want to discuss here and now either. But please take the opportunity to explain why this kind of cuts would do something better in Sweden!
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-336	Mr President, I would like to The television viewer or Member of Parliament who thinks this was the answer to the question can raise a hand. I asked the question: is there any independent judge who has examined government policy and who believes in your employment policy? This is quite fascinating. The reason I ask the question is that almost everyone saws the government's employment policy. The Institute of Economics, a government agency, points to the fact that it leads to 15 000 - 20 000 fewer people employed, which is serious for Sweden. The fascinating thing about the fact that it is not possible to answer the question is that I have asked it several times to both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance, who both talk about something completely different, just like Fredrik Olovsson. Those of us who have been privileged to sit in the government at some point know that there are quite a few good officials there. Surely an official could have found some independent authority or any independent actor who could say that the government's employment policy is good? You have a lot of officers in the party headquarters at Sveavägen 68. Surely someone should have been able to indicate in all these months any independent authority that thinks so? But the problem, Fredrik Olovsson, is that there is no independent authority or judge who believes in your employment policy. I am forced to repeat the question, Mr President. Can Fredrik Olovsson answer the question? It's enough with yes or no. Is there an independent judge who believes in and has pointed out that the government's employment policy works?
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-340	Mr President, I would like to Counting the jobs before they arrive, counting on their reforms and specifying that it will be 100, 1,000 or perhaps 100,000 new jobs, is something that was very important for the previous government. It was really done a lot and often. When that was evaluated against reality, the results have become less flattering. The calculations have not been followed up with developments in Sweden of the kind that were promised when the reforms were made. The reality has been quite brutal to the government policy that Erik Ullenhag represents. The evaluation of the current government's employment policy will, of course, gradually be seen in reality by bringing more people to work. The challenge for this government is, of course, that the strong migration we have had this autumn changes the conditions and makes it much more difficult, for example, to reach Europe's lowest unemployment rate. But we're not going to lower our ambitions just for that. I also note that Erik Ullenhag is not happy to tell you how a housing policy where there is no construction, a removed transition in the labour market and cuts in education could result in more jobs and a better functioning Sweden.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-343	Mr President, I would like to A key idea in the budget that the government has put on Parliament's table is to increase taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship and make it more expensive to work and more expensive to hire. For the tax money you collect, you increase the public commitment on a wide range of points. You have proposed, for example, free admission to museums and new changes to health insurance. This will lead to fewer jobs and significantly increased government costs. I would like to ask Fredrik Olovsson whether he is concerned about public finances. When you ask expert authorities about your proposals, a number of people come back to the fact that the increase in expenditure that you are proposing risks becoming much greater, for example in the area of health insurance, where both the cashier and the Employment Service are pointing this out. At the same time, it is estimated that your tax proposals will eventually lead to lower tax revenues as they reduce people's tendency to work. The Economic Crime Authority points to this in the case of the ROT; white jobs will be blacked out again, and the State will thus be deprived of tax revenue. The Swedish Financial Control Agency points to this in the case of marginal taxes and the reduction of job tax deductions. This is also something that is being pointed out by expert authorities with regard to the special salary tax for the elderly, which you want to introduce. I think you should taste the words: special wage tax for older workers. This tax is also liable to lead to lower tax revenues, as it has the clear effect of reducing the number of older workers and putting more people into unemployment. My question to Fredrik Olovsson is: How worried are you about public finances at this time?
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-347	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that we have a strained situation in the Swedish economy in that we still have a persistent deficit from previous years. We have managed to halve it roughly, but it is still a deficit. This certainly means that we have a space to deal with unexpected events before we end up in a really difficult position. Of course, this should be taken very seriously. That is why we are funding our proposals in this budget, heads for heads. We cannot continue to reduce taxes on chalk, as you did during the 2014 election year. It was irresponsible to do that. This shows, not least, the developments we have had since this. It would have been better if the deficits were smaller then, so that we had more margins today. Then, of course, all finance ministers, the Ministry of Finance and the chairman and members of the Finance Committee must be very careful with both expenditure and revenue in the state budget. This needs to be closely monitored over time so as not to get into major problems. But it is also very important that we can now make the important future reforms that can boost growth and jobs in Sweden. We need to get housing. We need to have more training places so that we can stop the recruitment gap and so that companies can continue to develop. All of this the Christian Democrats want to cut back, but they are not happy to tell us about the consequences.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-350	Mr President, I would like to Here we have another debater who claims to stand for cuts if you do not agree to all the government's expenditure increases. Come on, Fredrik Olovsson! If there is a strained situation of deficits, which the Alliance's budget obviously reduces, then one should surely be extra responsible and extra careful with public finances. That is why I am a little concerned about Fredrik Olovsson's lack of concern about the fact that expert authorities have spoken out on the government's reforms, particularly in the area of taxation, and have said that they will not give the tax revenue the government expects. They will have the effect that fewer jobs are white and more are going to the black sector. They will have the effect that fewer people want to work and that contributions to the public purse will thus be reduced. Moreover, using insecure tax revenues to increase public commitments by making it free to go to museums and make other free investments, which in turn may increase the tendency to use such services, runs the risk of becoming even worse and even more dangerous. On top of everything, when we do not see that we need more people working longer to cope with pensions, public finances and welfare obligations, but instead impose a special wage tax on older people, it shows that unfortunately we are pursuing a wrong economic policy and do not really have the necessary insights. Now is not the time to take this kind of action, but now is the time to be much more careful, not least in terms of how tax increases hit jobs.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-353	Mr President, I would like to In fact, you want to reduce the share of spending in our economy in a situation where the population is growing, Jakob Forssmed. Yes, it leads to cuts. You'll have to stand for it. You're cutting it down. It's getting worse. There will be fewer homes. There will be less education. It's getting worse medical care. It'll be less care. That is in fact what is in your proposals. You'll have to stand for that policy! We will, of course, hunt you with it, for we see how much need there is in welfare, how much there is for education. Now that we get a lot of new people coming to Sweden, we see not least what great needs there are for housing. In all these areas, we note that the policy you have pursued for eight years has not delivered, has not prepared Sweden. Of course, one might wonder how one could have known that this would happen in the autumn. No, you couldn't. But even before that we had these kinds of problems and needs, and they were ignored. Yeah, let's raise taxes. We need to use the money we get for important future investments that lead to jobs and prosperity. We need to get the wheels going, so that more people contribute and so that tax revenues can increase. That's how it's connected.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-356	Mr President, I would like to It's with rising fascination I've been watching the previous replica shifts. Fredrik Olovsson's ability in many words and extremely many counter-questions to answer nothing and not to tell if anything is impressive. Erik Ullenhag requires a very simple statement if there is an external analyst who approves and believes in the government's employment policy. We all know the answer is no. There's no such thing. Anyone who reviews Reger no one's employment policy says it leads to fewer jobs. But there is no answer at all. Fredrik Olovsson also takes it a step further and questions making forecasts of anything at all. Should we interpret Fredrik Olovsson's post in the line shift with Erik Ullenhag is the only thing you can do when it comes to evaluating reforms to see later. You'll see how it turned out. We'll do it, and then we'll see what happens. It is an unserious way of pursuing economic policy, and it is an unserious way of pursuing employment policy. It is also illustrative of a government option and a budgetary option which, compared with those of the Alliance in power, is more or less clinically clean from job forecasts and estimates of how the proposals hit jobs. In the line with Jakob Forssmed, Fredrik Olovsson says that it would have been good if the deficits had been lower in previous years. You can agree with that. It is clear that surpluses are always better than deficits, and deficits are better the less they are. In every budget Fredrik Olovsson then put on the table of the Riksdag – Fredrik Olovsson sat in the Riksdag also during the previous parliamentary term – the Social Democratic deficits were higher than in the budgets presented by the government. The Social Democrats wanted to spend more money. What remains of the credibility of economic policy if you say things that go against what you said just a few years ago and if you do not believe in forecasts at all?
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-363	Mr President, I would like to I note that of the job forecasts that have been carried out with great zeal before by the bourgeois, and not least Anders Borg, very little has since proved to be true in practice. Of course, you can live in a forecast world. A lot of people at the Ministry of Finance do that. It's not entirely insignificant. But that's not the answer to all the questions. They don't take it all in. It is quite clear that this has failed over and over again. Now, once again, hope is being expressed for the very great impact of its major tax cuts. They won't be fulfilled this time either. It is, of course, that tax increases can affect people and the economy in such a way that the increase itself affects people so that they become less interested in one or the other. But we also get tax revenue that we use for important investments. One forgets that part and what it means when we build housing so that people get jobs when they are built and can also move to where the jobs are. We invest in training that closes the recruitment gap so that you can get the employees you want so that the company can develop and you can take in another order. If you don't forget that part of the calculation, there won't be much left of the whining that we have a job policy that would be too bad. In the end, it does not matter what forecasts have been made. At the end of the day, it is reality that is being evaluated against. When you were last evaluated in the elections, it was not in your favor. This was, of course, linked to the fact that Anders Borg's forecasts always looked terribly good but that reality never responded to them.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-369	Mr President, I would like to I have another question that is relatively simple to answer if you want to. Does Fredrik Olovsson see any other country in Europe that succeeded better during the financial crisis in creating more jobs? Fredrik Olovsson talks about reality. Let us then use reality as an evaluation measure. It came in rounds to 340 000 new jobs during the Alliance's time in power. Is there any other country in Europe that can show such a net given the conditions and the very tough economy we had? Fredrik Olovsson now defends the idea that one can forecast the future and can make calculations on how proposals beat, and I think that is good. I can understand the reluctance to do this. When the Ministry of Finance tried this a year ago and wrote how it considered that the proposals would strike, it had to blackly write that the tax proposals put forward in the budget bill will hit growth and employment. In fact, that's how honest you were. Although that sentence has now been erased, the proposals remain. The suggestions that led to this confession remain, but the confession is gone. We can also look at the long-term forecasts. We see that the government itself does not believe that structural unemployment will improve very much in the coming period and during the time for which it sets its bold targets. If you read the budget proposal, you can see that it is much more honest and clearer than Fredrik Olovsson is. What Sweden needs is a job policy that means that jobs grow. There were 340 000 new jobs in eight years. We need more of that product. We need more growing companies and more jobs. That's what we need to get back to.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-374	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that the budget proposal is somewhat more comprehensive than a debate in this House. There's a lot more to talk about. So does the Center Party's budget bill. Emil Källström has chosen not to talk about his large reduction list at all. In order to maintain Maud Olofsson's major reform in Swedish politics – namely the inefficient reductions in employers' contributions for young people, which no other bourgeois party believes in – you have a substantial reduction list. You say no to reduced tax rates for pensioners and increased justice. You say no to school and higher teacher's wages. You're cutting into care for the elderly. You say no to jobs and training opportunities for the unemployed. You cut back on investment in housing construction. It is certainly nicer to talk about forecasts for someone else's budget than to tell us what effects this will have on jobs, cohesion and development in Sweden. You do not have the answers to the major challenges that Sweden has. You have, above all, tax cuts.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-378	Mr President, I would like to Copenhagen, Garissa in Kenya, Beirut, Paris and Bamako in Mali. During this year, the world has witnessed several heinous acts of terror. Many people have lost their lives or been injured, many more mourn. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The world will be a colder place. That is why all acts of support and unity, all support for peace, freedom, democracy and humanism are so important and so crucial to the development of society. This autumn will also go down in history as the one when Europe's and Sweden's solidarity with people on the run was put on their hardest tests so far. Throughout the country, people are doing great things to take care of all those who come to our country in a dignified way. At this time when we as politicians have to make very tough decisions, the right to seek asylum is unwavering. D we do not give up on one. Mr President, I would like to This is a time of seriousness and gathering around our common values. It is not a time of strife but a time of responsibility. D is unity and unity which is the best way to face the serious situation in our world. The budget we are going to decide on today includes major investments in the three priorities of the government: climate, school and jobs. It is investments for a stronger Sweden that can meet the challenges of the future. Mr President, I would like to Twice this year, Paris has been hit by atrocious acts of terror. But the city of Paris will not be associated with violence and terror. Instead, the city will stand for hope and success in the fight for a sustainable world. In just a few days' time, the International Conference on Climate Change will begin in Paris. We in the Green Party, as well as the Minister for the Environment and the whole government, have great hopes for a good agreement. We can do this because all countries and more and more have realised the seriousness. The time for failures and excuses has long passed. It's time for responsibility. Prior to the climate summit in Paris, the government has worked for an agreement that should be global, fair and legally binding and that should keep global warming as far below two degrees as possible. We will strengthen Sweden's own climate policy, and we will cooperate with those countries in the world that are striving in the same direction. Sweden will become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. This promise was made by Prime Minister Stefan Löfven in the Government Declaration earlier this year. The government's climate work is both local and global. The so-called climate economy provides money for local climate investments, and the urban environment agreement provides money for those who want to invest in public transport. Climate action in poor countries will be supported by the UN Green Fund. Environmental taxes are an important tool for achieving a sustainable society. In recent years, however, their governing effect has diminished. Instead, we want the impact of governance to increase. Therefore, the government also proposes an increase in energy tax and several other environmental taxes. Solar cells will play an important role in a future sustainable energy system. The government wants to promote the expansion of solar energy, and therefore the support for solar investment is greatly increased. Thousands of households and businesses already in line can now implement their plans. The government is also investing more money in electric cars and buses to promote cycling, sustainable consumption, environmental technology and methane reduction. Success at the Paris climate summit is essential to halt global warming, but also to prevent humanitarian disasters caused by floods and other extreme weather events. Mr President, I would like to Malala Yousafzai, a champion of girls' right to education and also a recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize, is said to have said: with weapons you can kill terrorists, but with education you can kill terrorism. It is worth remembering these dark days when acts of terror lead to demands that we respond with more weapons and more killing. Education makes peace possible. It eradicates poverty and is a prerequisite for democracy. Education is the key to so much, not only in poor countries like Malala's country of Pakistan, but also in our country. Education increases equality, builds faith in the future and reduces exclusion and unemployment. Therefore, school is one of the government's and the Green Party's priority areas. Although many students meet a really good school with knowledgeable and committed teachers, the Swedish school faces major challenges. The results have fallen over many years, the school has become increasingly unequal and the lack of teachers is a serious problem. We must reverse that trend. The key to this is skilled and committed teachers. The teaching profession must again become an attractive profession. That's why the government is now investing your billions in the so-called L Island Lift. The government provides more resources to schools that have weak study results and tough conditions. We increase the compensation to municipalities that receive asylum seekers children at school and invest in more staff on fritis. Every student should have an honest chance of succeeding in school. This requires that each student has the time he or she needs with his or her teacher, that the teaching is adapted to the student's conditions and that support is provided as soon as necessary. Therefore, the government invests in more employees in primary school and more specialist teachers. Today's and tomorrow's labour markets require secondary education. Therefore, the government invests in upper secondary vocational training and introduces the right to komvux so that anyone who wants to be able to complete their upper secondary education. Step by step, we will reverse developments in the Swedish school. It is about equality, equality and belief in the future. Mr President, I would like to There is no lack of work to do in Sweden. There is a need for more housing, the railways need to be upgraded, and in health care and school many more hands are needed. Yet too many people are excluded from the labour market. This applies both to those who have lived in Sweden all their lives and to those who have come here recently. All people who can work should also have a job, with good conditions and a salary that you can live on. Therefore, the government invests in measures that provide jobs, in more and growing companies and in matching and skills development. The budget contains several billions to build more small, cheap and energy-efficient rentals and to renovate worn-out rentals in the million-programme areas. This is the largest investment in housing in over 20 years. It will give freedom to young people who today are forced to move around between friends' couches. It provides the opportunity for new arrivals to establish themselves and for more people to move where the jobs are. The maintenance of the railways and support for public transport will be strengthened. The Finnish Transport Agency has calculated that train delays cost society about SEK 5 billion per year. In addition to better rail transport, investment in rail transport also creates jobs. They contribute to better opportunities for businesses and are also necessary to meet the climate challenge. We want passengers and businesses to be able to trust the railways. That's why the government invests money so that you can replace everything that's complicated, such as overhead lines, switches, switchboards and rails. The fact that almost 400 000 people are unemployed while there are more job vacancies than ever before is a huge waste. This budget creates many new opportunities for education and matching so that people can take the jobs that exist, those that are emerging and those that can be created by those who have the right education. This is how we build Sweden stronger. Mr President, I would like to Many people now come to Sweden on the run from war and persecution. We can all be proud that we treat them with compassion and respect for their rights. In the autumn's budget, the government responds to the challenges posed by the reception. Jobs and education are the most important thing to establish yourself in a new country. This is why it should be faster to evaluate, validate, foreign education and experience. Those who have job experience that we lack in Sweden will get a fast track into the labour market. Schools and adult education are greatly enhanced. We will have to do more, but this is a start. In the amending budget that will be available there is a strengthening of about SEK 10 billion to municipalities, county councils and regions. It is money that will help them meet the most pressing challenges that the reception of refugees has brought this autumn. We have faced very difficult challenges, and events are progressing quickly. For us in the Green Party, it is absolutely crucial that we in Sweden continue to stand firm and safeguard people's right to seek asylum in our country. So Sweden should answer the challenge: with humanity and faith in the future. With this, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-404	Mr President, I would like to After just over a year in power, it is quite clear that the important thing for the Green Party is to retain power – not the political substance. For those who hesitated, this became extra clear yesterday. I must say for myself that the ideological and intellectual rigour of the action of the Green Party is not quite tangible. I also believe that this is something for which the voters will punish you in future elections. That is certainly not my problem. On the other hand, I am concerned about the fact that since the Green Party took over responsibility for aid policy, Sweden has broken a record in terms of the proportion of aid that never leaves Sweden's borders, but which is stuck in the Migration Agency's budget. I also note how the government has now tried to set a limit or a ceiling on how far it can go with the so-called refugee censuses. Given the action of the Green Party so far in government, I still have to ask the question: how important is this limit for the Green Party? When, not if, the Minister of Finance states that she needs more money to finance immigration, which will happen already next year and thus increase the proportion of bills in the aid budget – will the Green Party take responsibility and to dismiss its ministers and to leave the government?
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-407	Mr President, I would like to I fully understand that Oscar Sjöstedt has no opportunity whatsoever to understand the policy or decisions of the Green Party. Our values in terms of refugee policy are so far apart that it cannot be easy to understand what we think. The Green Party clearly upholds the right of asylum. Oscar Sjöstedt was in the speaker's seat before and said he wanted to close the border. These are two completely incompatible positions. With regard to the budget and the question of aid and settlements, this draft budget accounts for around 20%. Today it has also been announced that there is an agreement that they will not exceed 30%. That's where we are. The request for me to stand in the pulpit and tell Oscar Sjöstedt where the moral limit of the Green Party goes is, I think, beneath all criticism when we have seen that the moral limit of Sweden's democrats is in a completely different universe.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-410	Mr President, I would like to I am not talking about the right of asylum; it is a completely different discussion. We agree that we do not agree, and that is a good start. I cannot understand how this can be a sensible priority, even if, in formal terms, no rules are being violated by doing so. There are a lot of things you can do that are formally allowed but are still very stupid to do. How can it make sense to take money from the international aid budget, which aims to help people who are struggling in the third world, to finance continued immigration to Sweden? I don't get the priority. Wouldn't it be much more reasonable to do the exact opposite? Is the government listening to its Heads of Government at all? Has the government noticed that Sida, for example, says: What are the consequences when you take money from these people in the third world and give it to the Migration Agency in Sweden? Will the Green Party choose to leave the government when, not if, the Minister of Finance probably next year will need to increase the settlements to finance immigration to Sweden?
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-414	Mr President, I would like to As I said earlier, I am not going to discuss this issue, because we are now talking about the draft budget that is before us and on which we are going to decide today. There are things that I realise Oscar Sjöstedt does not understand when it comes to making various accounts. The draft budget that the Swedish Democrats have on the table represents massive cuts. He himself says that they are not made in welfare, but what is he going to do with the people that this money is put to the municipalities to help? The effect of the economic policy of the Swedish Democrats will be that we will have to pick everyone up with police, send them out of the country and then set up fences along every inch of our country. It will cost money that is not included in their proposals. 90 billion is the effect when they withdraw money from municipalities and county councils. It is money that will be lacking in those activities. Oscar Sjöstedt says: No, we don't mean that. When your draft budget was presented, we tried to clarify what the incredibly large reduction to the local government sector meant and did not get an answer. It was impossible to get an answer from the Swedish Democrats' office on how this calculation came together. It would be good if Oscar Sjöstedt could give us an explanation now in a slightly more detailed way than he did in a previous debate. When it comes to money for people on the run and who need help, we think that all stones need to be turned around in order for us to have a good refugee reception in Sweden, but we also think that we should continue to have an ambitious development policy that helps those people.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-417	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Janine Alm Ericson, for an interesting post! There is much in it to take on in terms of humanity and belief in the future, which will be absolutely crucial in order to be able to take Sweden and also Europe through crises that we see. Nevertheless, I would like to point out a few weaknesses which I think are contained in the budget and in the environmental-partisan reasoning. There's something about the Green Party and tax issues that doesn't really work. One thing is the absurdity, which I have raised many times with Janine Alm Ericson, in taxing generosity, even though non-profit organisations appeal not to do this because they see 250 million kronor disappear from their business after the turn of the year. It is also happening in the crisis that we have right now, when we need more commitment and compassion. I have also read in Aftonbladet that Janine Alm Ericson wants to settle tax policy with the Liberals. I've made a deal with the Liberals many times. It's a party that you can settle things with. They have their problems and shortcomings to deal with, but basically it is possible to settle with them about job reforms. Janine Alm Ericson writes in this article that she wants to change taxes and that the Green Party has long been pushing the issue of reducing employers' contributions. How? What you are pushing now is for them to be raised by 20 billion for young people. It is a shock increase in employers' contributions. She is also concerned about marginal taxes and wants to discuss removing the military tax. In reality, in the budget you are presenting, there is a huge increase in marginal taxes for teachers and specialist nurses and others. Janine Alm Ericson writes that the Environmental Party wants to look widely at the incentives to work in Sweden, and on the board of the Riksdag you are proposing special salary tax for the elderly that makes it significantly less profitable for companies to hire older people. What you say and what you do is quite the opposite of each other. You say you want more jobs, and you put forward proposals to restrict RUT. How's this going together, Janine Alm Ericson?
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-422	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that Jakob Forssmed began with the need to take joint decisions forward and stand strong in the difficult time that is now coming. As far as tax issues are concerned, I hope I can correct some of the questions. First of all, I would like to raise the issue of tax on generosity. Jakob Forssmed has already been upset in previous line shifts that we say they are making cuts although they are not making any cuts just because they do not agree to it. Then we can see that there is no tax on generosity either in the Government's proposal. There is, on the other hand, a tax deduction that has been removed. All the money previously received by the government on the deductions goes back to civil society. In addition, we have tabled an amending budget which provides additional money for civil society. We think it is extremely important to strengthen everyone who works hard to have a dignified reception in Sweden and everyone who works hard for us to have international solidarity. Yes, it is true that we take a very positive view of the Liberals' proposal for a tax review. As Jakob Forssmed noted, much of what we want to pursue and what we can imagine being on the table is already in the article in Aftonbladet. I do not think that in this House and during this budget debate we should raise other tax proposals, but only what Mr Jakob points out shows that we need to take a greater approach and see how we can have a tax system that meets the challenges of the future in many different ways.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-425	Mr President, I would like to Janine Alm Ericson says that this is not the time or place to highlight other tax proposals. But this is where you come with your tax proposals. This is where you come with increased employer's fees. This is where you come with deteriorations in RUT. This is where you come with special payroll tax for the elderly. This is where you come with greatly increased marginal taxes for people who work. These are all things that you point out and feel that you are not in favour, but rather want to go in the other direction. You sit in the government one and make proposals which are contrary to what you write in the debate articles in Aftonbladet that you want to do. It is clear that it will be debated in the Swedish Parliament. We Christian Democrats are proposing increased taxes on chemicals to finance lower taxes on jobs, but you are proposing increased taxes on jobs. We propose increased taxes on waste incineration to force more recycling, and you propose increased taxes on craft jobs. We are proposing an increase in the amount of CO2 in vehicle tax to steer towards more environmentally friendly cars, and you are proposing that more people should pay government employment tax. We propose reduced VAT on simpler repair services, and you propose increased tax on RUT services. These are two completely different ways to face the reality that Janine Alm Ericson is talking about. If we are to cope with the future, we must reduce taxes on labour and make services cheaper, not more expensive, as your proposals mean. It's good that you have an opinion, that you have goals. However, if you put forward proposals that go against what you claim to stand for, you will have problems with their relation to reality. As far as tax on generosity is concerned, Janine Alm Ericson can call it anything. But the fact remains; there will be higher tax on gifts after the turn of the year. The fact remains that non-profit organisations are calling for this proposal not to be implemented. But at least you do.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-430	Mr President, I would like to I note that Jakob Forssmed may call things what he wants, but those who debate against him should stick to a certain way of speaking. The budget and the proposal that we are debating here today, which is on the table, we fully support. However, Jakob Forssmed's list of the various taxes and camps we stand in shows that we may need a greater overhaul. Then we can look at what is relevant in the situation that Sweden now faces and what will be better in the future. It feels like we have been more open and interested in new solutions than the Christian Democrats have been. With regard to the increase in employers' contributions for young people, it is fascinating that the bourgeois still defend this reform, even though a rather small result has been seen. As far as the chemical tax is concerned, we welcome that proposal. It's just that it's for investigation now. It has been shown in the past that it will not be possible to implement as quickly as is proposed from several bourgeois quarters. That is why we are asking to come back to this issue. However, we are in favour of this approach.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-434	Mr President, I would like to After my speech, Janine Alm Ericson asked me for a reply. In parallel with answering Janine Alm Ericson's questions, I tried to ask counter-questions. They were about the government's actions when the EU is now setting new emission limits for vehicles that will apply in the future. The government has received criticism from us but also from Janine Alm Ericson's colleagues in the European Parliament. There, Sweden has pushed for us not to be as ambitious as we should be. Instead, Sweden has pushed to allow higher emission limits than the European Commission has proposed and should do in principle. I would like to comment on this, because it cannot possibly be the policy of the Green Party or the government. In the last shift, we were talking about green tax exchange. I was going to continue on that theme. It is partly a question of intelligently raising environmental taxes in order to allow room for reducing taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. It is a principle on which we have agreed and which the Center Party maintains but which, unfortunately, the Green Party has been forced to abandon as a result of the tax policy of the Left Party and Social Democrats in terms of jobs and entrepreneurship. But it is also about what environmental taxes are being proposed. What the government and the Green Party now have in mind is, on the one hand, a world-unique tax on farmers' manure and, on the other hand, a tax at a distance, in the form of a kilometre tax. It is not a tax on emissions but tax on every kilometre of heavy traffic – trucks – drive, whether they drive with the smartest, cleanest technology or the one that shits down the most. It is a policy that strikes the countryside. It is another way of forcing closures of the world's most modern and environmentally friendly agriculture, the Swedish. Why this unwise environmental policy, Janine Alm Ericson?
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-439	Mr President, I would like to I do not know whether the Center Party should stand here asking for the least responsible environmental policy. In our previous change of line, we noted that the Center Party said no to increased energy taxes. This is something that the business community is asking for in order to get more pressure in the transition. Instead, the Centre Party talks about different parts of the budget that they feel they can make a good point about. But it turns out that the Center Party has no real policy in its budget to reduce climate emissions and increase work for a better environment. Emil Källström's favorite expression for the day seems to be duttpolitik. But I'd rather see posts that make a difference than nothing at all. I would like to turn it around and ask Emil Källström what the Center Party intends to do to reduce emissions. What does the Center Party itself have to do if all the government proposals are so bad?
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-442	Mr President, I would like to Let me answer the question first. The Center Party presents the most ambitious policy for a green tax shift in which jobs and entrepreneurship become cheaper. It is financed by increasing the tax on environmentally harmful activities. We have a lot of suggestions. In total, we are talking about over 20 billion green tax exchanges over the next four years. There's the answer, Janine Alm Ericson. I asked two questions. And now I'm the one who's been asking for a line on you. I'm the one asking you questions, Janine Alm Ericson. I hope the tour up to the podium will be worth the trouble. I would like to know why the government is acting in such a way in Brussels that we have lower emission limits on a European level. When it really comes to, when it really means something, when we talk about how the European Union of 28 countries should act, then the Green Party and the Social Democrats act in such a way that the level of ambition is reduced. How can this be? I have asked three times; now it is the fourth. I want an answer to that. So do your fellow Members of the European Parliament. They're just as critical. The same applies to environmental taxes and measures. We need to focus on what produces results. A lot of the tax changes that you announce and that you call environmental taxes are about forcing out the world's most modern and environmentally friendly farmers in favour of foreign production that has significantly lower environmental standards. It is a question of introducing a kilometre tax, i.e. a tax at a distance in itself and not on emissions. These are anti-intellectual proposals that, overall – environmental problems are global – mean greater environmental impact, greater environmental impact and worse environmental policies. We have to do the right things. We have to deliver when it really is – in Brussels, in Paris, wherever it may be. And we must choose the instruments that lead the right way. The Green Party is failing both.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-447	Mr President, I would like to I note that Emil Källström is also asking questions about my question. But I will gladly respond to the new emission limits. There are two answers really. Changes in measurement methods do not make the requirements any easier. But it may look that way, based on the numbers. It means, in essence, a tightening up. You know if you're looking into it a little bit more than just following the media image. That is also the way we voted in favour of the proposal which is now on the table because it makes it easier and faster for the industry to change. And it will have better effects in the short term. We think that is important. The Center Party often talks about green tax exchange. But only tax reductions are not green tax exchanges, no matter how many times you say that, Emil Källström. Otherwise, I am also pleased that we seem to agree to take a strong stance in both climate and environmental policy. I hope we can find collaboration on that in the future.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-452	Mr President, I would like to Sweden can make investments and expand welfare while welcoming people from other countries. Our modern history shows that these ambitions are not mutually exclusive. It's the other way around. They go hand in hand. Investments and increased welfare are the best response to the current refugee situation. The fact that many people come at the same time clearly poses major challenges for the reception systems. And that requires a lot of effort here and now. But we must also look at the long term. Sweden has long been a country that many people have come to. We have received many for several periods in the past. At the same time, we have built a world-class prosperity. Then, as now, some claimed it was an impossible task. Today, there are probably many of us who think that things have gone quite well. Today, we are a richer country than at previous periods of great refugee reception, but the wealth is unfortunately more unequally distributed. It has to change. Those who come here will be given the opportunity to help build the country. The first step is to make sure that we invest in all the people who live here, those who have lived here for a long time and those who come here now. We live at a time when the political choices are clear. In the budget presented by the Left Party and the Government, employment and education reforms are a key element. Welfare embraces new areas. Child poverty is combated in practice, and women's conditions are central. This year we have already increased unemployment benefit, long-term sickness benefit and maintenance allowance for single parents. The budget proposes that the precipice be removed from 1 January. This improves the economy for a great many people, not least for parents and thus also for their children. Add to that that we are now making extensive new investments of nearly SEK 2 billion aimed at children. It is about welfare reforms and combating child poverty. Then I think everyone will understand that the living conditions of very many people will be greatly improved. These include reforms such as free medicines for children, eyeglass allowances for children and young people, increased standards for child support, support for free summer holiday activities, free dental care for all up to 23 years of age and reduced fees in the cultural school. There will be more employees at leisure homes but also in social services when working to meet the needs of vulnerable children. There will be new healthy money for playgrounds at schools and preschools. The picture is quite clear: Many children and young people will have better living conditions. This is also how child poverty is combated in real terms. That is why the bourgeoisie rejects almost all of these reforms. Contraception is also made free of charge for all up to 20 years of age. Young women's right to their sexuality should be acknowledged. Women should not miss a breast cancer bundle because they cannot afford the fee for the mammography examination. Now we propose that the fee be removed. Older pensioners should not have to give up a doctor's appointment because they cannot afford it. Visits to outpatient care are now free of charge for more than 250 000 85-plusers. The main beneficiaries are so-called poor pensioners, that is, women. In addition, a special effort is being made in primary care to work with women's health and an effort to meet the large increase in mental illness among young people. Youth clinics are strengthened and made more accessible. So welfare is strengthened and embraces new areas. The Center Party chooses to call this small dutts. But to miss a cancer trick in the chest because you don't afford the visit to the mammography or as an old person can't afford to go to a doctor, that's no small thing. It is absolutely crucial to people's conditions. Health is central. But an expanded welfare is not the hallmark of the bourgeoisie. Nor is it the fight for women's living conditions or the fight against child poverty. On the other hand, the citizens will receive a gold medal in terms of tax cuts, not to mention the bravery they show when they warn against the tax increases that are now going to hit so-called ordinary wage earners. Sure, those who earn 50 000 kroner a month will receive a tax increase equivalent to a chip bag a month when the job tax deduction is stepped off. But you know what? Actually, I think they can handle it. My problem is that this tax increase is too small. The re-benefits are too little, given that equality needs to be increased and welfare extended. Either we invest in better quality and enhanced welfare, in more jobs, in education, in housing construction, in a society built on equality that creates faith in the future. Or we are taking a path where constant cuts are in focus, where reduced taxes, privatisations and the market are to solve everything, where a low-wage market is to be subsidised through tax subsidies or imposed by legislative changes and where inequality thrives because it is fattened through political decisions. This in a future in which man is confronted with man and the core of welfare is shrinking and shrinking. We know that the bourgeois parties have chosen the path. They express a competition among themselves for who can lower the tax most, and where they like to shine with their creativity. Liberals are the party that goes the farthest and stands up because they want to increase income inequality in society. The Moderates propose a sixth job tax deduction and pretend that it is those with the lowest income who earn the most from it, when it is the opposite. I guess it's hard to justify that someone who already has a lot of things should have more. The Center is throwing 15 billion into a totally ineffective reform. I guess that's what they say about their economic policy. While the vast majority realise and understand that expenditure needs to increase, the overall right wing chooses to propose a reduction in expenditure ceilings and a reduction in expenditure of as much as 16 billion next year and 74 billion in 2019. At a time when Sweden's population is growing so it is creaking and the demographic changes are here, they want us to make extensive savings and cuts or refrain from reforms in welfare. But lower the taxes, we will. You save the sick and the unemployed, and then everything is possible. However, when it comes to tax cuts, we would like them to be bigger and more extensive. We can see what it looks like in the tables we have before us. Medical care and care are something that should be cut into. The center goes the furthest and removes the salaries of 12,000 nurses. Savings are proposed for Komvux, higher education places and labour market policies. High unemployment while having matching problems does not seem to be a problem in the world of bourgeoisie. At the same time, we have a huge housing shortage. People can't leave home. Moving away from home remains a dream for a young person. Moving where the jobs are means sleeping on the couch or in a wardrobe in the second, third or fourth hand and often to usury rentals. Nor does it seem to be a problem for the bourgeoisie and the Swedish Democrats. They reject state aid for the construction of new energy efficient rental apartments linked to rental levels and aid for the rehabilitation of the million-dollar programmes. But tax subsidies to hand in shirts at the dry cleaners or crop apple trees in private gardens, that's fine. Sure, some welfare reforms accept the bourgeoisie. But overall, you cut down, and you cut into the common. It weakens the economy of the most vulnerable and puts every ambition on reducing taxes. For what are children's living conditions against being able to lower the tax? What is the value of access to healthcare against a tax reduction? What are more employees in care for the elderly, social services and fritis against reduced taxes? What are biodiversity and climate investments worth when the tax is to be reduced most for those who earn the best? And what is financial security worth to the sick and the unemployed when tax can be reduced for those who are healthy and have jobs? With this budget, we are taking steps towards a better society. But as Sweden now grows so it creaks they need to step up and get bigger. Now, Mr President, it is important to equip people so that they can take jobs such as sheet metal workers, construction workers, teachers, nurses and nurses. We have many shortage jobs and activities that can now get much-needed labour. Dwellings need to be built. As the family grows, many tend to move to something larger or expand. Now Sweden needs to do it. It's time for another floor in the welfare building. With that, I call for this budget to be approved.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-484	Mr President, I would like to The government and you in the Left Party are putting massive tax increases on jobs and entrepreneurship. Yet an 84-year-old with home care and low pension will pay SEK 2,532 more and get SEK 2,532 less to move with. Why?
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-485	Mr President, I would like to This is a budget that proposes more employees in care for the elderly. Unfortunately, the Christian Democrats reject it. We think it is absolutely necessary to ensure that there are more employees so that you have more time for the individual old and their needs. We think that is entirely reasonable. In this budget, we also propose a reduction in taxes on pensioners. That too is much-needed. For example, we propose free medical visits for 85-plusers. It is also a good policy. Unfortunately, the Christian Democrats reject this reform. Sure, I also find it worrying that the charge in the care of the elderly should be increased. Those with the lowest incomes are not affected by the fact that the tax is designed in such a way, but yes, it is worrying, and I would have liked to have abstained from it. Unlike Jakob Forssmed, I think it is perfectly reasonable to raise taxes for those who are already well-off and to spend money on the common, such as more employees in elderly care or more money for health care. The money is really needed. They are needed better there than for anyone who earns 55 000 to retain all the tax cuts received during the eight bourgeois years. In fact, I think that $30 a month on an income of 55,000 is not unreasonable. Rather, it should be a bigger increase so that we got even more employees in elderly care or even more care places in hospitals. It's necessary.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-491	Mr President, I would like to It is good that Ulla Andersson admits that there will be an increased rate in the home care service for those who have great care needs. That's who we're talking about. Those who make an individual visit to a doctor, even if it is a high-income person, should receive it free of charge, but those who have a large need for care should receive a higher rate in the home care service. The Left Party makes that kind of priority. That is not how our priorities look. We reject the increase in the home-care rate that you, Ulla Andersson, are proposing. When you stand in the speaker's chair, it often sounds to you like you can never suggest anything like that, but it's more of everything to everyone, and it's no problem at all to put taxes on jobs and businesses. You never see that side of the budget. Here we see it when you set priorities. It is more important for a high-income person who has turned 85 to receive a free doctor's visit than for those with high care needs to retain the home-care rate. That is also a priority.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-494	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps I should remind Jakob Forssmed that during the time that his party was in the government, the tax was reduced by 140 billion. It could have been used for many welfare reforms. If you, Jakob Forssmed, had only used half for improved health care, care for the elderly, more money for school, preschool and so on, we would have had a completely different social development than we have today. We had more people at work. People had been given better opportunities. That is the case, and Jakob Forssmed knows it very well. If we look at your priorities over the eight years, we can see that it was always the ones with the most money in their wallets that came out best. That was the systematic nature of your economic policy. Now we have presented a reform of 2 billion for more employees in care for the elderly. I would like to say that it is very much in demand. People are rushing too much. It's not good for their health. It's not good for their work environment. Nor is it good for the elderly, for you must have time when you meet an elderly person in need of care. You reject that. In our model you get free visits to health care regardless of income if you are 85 plus. There will also be a number of directors, but general welfare is so central and important that we think it is a minor problem. Jakob Forssmed stands and barks at us because we raise taxes. We use them to invest in welfare, to ensure that people get jobs and even to build housing. We want subsidies to build rental apartments so that people get sheltered, get a dwelling. You think that's totally reprehensible, but you'd be happy to spend tax money turning in shirts at the dry cleaners. I think that is a completely wrong priority.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-499	Mr President, I would like to I will start by saying a few words about the serious events of the last few weeks. We live in a troubled time, and we in Sweden share serious challenges with our surrounding world. Universal values such as openness, solidarity and the inviolability of human dignity are under attack in an increasing number of places in our world. The abominable acts in Paris and the elevated threat level in Sweden are a sharp reminder that the threat of terror is a reality for all of us, as well as here in Sweden. We'll do everything we can to protect ourselves. I note that the other parties share the Government's ambition and that we in Sweden are united in our fundamental task of safeguarding citizens' security and freedom. We must never be paralysed by the threats, but they must be met with firm determination, determination to stand up together for the open society we live in and want to live in. At the same time, regular work must continue even in difficult situations. It's one way to stand up to the threats. My task today is to argue for the economic policy that the government considers best for Sweden. That, too, is one way to stand up to the threats. It is in this spirit that I am taking part in this debate. Mr President, I would like to The 2016 Budget Bill has the title "Investment for Sweden" because Sweden's challenges must be met with investments. All investments proposed are fully financed. It is a responsible economic policy that creates security and stability. Unlike short-term, inefficient and, at worst, completely unfunded tax cuts, government investments will yield socio-economic returns over a longer time horizon. The budget proposal is a further step in this direction and is based on an agreement between the government and the Left Party. The foundation for our future prosperity, both as individuals and as a society, is that everyone who can work should also work. It requires a job policy in which we make demands on each other but also jointly support each other. Any investment for more jobs proposed by the government is an expression of such a job policy. We demand that those who do not have training or whose qualifications are no longer in demand must be ready to change and perhaps completely change their profession. But our employment policy also means investments that create opportunities for people to educate themselves in the middle of life. The government's employment policy requires that those who do not have a job must be ready to go where jobs or education are, but it is also a job policy that makes it possible by investing in housing and infrastructure. Sweden should be a society where we demand from each other that we work according to our ability and where we take responsibility for everyone who can work should have the opportunity to do so. Through the investments we propose, a job policy is implemented where high expectations go hand in hand with more opportunities, a policy that creates jobs, growth and confidence in the future for everyone in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to Historically many people are fleeing war, destruction and terrorism. It is men, women, children and young people who flee for their lives. Many people seek protection in Europe, and not least in Sweden, to an extent that we are not used to. The depth of the ongoing humanitarian crisis in the world is illustrated by the fact that the very large number of people who are currently coming to Europe are still a small part of all those who are fleeing the world. Since the government submitted the budget bill, the number of people coming to Sweden has increased very quickly, and although it is obvious that more will be required, the proposals in the budget bill are crucial for us to meet the challenge we face. In the budget, the Government proposes strong efforts to ensure that new arrivals get to work faster than today, including through fast track and faster validation. The compensation to municipalities for reception is greatly increased, and we are strengthening civil society in its important work to facilitate the establishment of new arrivals in Sweden, a work that this autumn has proved to be such a strength. It has really shown what a fantastic country Sweden is. But at the same time, Mr President, I must emphasise the strain that the large number of people who come to Sweden means for our society. Employees at the Migration Agency and in Sweden's municipalities work day and night to manage an arranged reception, find beds and arrange food for the day. Just as Erik Ullenhag so nicely thanked them, I would also like to thank all those who in our municipalities and county councils and at our authorities do an amazing job. The task, however, is overpowering. Municipalities lex Sarah reports themselves, The Swedish Civil Protection Agency and Preparedness Agency warns that important societal functions cannot cope with the effort. The Finnish Immigration Service can no longer guarantee sleeping places for the people who come here. Sweden is a rich country, but it is also a small country. We have reached the limit of our capacity. For Europe as a continent, the number of people seeking asylum is manageable, but the uneven distribution makes the situation untenable. It becomes clear that responsibility for those seeking protection in Europe must be shared by all countries, not just by some. The measures announced by the government yesterday must be seen in the light of this. In a situation where Europe's countries are unable to take joint responsibility for people on the run, the government finds no alternative. In addition to the acute and practical problems that Sweden is currently facing, the migration crisis also creates economic policy challenges. We'll deal with them. The confidence of the surrounding world in Sweden's public finances is a fundamental prerequisite for any policy that the government wants to pursue, and in order to safeguard credibility and long-term sustainability, the government will also continue to show firmness in economic policy. The Government is therefore carefully examining possible measures to ensure that expenditure does not exceed the expenditure ceilings decided by the Riksdag, and there is intensive work going on to find savings and other measures. The government stands by its position not to shy away from the priorities required by the situation. This government will take responsibility for public finances at any time. Mr President, I would like to When Stefan Löfven was elected Prime Minister, he had, in accordance with the announcement he made before the elections, offered the bourgeois parties negotiations for broader political cooperation. They all rejected and referred to the fact that, with the support of the Left Party, the government would have more votes on its draft state budget than the bourgeois parties. It turned out to be a miscalculation. The Swedish Democrats fell about a year ago the government's budget and also announced that they will lay down any budget that does not dance after their pipe. The government's proposal for a solution was then, and still is, negotiations across block borders to find majorities. But the bourgeois parties instead advocated the agreement which then became the December agreement. One can have views on it, and many have had it, but since Sweden had to be governed, the government parties chose to take responsibility and enter into such an agreement that would be valid for eight years. After the budget bill for 2016 was negotiated and submitted to the Riksdag, the bourgeois parties chose to make the agreement. I did not intend here and now to immerse myself in the advisability of breaking an agreement that was concluded less than a year ago and also wanted to see introduced as a law. I can only say that the analysis I carried out in this House barely a year ago is now once again valid. Should Sweden be able to be governed now, again, there are only two options: cooperation with each other or cooperation with the Swedish Democrats. The bourgeois parties have been clear that they do not want to cooperate with the Swedish Democrats, and then there is only one cross-block cooperation. The main obstacle to broad agreements is not that one feels differently, as long as one shares fundamental values of democracy and people's equal value. What matters is whether you want to cooperate or not. In all cases where the bourgeois have accepted talks with the government, broad agreements have also been reached. This applies, for example, to defence, grades, amortisation requirements and most recently migration and establishment – agreements that have been good for Sweden and which show that political cooperation can drive politics forward and be a way to take responsibility for Sweden. From the government's side, we stand by the fact that Sweden needs more cooperation, and we are still ready to hold talks with all serious parties to create long-term agreements that strengthen our nation. Cooperation is good for Sweden.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-521	Mr President, I would like to Just a few days after the government voted on its ordinary amending budget, an additional amending budget was presented, which chooses to increase in the order of SEK 11 billion to continue to fund its immigration policy only for the rest of this year. It is also trying to give the impression that this money will go to the core business of welfare, despite the fact that the bill explicitly states that it will fund refugee-related costs. It has to do with the fact that we are beginning to understand so slowly that taxpayers' propensity to finance this policy is beginning to fail. I have two fairly simple questions for the Minister of Finance:
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-523	Mr President, I would like to It is with almost 10 billion extra that we now support municipalities and county councils. It is basically part of an agreement between the government and the four bourgeois parties that was a way to jointly take responsibility for the situation that Sweden and the world are in right now. An important part of this agreement was just an extra addition to municipalities and county councils. The resources have been allocated according to the number of newly arrived asylum seekers the municipalities have. Special emphasis has been placed on the reception of many children in the municipality. In this way, we have distributed the money. Then it is up to the municipalities themselves to use them depending on where you see the greatest needs. I assume that the municipalities will use them effectively and effectively. I can imagine that many municipalities will choose to invest in social services or school, for example, but it is of course up to the municipalities to decide what they do with the money, just as with all other general state grants to the municipalities. In addition, the Government has put forward a number of proposals to increase the cost-effectiveness of the reception system itself, including a new form of housing for unaccompanied minors. Of course, in the area of migration and other areas we will continue to look at how we can make efficiency improvements and cost savings in different ways.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-527	Mr President, I would like to In a follow-up motion to the supplementary amending budget, the Swedish Democrats have urged that there be a guarantee that these appropriations will go precisely to the core business of welfare, in order to make it easier for the municipalities to carry out what they are primarily going to do. We have also questioned the frivolousness of choosing to borrow to the full amount rather than to look at the existing migration and integration budget and to turn and turn every stone around to find alternative funding, that is to say, to try to borrow as little as possible and not to push over the problems of future generations, as is de facto the case when choosing to borrow the extra funding. I also have a strong concern that the money will disappear into a large black hole with inefficient local labour market measures or subsidised fake jobs for new arrivals. The government has proved to be creative in terms of that kind of expenditure. This applies not only to this government but also to the previous government, to be added. These are expenditures that cannot in any way be claimed to be part of the core business of welfare. Why do you choose to spend this money unconditionally? How, then, can one guarantee – which one obviously cannot – that they will go precisely to the core business of welfare?
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-530	Mr President, I would like to It's interesting to listen to Oscar Sjöstedt. He seems to be against the general state grants to municipalities and county councils. A very large part of the state grants to municipalities and county councils are general. We do not make precise demands on what the money is to be used for. Different parts of the country look different, and then you need to use resources in different ways. What is right to do in Stockholm's inner city is probably not right to do in Sveg. What is good to do in Södertälje may not fit at all in Vilhelmina. What works well in Höör may not work in Halmstad. That is why we have municipal self-government at municipal and county level, and that is why the majority of the support for municipalities is given in the form of a general state grant. It's interesting to listen to Oscar Sjöstedt. I assume that the Swedish Democrats in their continued budget work will abolish the general state grants and thereby try to govern county councils and municipalities from Stockholm. I think it is wrong with more central control and do not at all share the opinion of the Swedish Democrats that those who sit in Stockholm are the ones who know best how things should be handled in the country.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-533	Mr President, I would like to I have two questions for the Minister for Finance. The Prime Minister stated before the election that a government led by him will account for whether each decision leads to more or fewer jobs. Since then, many have pointed out that your overall budget will at best lead to no change at all, while several assessors point out that it is likely to lead to lower employment and fewer hours worked. The last time the other day, there were studies pointing that way. As Erik Ullenhag pointed out, there are no qualified assessors who say that the overall content of your budget leads to more people getting jobs and more people working overall. My first question is this: what do the Finance Minister himself see as signs that more people will work, that there will be more jobs and that there will be more hours worked in the economy?
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-537	Mr President, I would like to We can now, for example, take note of the latest forecasts of the development of unemployment and employment both from the ESV and from SCB, which show that employment is rising and unemployment is falling. In addition, the government has a series of strong budgetary measures to boost employment. Among other things, we deal with several of the problems that industry usually points out are the main obstacles to hiring. It is about not finding staff with the right skills. There we are undertaking a great leap in knowledge. It's about the infrastructure not working. We are making a historic investment in railway maintenance. When you find people who do not live in the same region, they do not manage to find housing so that they can move to where the jobs are. That is also something that we are fixing in this budget. The government makes the overall assessment, as we describe in the budget bill, that with the government's policy employment will rise and unemployment will fall. Ulf Kristersson believes it is important to account for the impact of measures on employment. You have said in the past that the reduced youth unemployment contribution has been your most important measure in order to find more jobs for young people. Now you are backing down and you no longer want to keep the reduced employers' contribution for young people. Then, of course, I wonder based on Ulf Kristersson's own way of reasoning how many fewer jobs he thinks it will be created for young people with his rescheduling of politics.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-541	Mr President, I would like to I note that the government has an overall assessment, a little unclear how, that lands in that there will be more people who will work. I note that, on the other hand, the Swedish people, including Swedish business leaders, make about the same assessment as our experts, that is, there is little credibility in terms of the government's job ambitions. As far as the social security contribution for young people is concerned, we draw precisely that conclusion. We choose to focus, for good reason. We are revising our previous position. We believe that the current one is more accurate. Everything else is equal, we put the efforts to reduce costs on the youngest, the most difficult to enter, the least educated. That's where the stakes are most useful. My second question concerns public finances. As I said in my introduction, I realise that migration expenditure of an extra 30 or 40 billion for a financial year poses considerable difficulties. I regard it as a common problem and a common responsibility. I don't blame the government alone for this. It may be important to say that. However, the constant signals of the Minister for Finance are currently undermining confidence that old regulations are in force. It is quite clear that the first signal concerned the surplus target. The second signal was that the expenditure ceilings might not last. The third signal was that it is no longer certain that the krona-by-krona principle in terms of funding is up to date. We have to do with this significant automatic increase in expenditure in systems that the government does not have. Added to this are the government's own deliberate increase in expenditure. My question is very simple: does the Minister of Finance intend to fully finance the government's reforms from the spring 2016 bill and will there be an amending budget during the year which also means expenditure reductions?
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-546	Mr President, I would like to I note that Ulf Kristersson does not answer the question of how many fewer jobs for young people he thinks it will be with his own politics. It is interesting to note because Ulf Kristersson very often points out how important it is to properly report the effects of his policy. As far as overall economic policy is concerned, I note that it is very important that we have succeeded in halving public deficits. Ulf Kristersson says that it is important to stick to the framework. I can note that the previous government violated the fiscal framework, not only as other independent experts said, but also in accordance with their own budget proposals. We, from the government, have changed that policy. We have halved the deficits and are now pursuing a responsible economic policy. In the crisis situation that we find ourselves in with a larger number of asylum seekers in Sweden than we have ever seen before – it could be almost twice as many as we have ever seen before – it is not appropriate to use the krona-by-krona principle to finance the increased expenditure. Therefore, in the supplementary amending budget that has been tabled, we have not financed the measures for crowns. It is, moreover, something on which I understood that we agreed, because we have received support for this policy from the bourgeois parties. As far as I know, you do not have proposals to finance this crown for the crown, but you support the supplementary amending budget. To what extent will there be an extraordinary amending budget next year? There is, of course, one in connection with our amending budget. Of course, if an additional amending budget is needed, it will depend entirely on the impact of the measures we are now going to take to reduce the number of asylum seekers. The more forceful these measures are and the more impact they have, the more likely there will be no spring change budget. But it's too early to make a statement.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-551	Mr President, I would like to Before we go into what we disagree on, let me stress the importance of taking joint responsibility in a crisis situation in Sweden. I think that is something that people expect in the strained situation that Sweden is in both in terms of terrorism and in terms of refugee reception. Having said that, I have a couple of questions for Magdalena Andersson on economic and employment policy. Magdalena Andersson was a little brave just now. Magdalena Andersson used the Swedish Financial Control Agency's new forecast to provide support for her own policy. If you read it, you can also see that they are making an analysis of what happens to government employment policy. Well, the effect of the reforms now voted through in the Riksdag is that the number of hours worked in Sweden is decreasing. My first simple question to Magdalena Andersson is then: Is the Financial Control Agency wrong, or are you doing the wrong things? The second question concerns what I was discussing in my speech. I will quote what Magdalena Andersson said as the new Minister of Finance: It has become very clear that the barn is completely empty. It's not a set table we come to – it's completely scraped off. If your table's still there. ..................................................... It was a statement that Magdalena Andersson had some problems with because very few economists shared the picture that Magdalena Andersson had. I share Magdalena Andersson's analysis that we are now in a situation where we will have to borrow to cope with the acute crisis. Then it sounds completely different. Magdalena Andersson points out that it is a good time to borrow money. Does Magdalena Andersson seriously mean that the difference between the table and a good time to borrow money is that the government's current budget has been in force for four months and 24 days? Magdalena Andersson is welcome to tell us how in four months and 24 days we have gone from a table and empty barns to an economy where we have the opportunity to borrow.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-559	Mr President, I would like to Yes, when we took over a year ago we had a deficit of 2% of the bnp. This is not a good situation in an upward trend. It was necessary to break that trend and start pursuing a more responsible economic policy. So has the government. In the forecast, deficits have halved. This, of course, means that we are in a completely different position than we were a year ago. Of course, a deficit of 1% provides quite different opportunities to face a crisis of this kind, with increased borrowing than it would have been if we had a deficit of 2% of GDP. We know that the lower limit of the deficit accepted by the EU is 3%. Had we remained in a situation of 2% deficit and allowed the deficit to increase through increased borrowing, we would have been dangerously close to the 3% limit that the EU has. But, of course, with a half-deficited deficit, there are quite different opportunities to meet this challenge also with an increase in borrowing. I think it is good that we have been able to cooperate on the additional amending budget that we have submitted to Parliament and, of course, hope that we will be able to continue to cooperate in various ways in order to jointly take responsibility for the situation in which Sweden finds itself.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-562	Mr President, I would like to I noticed that there was no review of the Swedish Financial Control Agency's forecast for hours worked. Please come back in that part! Magdalena Andersson started using the Swedish Financial Control Agency. I think the prognosis is well worth reading. What concerns me then is that we have a government that makes proposals that reduce the number of hours worked. As I understand it, it is also part of the unemployment target put forward by the government. Is it that politics is wrong, or is it that the Financial Control Agency is wrong? It would be interesting to find out. When it comes to why it's so interesting to talk about what happened in the past and how it looked, it's because if you don't understand what it looked like when the current left-wing government took over power, you risk doing the wrong things in the future. Magdalena Andersson is now trying to give the impression that the Swedish economy suddenly became very good after she became Minister of Finance. Let us therefore go back and look at the forecasts. The projections for BP 2016 estimated a deficit of 0.3 percentage points in financial savings. When the Swedish Financial Control Agency, again, makes forecasts in November 2016 for the deficits ahead, the deficit is SEK 40 billion higher than when the barns were empty. I'm having a bit of a hard time getting it together with the fact that the economy was really bad before. I have heard both Magdalena Andersson, the party secretary and all kinds of people say that the Swedish people will find that Sweden will be much better only their budget takes effect, because it does not apply yet. No, because it is the alliance budget that has been in force and which has also created a responsible economic policy. Is it not time, Magdalena Andersson, that you send a thank-you card to the previous government because it is now actually possible to borrow in a crisis situation? It does not bear the stamp of credibility, Magdalena Andersson, that in a few months you would have changed the table that had disappeared into a well-made table where we can borrow. I understand that Monica Green of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democrats believed that, but Magdalena Andersson probably has a hard time getting some other economic judge to believe in that statement of reality.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-569	Mr President, I would like to If we start with the Financial Control Agency, I can note, which is interesting, that they make the assessment that unemployment is falling very sharply in the coming years. They also estimate that unemployment will then increase at the end of the forecast period as more new entrants also enter the labour market. However, it is difficult to say anything other than that the ESV estimates unemployment to be falling very sharply. I also think that it is important and good with different assessors who make different evaluations and forecasts of how the government's policy will operate. Here we should not forget that there are many reforms that the government is carrying out where authorities have not looked very closely at the employment effects, such as the important investment we make for elderly care. This initiative makes it possible for more women to get out to work and to be able to work full time even though they have an elderly relative. We therefore have many proposals which have employment effects and which can affect the number of hours worked but which are not always reflected in the economic calculations developed by economists and which often have a greater impact on tax changes. When we presented our budget last autumn, it was a fully funded budget. Those were tough decisions we made back then. Then the bourgeois parties presented their budget motion, and then, like the government, it had financed measures. I think it is a good thing that after last autumn the bourgeois parties also went forward with a more responsible economic policy than the one they had carried out in government positions, but it is not possible to get away from increasing the deficit every year that the bourgeois parties and Erik Ullenhag sat in government. Between 2008 and 2014, the deficit increased each year. That is what it looks like after eight years with a bourgeois government. Now we have a Social Democratic and environmentalist government that reverses that trend, and we see declining deficits coming years.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-575	Mr President, I would like to I had a change of line with the chairman of the Committee on Finance, Fredrik Olovsson, about certain concerns in the strength of public finances that I could see. I wanted to be more specific with the Minister of Finance about the need for reforms in the labour market. Sweden is in a difficult position, as the Minister for Finance said from the speaker's seat. The reforms needed yesterday are far more urgent today. My view and that of the Christian Democrats is that we must now ensure that the labour market is broadened and that people with other qualifications and lower education are also able to find a job, because today we have a situation where 700 000 do not have upper secondary education. Then you need education, and you also need a wider labour market. One of the advantages of the RUT deduction is that it washes black jobs white or moves work from an unpaid to a paid sector where you can get paid, enter social security systems and so on. I think that's very good. It shows the openness of the government that it could be agreed to actually extend the RUT deduction on a few points of the migration agreement that was concluded. It would be good if the government could also back down on the reduction of the ceiling. I think we need to turn on many cranes now, and this is one of the cranes that will be important. My specific question is that although floating services and tree pruning are important, services are relatively rare. We put forward an idea that something that is done every week in Swedish homes, namely laundry, could become a clearer part of the RUT deduction by removing the limitation that the work must be done in your home. If the possibility of a laundry subscription is included in the RUT, we can achieve greater efficiency, and this, I think, could create considerably more jobs than the RUT changes that are now proposed. It would therefore be interesting to hear whether the government would be open to including such services in RUT.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-580	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting that Jakob Forssmed thinks it is important that people without upper secondary education should also be able to receive upper secondary education. It is therefore sad that the Christian Democrats do not support the government's great commitment to a new knowledge boost that will give so many more people the opportunity to get an education. It is also important that people with disabilities and thus a little further away from the labour market have the opportunity to enter the labour market, and so we are making a 10% expansion of Samhall and also increasing wage subsidies. I am not sure, but Jakob Forssmed might remind me: do the Christian Democrats support the expansion of Samhall, which is a way of giving more people who find it difficult to get into the labour market a foot in there? When more people enter the labour market, as it will be when we get new citizens with many seeking asylum in Sweden, it is important that we have a pragmatic approach and try to turn all the stones around to find solutions forward. Here, in connection with the agreement we reached on migration policy, we in the government have shown that we are prepared to be pragmatic and to turn around various stones, and I am, of course, prepared to do so. At the same time, it is important that we do so in the most cost-effective way possible so that we target tax money effectively rather than smudging out broad tax cuts that provide very little job per deposit. I think that's an important thing to have with us when we're thinking about how to move forward. That is why I really believe in subsidising individuals who find it difficult to enter the labour market rather than lowering tax rates for whole industries. There will be a lot of tax cuts before you get this extra job, and therefore it is usually more cost-effective to target it directly at the individual. This is based on the fact that it is easy for companies to use these subsidies, and I think we can work more to make it easier. I am absolutely prepared to discuss further how we can get more people who have now come to Sweden to also enter the labour market.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-586	Mr President, I would like to It is a good thing that the Minister of Finance is asking. We also want to expand Samhall. We are cutting you a lot when it comes to wage subsidies and employment subsidies. We think this is very important to give everyone the chance to work 100 percent of their ability. So there is no disagreement there more than that you are too bad in this too. If we are really going to broaden the labour market, I think the key is that it must be services that are not currently carried out or that are carried out unpaidly that can be moved and carried out as paid work so that contractual wages can be included in social security. The RUT reform has been successful in doing this. The enlargements that are taking place now are very good, but I see some problems. You don't move very often, unfortunately. We should move more often, and we have proposals to do so. You prune trees quite rarely. It's not good to do it more often either, because then the trees die. But there is an unfortunate restriction on laundry. It is a service performed weekly in Swedish households among families with children and the elderly who bend their backs to do this. It is a typical example of an area where you could actually do black jobs white, but above all move work from unpaid to paid by including the service in RUT. That is well in line with the spirit of the RUT reform, and I really think it is something to consider.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-590	Mr President, I would like to I am absolutely prepared to discuss all cost-effective ways of getting more people to work. I share Jakob Forssmed's view that the RUT deduction has been such a cost-effective measure. It is probably the most cost-effective tax reduction that the previous government did, and therefore we are also making a very small change in the RUT deduction. On the other hand, we are removing the reform with the expensive and inefficient employers' contributions for young people. It is an expensive and inefficient way to use our tax money. There we note that the Christian Democrats are also moving in position, and that is, of course, extremely welcome. I appreciate that the Christian Democrats also want to invest in long-term unemployed people who have different forms of disability. I am happy to continue to discuss wage support with Jakob Forssmed. It is good that there is broad support in the Riksdag to invest in people who are a little further away from the labour market so that they can get a foothold through, for example, wage support, wage subsidies and Samhall. It is a good part of the Christian Democrats' policy.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-593	Mr President, I would like to In a situation where the Minister of Finance is hovering on the target, let me be clear about Jakob Forssmed's question. It's good to extend the RUT deduction. It is good to take more steps to broaden the service sector and create more simple jobs. Here, too, it is good that we brought the government parties to extend the RUT deduction with IT services, floating services and gardening services. But it is absolutely right that more must be done. Since Magdalena Andersson took power together with the government, female entrepreneurship has drastically decreased in Sweden. This is largely due to a policy of signaling. The signals that are being sent out in terms of welfare standards and entrepreneurship are the same, but now the market is going to disappear and now it must be completely impossible to operate as an entrepreneur. A lot of people took this out in advance and chose not to start a business. We see how business start-ups have fallen considerably. The same was true of the RUT sector. Although the Minister of Finance says that there are marginal changes in RUT, a lot of entrepreneurs have heard the signal. They've decided not to start a business. They've decided not to hire. We also see how the RUT sector is still waiting for better information. One of the messages came when we together chose to expand the RUT sector, but I want more. When will the government back off from the very unfortunate deterioration of the RUT deduction? It was particularly unfortunate in that thousands of people perceived the signal and chose not to start RUT companies and thus not to create jobs.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-596	Mr President, I would like to The change we make of the roof of the RUT is an agreement between the government and the Left Party. We will stand by it. We from the government think that we should stick to agreements. However, it is interesting that Emil Källström addresses the fact that people do not want to start a business because they are afraid that the RUT deduction will deteriorate more than the change means. I myself am concerned that industry organisations and companies in the industry have alerted in such a way that many may have had the impression that the change is greater than it is. If Emil Källström is concerned about this in the same way that I am, maybe I and Emil Källström together can make an effort to inform that the change in the ceiling in RUT actually affects only 1% of buyers. Would Emil Källström be interested in such cooperation?
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-598	Mr President, I would like to Entrepreneurs are by their very nature long-term in their actions. The investments they make will last several years. If they choose to employ, the employment should at best last for a very long time. Then it is important to have long-term rules of play. What entrepreneurs who have not chosen to set up RUT companies are concerned about is not today's change when the Left Party takes influence and the ceiling deteriorates from 50 000 to 25 000, but that is what happens in stage two and step three. That is how signal policy works, that is, a direction is pointed out. There is great concern in the industry that this is a first step in debilitating a sector that has created a lot of jobs of the kind we need. It is good that the Minister for Finance is clear, and then clarity must apply over time. It must be clear that we are now once again on a journey where simple service jobs are growing, where more sectors, industries and activities are opened up to the benefits of RUT deductions. The deterioration of the RUT deduction should be a historical parenthesis that we can now forget. I hope that the government will abandon the deterioration. Clarity is needed to create the many thousands of simple jobs needed. It is good that agreements are kept. I very much hope that those parts of the previous migration agreement that are not just about RUT, but also that we are removing the requirement for collective agreements on YA jobs are also stuck, even though a number of the points we then agreed yesterday are no longer fixed. Sometimes reality changes quickly, and then you have to adapt politics. This is an area where more simple jobs, fewer rules and more steps are needed to create the jobs needed.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-602	Mr President, I would like to Emil Källström wishes us to break the agreement with the Left Party, but we will not. However, I did not really understand if Emil Källström thought it was important that we inform the RUT companies that the roof change is a small change and that it is possible to start a company exactly as before. There's a lot of women who start businesses in the business, and they're gonna do it. I did not really get the answer to whether Emil Källström was interested in taking an initiative with me to inform more people that it is possible to continue to start a business in the industry. The offer remains, of course, and I will listen a little more to Emil Källström after the debate in which we can together inform the industry that there are good opportunities to continue to run companies in the industry. It would be good for Sweden and for entrepreneurship.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-605	Mr President, I would like to The extremely serious developments in our surrounding world, with increased power involvement in the Syria conflict, a refugee crisis in Europe and increased fear of terrorist attacks in our neighbourhood, will shape the political dialogue for a long time to come. Added to this is the rapid global change through digitalisation and the sharing economy, which fundamentally changes the prerequisites for entrepreneurship and hence competitiveness. As if it were not enough, the transition to meet climate change is a burning necessity. A rapidly changing world also increases demands on our ability to adapt. It is about our ability to implement reforms that create more new jobs, strengthen welfare and increase our competitiveness – our ability to be at the forefront of international development. But not everything is gloomy. I also see great opportunities for our country. It is about opportunities to show that growth, innovation and entrepreneurship go hand in hand with reductions in emissions, fewer toxins and better economic balance. We will show that international competitiveness is possible to combine with high welfare ambitions and more resources for school, care and care. We have good conditions, but there are no fried sparrows flying from the sky. It requires that we choose to take advantage of the opportunities. Tax policy is a key element in meeting these challenges. Through taxes we control consumption, construction and job creation to a large extent. Through taxes, we determine people's willingness to start and run businesses, to invest and to create new jobs. It is a question of creating future tax revenue. The Center Party has taken responsibility for fiscal policy. With alliance budgets, tax revenues increased while incentives for entrepreneurship and work were strengthened. Between 2013 and 2014, revenues increased by approximately SEK 50 billion, to a total of just under SEK 1,600 billion, according to the government's government's report. Mr President, I would like to The companies are the key to our prosperity, the key to welcoming new Swedes, the key to economic change. And most important are small businesses, those that create four out of five new jobs and in my county of Jämtland nine out of ten. Creating conditions for small businesses to invest and grow is one of the most important tasks of the policy. In our budget motion, we have produced proposals for major and important structural reforms. We are putting forward proposals that will make it easier for companies to hire. We are proposing reforms that will make it easier for companies to make their first job, by removing the entire employer's contribution in the first few years, thus starting the journey towards becoming a larger company. We propose further reductions in employers' contributions to facilitate the hiring of young people by companies. We propose strengthening and extending the RUT deduction with more services to facilitate new service companies that in many cases have the opportunity to hire new Swedes. We go further than the migration agreement. The measures there are good but not enough. We propose rules for employee options that make it easier for small businesses to hire key employees. We are proposing reformed 3:12 rules that make it easier for small businesses to put capital into work. We are proposing an increase in the tax credit which favours small businesses in the first place. We are proposing reforms to state venture capital so that it can benefit the whole country. We propose rules that facilitate generational changes so that companies can survive and continue to grow as the founder retires. We are putting forward proposals to promote a green transformation of society and business. Tax policy will lay the foundations for growth throughout the country. One prerequisite for this is that transport and digital communication are facilitated and that the green industries agriculture and forestry are given the opportunity to be the hub for entrepreneurship and growth in Swedish rural areas. Mr President, I would like to In order to reduce the burden on the environment and to finance reforms for growth, we propose the introduction of a chemical tax. We propose phasing out the CO2 tax exemption, introducing taxes on waste incineration and environmental charges on fossil plastic bags. It is a green tax shift in practice. We are lowering taxes on what is needed, more companies and new jobs, and increasing taxes on what we do not want, emissions and environmental toxins. We are also putting forward proposals that will continue to make it profitable to work. We propose an increased layer limit for government income tax so that the marginal tax is kept down and we get more hours worked. We propose a reduced tax rate for those who want to work after they turn 65. We want to give people an incentive to remain active. Mr President, I would like to This is our alternative to a new tax policy, and it is our alternative to the policy put forward by the government. We want to make it cheaper to hire, not more expensive. We want citizens to keep more of their wages, not less. We want to lower the thresholds into the labour market, not raise them. Ultimately, the question is simple: Should we have higher taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship, or do we want more people who work and more people who run businesses and create new jobs? Reality should give an indication of the path we are facing. The challenges we are facing are great, but they also offer great opportunities. Ultimately, the path lies with ourselves. Sweden can and should be a country filled with opportunities for anyone who wants to contribute to a better country and a better world. That is why we need a new tax policy. With this, Mr President, I would like to endorse, as Emil Källström has done, the reservations expressed by the Center Party in the Committee on Finance's report No 1.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-620	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to agree with Ulf Kristersson's earlier motion here. Today in the morning it was many fathers and mothers who a little extra heavy pulled the stroller to preschool, not only because it is November cold and scary around Sweden but also because there is a growing concern that the political system does not work properly. Every day no longer feels as safe as it has before. Many pensioners sat on the bus to the cold grandchild and wondered where Sweden is going and how it will actually work here in the future. Students on bicycles were on their way to universities and colleges, and they wondered if this job market for the future really exists for them. People in the car on their way to work wondered what the future would be like. There is now a different tone in Sweden. There is another concern in Sweden. People wonder if life really rests on such stable foundations as has been used to in recent years. Although people may not put their finger on exactly what it is about, they have a strong understanding within them that if the future is to be good, it is based on the good management of economic policy and the exercise of the power given to us in this House in a healthy, sustainable and stable manner. More and more people now doubt this. They do not do it because Sweden comes from a bad position, quite the opposite. Sweden comes from a position where from 2006 to 2014 we had higher economic growth than almost all comparable countries and higher economic growth than countries that are often highlighted as examples, such as Germany and Austria. They do not do this because Sweden comes from a position of weak economy, on the contrary. In 2014, Sweden had the EU's strongest public finances when weighing up net public finances and public debt. They do not do so because we come from a long period of job losses, on the contrary. Here the jobs were 350,000 more, despite the economic crisis. They do not do this because employment in Sweden as a whole has been heading in the wrong direction, quite the opposite. During the year of the Alliance in power, exclusion decreased from 20 per cent to 14 per cent which, as Ulf Kristersson said earlier in the debate, was not only a significantly lower level, but the lowest level since this began to be measured. We had addressed the major underlying problems in the Swedish economy. One in ten persons of working age in Sweden was retired early in 2006. It was broken. Despite the major economic crisis that broke out in the world in 2008 with a major fall in economic demand, and where Sweden was very affected because almost half of our economy consists of the ability to export, Sweden managed the crisis well. Even the present government, which often expresses itself in words very negatively about the reforms made by the Alliance, writes in its own budget that the measures we implemented on the tax side and on the benefit side in order for more people to get into work had an effect on unemployment of about 1 – 2 percentage points. So the current government, Mr President, writes in its own budget that the policy pursued by the Alliance for more jobs was effective. The big difference between the crisis that has now been and the crisis we once had in the early 1990s is that when there was a crisis in the 1990s, half a million people, 500 000 people, became unemployed, while when the crisis broke out in 2008, Sweden, thanks to a responsible economic policy from the alliance government, was able to increase the number of people employed by 350 000. In short, there is a difference of 1 million jobs between a government that manages public finances, that takes responsibility for reforms for more jobs, that has shelters in politics and that works with active reforms so that more people will want to participate in the labour market and a government that does not take into account economic ramparts, that does not want Sweden to stand strong in the next economic crisis and that does not propose reforms for more jobs. Mr President, I would like to It is also the difference between the two budgetary options currently under discussion. In the proposals that come from the alliance parties, we protect shelters in the Swedish economy. We intend to stand ready when the crisis comes back in the next wave. We are therefore making sure to propose reforms so that more people will participate in the labour market. We make it more profitable to work, more profitable to enter the labour market and more profitable to remain in the labour market. We make it easier and cheaper to hire. This defines the conflict that exists in politics between us who want to take responsibility for public finances and want reforms for more people in work and those who say that the economy can be managed at another time and not here and now because it cannot be done and who say that reforms for more people to work are not needed. Instead, you can increase subsidies, increase transfers and be generally lax in financial management. Mr President, I would like to On one side of this conflict are the government's wide-ranging benefit systems and wide-ranging increases in insurance costs. Borrowing SEK 11 billion this year can be greatly understood in an emergency. However, we cannot understand that the government is borrowing SEK 11 billion at a cost pressure that seems to last over the years ahead without giving any explanation of how it will be financed over the years ahead. It is an irresponsible economic policy. Mr President, I would like to When it comes to labour supply, it is also irresponsible to strangle the job tax deduction, even though it is said in its own budget that it is effective. The RUT deduction is being strangled despite the fact that it is precisely these jobs that benefit those who have the most difficulty in the labour market. Mr President, I would like to In the very harsh situation we find ourselves in, it is not a responsible policy of the government to raise taxes by SEK 40 billion that to 90 percent strikes at jobs and growth. Mr President, I would like to It is clear to everyone that Sweden is in a very demanding position. We have a refugee disaster where solidarity and thoughtfulness are needed in combination. We have an embarrassing security situation which, if nothing else, costs money in the state budget. Sweden also has its own long-term challenges. We have a dependency ratio that is rising rapidly over the years to come. For decades we have become accustomed to the fact that 100 people who work support 70 who do not work. Now we are at the beginning of a steep rise where 100 who are working will soon support nearly 90. This requires reform of our economy. We have an increasing international competitive pressure in which Swedish companies such as Ericson, H & M, SKF, Swedish banks and others will compete with increasingly skilled competitors around the world. It places demands on politics. There are demands for order. This calls for reforms in labour supply. Mr President, I would like to It is distressing that the government does not address any of these two main challenges. Instead, public finances are being set aside. Nor is there any effort being made to increase labour supply. On the contrary, the government itself expects labour supply to fall over the years to come. Where we lower the thresholds to the labour market, the government chooses to raise and threaten when it comes to employment opportunities and entering the labour market. The government is raising thresholds, threatening jobs and squeezing public finances. Mr President, I would like to In today's debate, the Social Democrats and the Minister for Finance have spoken a lot about cooperation. We welcome this kind of cooperation. It opens the way for the Social Democrats to support an alliance government and thereby take a major feminist initiative by getting Sweden's first female prime minister in place.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-643	Mr President, I would like to The S- and MP government has lost control of the state's finances. Despite the fact that the report has the nerve to talk about order in public finances and even though it talks about more jobs and sustainable financing of welfare, it pursues a policy that leads in the opposite direction. It is true that it is flagged that serious disruptions in the economy can destroy forecasts of the future. But seriously, the serious disturbance we are talking about has already occurred. The government says it wants to take responsibility, among other things by raising taxes. It increases taxes on petrol and diesel, increases taxes on RUT and ROT work and increases taxes on older people who continue to work. It increases the income tax and tax on nuclear power plants and so on. This makes it more expensive to hire, less profitable to work and more expensive to work and live in rural areas. It also makes goods and services more expensive. Mr President, I would like to There is reason to mention the reasons why these tax increases may seem necessary. As the government points out, an irresponsible policy was pursued by the former bourgeois government. But then irresponsibility lay primarily in the headless mass immigration policy that was conducted – the most headless in the Western world, I would say. It is a policy that the government is now at last trying to alleviate a little, but it is far too little and far too late. A huge damage has already been done, and it will continue to hurt us because the public debt will continue to increase and taxes will continue to rise. Sweden already has a high tax burden in an international perspective. Such a high tax burden could be justified if it resulted in a surplus aimed at amortising the public debt or used to invest in investments that create value for Sweden and the opportunity for economic growth. Instead, however, we are going to increase the tax burden further to finance the mistakes that have been made for decades. In addition, government debt will increase to finance the mistakes that are still being made, which will mean a higher tax burden in the future if debt is ever to be repaid. Mr President, I would like to Tax policy is an area adjacent to many other policies. It bears both the possibility of walking right and the risk of treading wrong. Tax policy is important if a country is to create more opportunities. It has an impact on how problems can be overcome and on whether the use of our common resources is optimally designed, or at least as well designed as possible. The Swedish Democrats are a social-conservative middle party with the will and ambition to strengthen and further develop the public and private sector on a broad front. A balanced tax charge will benefit Swedish society when the money is used in a well thought-out way in important areas. As a first step, therefore, existing tax resources need to be redistributed as far as possible by increasing the funding of welfare, security, entrepreneurship and industry and reducing expenditure in other areas of expenditure, such as migration, integration, misdirected aid and the EU. The Swedish democrats want to invest considerable tax money in the rehabilitation of the defence, an increased number of police officers, a more child-friendly policy and a smarter school, with care for our country's best interests. We are also committed to giving the whole country the opportunity to live and to a business and industrial policy for more jobs. The Swedish Democrats now reach out one hand to the other parties in order to achieve the most possible of these objectives. Sweden is the European country with the highest indebtedness in private households. The total debt is greater than the national debt in Greece, which for some time has been considered to be on the brink of ruin and, according to some assessors, to be close to bankruptcy. In a situation with both expected increasing public debt and increased private debt in Sweden, the warning bells of most people should start ringing. Sweden is in danger of being thrown out, within a not too incalculable period of time, into insecurity with unmanageable interest costs on the mountain of debt that we have allowed to grow to enormous proportions. Sweden has been there before, and it is high time to pull the brake and act preventively. The Swedish Democrats are also opening up broad cooperation in the financial field, with the help of, among other things, fiscal policy as a tool and instrument for reaching a more stable and secure Sweden. Swedish industry in general and Swedish industry in particular need to develop continuously. The development of industry depends on many factors, and one important component is fiscal policy. While tax is to be used for welfare purposes, it will be crucial not to put a brake on business development potential through fiscal policy. The Swedish Democrats therefore propose a number of measures to strengthen Swedish industry and industry. For example, we are critical of the relatively high taxes levied on labour. It is usually estimated that four out of five new jobs were created in growing small businesses. The Swedish Democrats therefore propose a series of clear improvements for small businesses as part of stimulating employment. To small businesses, the Swedish Democrats want to give tax incentives specifically to work. We want to completely abolish the general salary levy for all companies with up to nine employees and a corresponding total salary ceiling. With this, we want to create incentives and not least the conditions for small companies that create the new jobs to be able to recruit. We need more jobs in Sweden and a higher employment rate in the economy. As a rule, when investors intend to invest in industrial activities in Sweden, real estate is a very significant proportion of tangible assets. It is therefore our view that taxation of industrial properties can help to discourage the establishment of industrial production in Sweden. Conversely, favourable taxation on industrial properties can contribute to more industrial investment. To lower the thresholds for investing in Swedish industrial properties and increase the opportunities for more investments in growing industrial companies in Sweden, we want to abolish the property tax on industrial units. Sweden has built its wealth on the basis of industry, and that is why the Swedish Democrats believe that fiscal policy needs to be adapted to continue to support this in the future. Sweden is by far the highest in the Nordic countries in terms of energy taxation for server halls, which is an obvious competitive disadvantage. In order to create favourable competitive conditions for this industry, Sweden's democrats want the energy tax for operators whose main business is server halls to be equated with that of the energy-intensive industry. Sweden is an IT country with good resources in this area, and we therefore want to take advantage of those opportunities. Mr President, I would like to The export industry is the engine that creates the conditions for Sweden's welfare development and generates the resources needed to finance not least welfare. It is therefore important that the government takes responsibility for creating the conditions necessary for the Swedish export industry to develop successfully. For a long time, Sweden has been passive and unengaged in further developing bilateral tax agreements with other countries. This has caused our export industry to lose competitiveness over the last 15 years vis-à-vis our main competitor countries. Sweden must focus on resuming and intensifying work on the bilateral tax agreements quickly and resolutely. This is an important and necessary prerequisite for maintaining and developing the competitiveness of the Swedish export industry in the long term. The so-called investor credit is aimed at increasing the availability of venture capital in small companies and is currently only targeted at natural persons. We want to expand that. We want to investigate the possibility for legal persons to take advantage of this opportunity as well. We want to increase funding opportunities and thereby stimulate companies' ability to take the next step to grow, because, as I said, it is in the growing companies that jobs are created. In addition to material assets, which are significant for industry, intangible knowledge-intensive assets such as patents, source codes, proprietary technologies, research results and such things also play a crucial role for industry and industry. Global competition is sharp, and Sweden needs to continuously develop its business environment. Research- and development-intensive activities are very important for Swedish business and for Sweden's chances to follow developments on the international stage. The Swedish Democrats therefore want to review how we can increase the possibilities of making additional tax deductions for research and development. In conclusion, the Swedish Democrats want to see a balanced realistic fiscal policy in the middle field with responsibility for social risks and with investments in welfare and business.
i-XJn9ygeKYatB3kE43Btjbk	Mr President, I would like to I support our reservations 4 and 9 in the report of the Committee on Finance. In the short term and at this moment, I believe that many people are looking for responsible politicians – people who want to take responsibility for the European refugee crisis and the terrorism that is currently sweeping Europe. It requires responsibility in this Parliament and politicians who cross-border dare to take responsibility for the situation that has arisen. But it also requires politicians who take responsibility for Sweden in the long term. The refugee crisis we are seeing in Europe and which has a significant impact not least on Sweden will ask us new questions about jobs, housing and welfare that we need to answer in this House. Mr President, I would like to Firstly, it is about the possibility of more people getting a job and entering the labour market and more opportunities for people to feel the freedom, empowerment and dignity of a job. If we look out over Swedish society today we see a very two-tier labour market where some have jobs but where a lot of people stand outside and knock on and are not allowed to enter the job heat. The second challenge is housing, which exhibits the same pattern. Some are on the inside while others are on the outside, knocking and trying to get in. However, they do not come in because of an excessively rigid housing market. Both the labour market and the housing market are characterised by rules that came about in another time and in another society. They need to be changed, and there fiscal policy plays an important role. The third part is about our common welfare. In this House, there are those who believe that the best way to finance the welfare of the future is to have more taxpayers. That's the line I represent. Against it are those who, in the short term, raise the tax without the courage to carry out radical reforms. Mr President, I would like to I want our tax system to encourage work. It should always pay off to work. It should pay off for those who go from a grant to a job. It should pay off for those who, from having lived on social security, go back to the labour market to look for a job. It'll pay to be educated. It doesn't today. For broad academic professions, not least in the public sector, such as nurses, teachers and psychologists, the five-year education does not pay off because the tax system effectively puts in a wedge that does not make education pay. That's completely unreasonable. Mr President, I would like to The tax system will encourage companies to grow, establish and invest in Sweden. This is important not least in view of the global and international tax competition we see and where countries try to attract companies to establish themselves in their country through taxes. It requires our taxes to be competitive in order for us to also have successful companies in the future that provide jobs in Sweden and export and tax revenues to our country. Mr President, I would like to It is about seeing the smaller companies, those who so far do not have more than one or two employees but who can be the export success of the future for Sweden. It is smaller start-up companies that exist in many of our larger and smaller cities or for that matter in the Swedish countryside, that develop new technology and that quite quickly turn to an international market. Modern taxes and rules are needed to allow these companies to grow as well. It can be about option taxation that enables them to grow more modernly as a company and thus create more jobs in Swedish society. Mr President, I would like to It is about more simple jobs and more entry jobs into the Swedish labour market. If we now have a situation with a two-tier labour market where some people are knocking but never getting in, we as politicians must take our responsibility for a new labour market to emerge that creates new ways into the labour market for those who are outside. Mr President, I would like to It is a question of ensuring that the housing market works better and of reducing the current migration taxes, which mean that people do not leave their homes even though they really want to, because taxes put obstacles in the way. On point after point in these areas, the government's budget is going in the wrong direction. It makes it more expensive to hire, less profitable to work and train and less attractive to use RUT deductions, which reduces the ability to create more entry jobs. On point after point you create fewer jobs in Swedish society. On point after point, you go in the wrong direction and make it harder for people and businesses to create more jobs and invest in our country. In all these areas, Mr President, we Liberals take a different path. We choose to reform the Swedish labour market and the Swedish housing market. We have a very clear aim, namely that we should have more people at work, above all because it creates more freedom for people but also because it creates more money for our common well-being. There is a very clear choice in Swedish policy: to raise taxes in the short term or to implement the reforms needed to build Sweden strongly for the future and reform the labour market and the housing market in order to achieve more taxpayers and thus secure the common welfare in the long term. Mr President, I would like to It is about freedom for people to be able to get a job and a home and to create a society with higher social mobility, a society where it means less where you come from and more where you are going. There, this government's budget creates, on a point-by-point, barriers and makes it difficult for people to enter the labour market and the housing market. In a situation where we need more mobility in the housing market and need to make radical reforms, the government chooses to provide construction subsidies that no one has asked for. In a situation where we need to create more entry jobs on the Swedish labour market, the government chooses to increase taxes on labour and to close bridges into the labour market that has partly emerged with the RUT deduction. On point after point, the government chooses a wrong path and a wrong strategy. It makes Sweden poorer, but it means above all, Mr President, that people's freedom does not increase but decreases. However, I would like to endorse the Liberals' reservation in the report.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-692	Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats advocate well-functioning and jointly funded welfare services and safeguard the quality of healthcare, school and care. We as citizens must now and in the future be able to rely on the state and the municipality to solve the tasks we expect and to do so with quality. When we are in need of the safety net, we should not have to doubt whether it works and help us back. The weak groups in society must be supported and seen as a resource in society. Every human being must be able to contribute one hundred percent of his own ability. However, we Christian Democrats do not see the link that raising taxes automatically means better welfare, but see that some increases are even detrimental to welfare in the long run. The basis for a functioning welfare and a stable social security system is that people are working. It creates growth which also increases tax revenues. With balanced tax cuts on labour and entrepreneurship, positive welfare effects can be achieved. New jobs and new businesses will then be created. One effect that should not be ignored is that people in that situation retain a larger part of their income, an income that they can decide for themselves how to use it, to create the conditions for living their lives in the way they want and that they think is best. My home county of Halland, like other parts of Sweden, depends on the conditions for companies and jobs. Taxes and charges have a major impact on these conditions. Taxation of businesses and transport has a major impact on the number of jobs. The government's draft budget is a threat to most of the companies, with increased taxes on transport, increased costs of hiring younger and older workers. Large industrial companies that depend on transport, to exemp el Södras factory in Värö, the concrete industry in Veddige and the paper mill in Hyltebruk, will all suffer from the government's tax proposals. Increased costs for transport and youth jobs impair the competitiveness of businesses. For the municipalities of these municipalities, tax revenues are also at risk in the long term if the profitability of the companies is threatened. Companies are co-players to create the resources that we all see needed for prosperity, not opponents or threats, but a prerequisite. Profitable companies with long-term rules of play are something we should strive for in order to finance the welfare we need in the future. Gekås in Ullared, many of whom are familiar, employs about 2,000 people, many of whom are young people. The removal of the youth discount is a direct blow to both the enterprise and the young. Increased transport costs are added as an additional burden. These are just a few examples of the consequences of government tax policy. The Christian Democrats want to maintain a reduction in employers' contributions for young people. It is of great importance that companies still have incentives to hire young people. The Christian Democrats want to halve the employers' contribution for young people up to 22 years old, but at the same time we want to increase the incentives for young people to seek and take a first job. We therefore propose that young people under the age of 25 should earn their first half of a million before the money is taken up for income taxation, in order to further increase incentives. We also find it extremely worrying that the government chooses to reduce the employment costs of people aged 65 or over. The same applies to the removal of the employment tax credit for the elderly. The pension age study could clearly show a link between lower taxes for older people with earned income and a marked increase in older people in working life. This provides better pensions for both the employee and the pension is the school elective. But above all, it shows that we need older people in the labour market for their experience but also for their know-how. The RUT and ROT deductions have opened up new markets and created conditions for companies and jobs. RUT and ROT are a success that has created around 21,000 new, white full-time jobs in industries that have previously had major problems with undeclared work. The Christian Democrats have long advocated what is today RUT deduction and which is used by many to make life a little easier to live. We are therefore opposed to the government's halving of the RUT deduction for those who are under the age of 65 and want to retain the deduction at the current level. Instead, our path is to extend the deduction to other services. One example of a service that could be the subject of an extension of the RUT deduction is laundry services carried out outside the home. If laundry companies and other types of service companies were to have this opportunity, many new jobs would be created and, at the same time, there would be a welcome relief to many stressed families who would have time to spend with their children and young people. It may also be thought that the service can be purchased for aged parents who need this help, as well as various types of service services. The Christian Democrats are opposed to the government's proposal to abolish the gift tax deduction. The right to deduct gifts is highly topical in these times of great need for help and support in Sweden and the world. The government should reconsider and leave it behind. Instead, we think that the government should go in the opposite direction and ensure that the deduction is extended by raising the ceiling while removing the annual fee. We think that people's willingness to give should not be stopped in these earlier but need to be increased. Mr President, I would like to We believe that the Government's proposals will make future financing of welfare and future challenges difficult for us as a society. With these comments, I would like to express my support for the reservations expressed by the Christian Democrats.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-706	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is in urgent need of investment. We have been for quite a long time. But it has been accentuated even more, not least this autumn. I can only mention the housing situation, the state of our railways, the falling school results and the needs of health care. These are major challenges that require joint efforts, publicly funded. Several people have touched on the situation in which we are in and which weighs heavily, both when it comes to the refugee immigration we have, but also when it comes to the security policy situation. I think Niklas Wykman was discussing how people experience it on their way to work today. Then I would like to say: the most important thing we can do in this House and as politicians is not to lose sight of the future, but to show people that we in this House are planning for the future, to solve the problems we have before us and not least to see that there is room for the people who have come here and that we have a policy of expanding society so that everyone can have room. I think that is the best message that people can hear, not only that we are dealing with the emergency situation, but also that we are able to think ahead and pursue a policy that actually means that people can believe in the future, that we can instill that hope. This government is taking care of all these investment needs. This budget, which we are presenting together with the Left Party, is a pointer for how the policy in Sweden is turned into future investment and a fairer policy in which those who are the most deprived are now, for the first time in nine years, the ones promoted by the budget. While investment needs are on the increase, this government has taken over an economic situation with budget deficits caused by unfunded tax cuts over many years. Therefore, the investments must be paid with increased tax revenues or reduced tax deductions. It could be summed up as follows: now it is the end of politics that favours the wallets of well-paid men in the midst of life. Instead, policy focuses on addressing the challenges spelled out in school outcomes, unemployment, housing shortages and inequality. It is true that we are raising taxes and that we are removing inefficient and expensive tax subsidies. But let me just take two examples where we do this. Youth unemployment was met by the previous government with a reduced social security contribution for young people who got a job. But it failed to focus on the unemployed young people and their needs. We are removing this extremely costly reduction, and I am pleased that quite a few of the bourgeois parties are also heading in this direction. We use these resources to invest in the unemployed young people who need to pass their upper secondary school degree and who need to get a foothold into working life through career introductions or other efforts. Then we give confidence in the future to all those young people who were previously refused support in order to be able to seek and find work. We face the galloping housing shortage with a major investment in housing construction, mainly rental apartments that are needed not least for young people's needs for their own housing but also for the labour market to work better, so that people can live where the jobs are. We are funding this investment with a reduction in the ROT deduction, which now costs society huge sums. We think it is time to switch subsidies from building terraces in residential areas to building rental apartments with reasonable rents. For the first time in nine years, we now have a budget that is redistributing from those with the highest income to those with the lowest, from men to women. It will not be equal in Sweden after 1 January, but this budget shows the direction. Smaller gaps in a society lead to better cohesion and higher growth. This reasoning is no longer just social democratic common sense. There are many international institutions, which formerly professed market-liberal theories, which have now realised that it is in fact economies like ours that succeed best and recommend such a policy. Swedish and Nordic welfare policies therefore stand as examples. I am proud that we in this House today are allowed to argue that Sweden is now re-entering that path. It is also important for this government to step up work against tax evasion and tax evasion. There are three reasons for that. Firstly, we need the money for investment. Secondly, the areas and sectors where there is a lot of tax evasion are almost always linked to terrible conditions for those who are employed, and the functioning of the labour market is out of play. Thirdly, it means unfair competition in which companies that want to do their own thing are becoming increasingly difficult to manage. We went to elections on a ten-point programme for order in the world of work and competition in business. We are well on our way to achieving that. We've changed the rules on ROT deductions. We will make proposals on monthly data on employers' contributions and withholding taxes. Human resources will be extended to more areas. And we are prepared to do much more and work on these issues. In the international field, this government is conducting the BEPS work, which aims to achieve fairer taxation in the world while ensuring that money does not end up in tax havens. Sweden should be a driver and implement the international agreements in a very clear way. We are told that this is a tax shock and a tax increase budget. In fairness, however, there are also tax cuts in this budget. As of 1 January, we will abolish the pensioner's tax on the most deprived pensioners. For us, the first step is a self-evident equality reform. It is not reasonable for pensioners to pay higher taxes than employees on the same income. I'll mention a couple of other tax changes. The tonnage tax will be implemented. A united parliament has been demanding this for at least eight nine years. Each time the former government's Finance Minister stood and said it had to wait until there was room and so on. This government delivers the tonnage tax immediately. We will see that a great deal of the new tonnage that is added in Sweden will also have a blue-yellow flag in the stern. It feels really good. Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the Committee on Finance's report.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-725	Mr President, I would like to It feels silly to be standing in this speaker's chair today. It feels silly in view of the wars and the many millions of people who are forced to flee their countries. It feels silly given that the EU is doing everything it can to build Fort Europe's walls higher. And it feels silly in view of yesterday's disastrous decision by the government that undermines, restricts and destroys the right to asylum. These are proposals that have been made possible following a persistent disaster campaign where everything has been claimed from the fact that Sweden's border is reached and that all systems are collapsing to the fact that, due to the reception of refugees, we are on our knees, something that of course is not right. At the same time, it is a crucial and important discussion that we are having today. It is a discussion in which we see that it is possible to do things differently. It is possible to invest in welfare, and it is possible to finance these efforts by making the most of their contribution with the highest income. I will admit that these are small steps in the right direction, but they are nevertheless moving in the right direction, because the Left Party has made a budget with the Social Democrats and the Green Party. I note that this budget, together with our amending budget, makes total investments and investments of up to SEK 44 billion, many of which are important and necessary for developing welfare, getting people to work, creating education and creating a stronger Sweden. I will admit that we have even higher ambitions than this. We need a stronger policy to respond to the crises that our country is experiencing today. I am talking about the housing crisis, the unemployment crisis and the understaffing crisis in areas such as health care, care for the elderly and social services. Mr President, I would like to I also note that with this framework decision, we are increasing tax revenue by up to SEK 21 billion. There is a great deal of money that can now be used for the offensive reforms that we are proposing. It is money that is taken from all the richest by, among other things, stepping up the job tax deduction, lowering RUT and ROT and increasing the progressiveness of high incomes. What we are talking about is a few small cents for those who have an annual income of almost half a million or more will make a decisive contribution to financing justice reforms. It also reduces the galloping income differences that Sweden has become the world champion in. Income inequality is, as you know, not a law of nature, but the result of active political action and of active political decisions that have been made under many governments with bourgeois economic policy on the agenda and which have dug huge holes in the state's finances. These are holes which, of course, must be filled and financed in other ways. The path chosen by the bourgeois government and the Alliance was a path that increased gaps, deteriorated welfare and eroded our various insurance systems. For the unemployed and the sick, it was a disaster. This government, along with the Left Party, chooses a completely different path. I'm very proud of that. There is no value in taking in taxes of our own, but it is a tool for implementing the policies that we believe in and the policies that lead to prosperity to be trusted. It is a policy that invests in crucial investments in infrastructure and extensive employment of welfare workers in the public sector, i.e. preschool teachers, socionomists, nurses, teachers, park workers, child care workers and many more. It is a policy that provides jobs or training for young and unemployed people. It is a policy that gives young and unemployed confidence in the future. Similarly, just as there is no intrinsic value in raising taxes, there is no intrinsic value in having as low taxes as possible. We have now lived through a brutal tax bench policy that has given more to those who have already taken away from those who have not. It has led to increasing class gaps and a distributive political disaster, at least if one believes in equality as a goal of politics. Mr President, I would like to I will admit that the Left Party has even higher ambitions in the area of tax policy. We want the taxes to be used to create a more equal Sweden. We want taxes to be progressive and those who are best placed to contribute the most. We want tax policy to support the construction and development of the welfare country Sweden – the welfare country Sweden that is open, the welfare country Sweden that is welcoming and the welfare country Sweden that does not close any borders in panic. Finally, let me point out a few areas where I hope the Swedish Government will be able to take action to move forward with the Left Party in the run-up to forthcoming budget discussions. First, the interest deduction obliges the government to spend SEK 30 billion on a system that is distorted and primarily benefits high income earners. The system should be substantially modified and reduced, both to smooth out economic disparities and not to add to a runaway mortgage market and to erode government finances. Secondly, the wealth tax was SEK 6 billion when it was abolished by the bourgeois alliance in 2007. Let us, together, ensure that the task assigned to the SCB in this budget is followed up, namely to identify the size and distribution of household wealth, to reintroduce the wealth tax in the next budget and, in addition, to increase the progressiveness of the tax system together. I know you want to and I know you know this. Thirdly, I am of course pleased that the Social Democrats and the Green Party have accepted the Left Party's proposal for a bank tax. Let us ensure that it is made sufficiently powerful and comprehensive! We can see that the financial sector, with the excess profits of the banks, is under-taxed. I hope that the government wants to take rapid steps forward and increase such a tax on the banks, in order to reach the 12 billion Left Party estimates that this tax can provide. It is so well needed for us to be able to invest in our children, young and older. Mr President, I would like to Sweden of today needs strong investment to solve the crises we are experiencing. Sweden of today needs strong investment in welfare to meet the needs of all those living in our country. Sweden of today needs to increase equality and reduce disparities. All of this is possible with progressive tax policy leaning to the left. A few steps are taken in this budget. I hope that this government will be able to continue to take that responsibility together with the Left Party, for a fairer, more equal and more open Sweden – a Sweden where we say: Everyone is needed, and everyone has room! I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-743	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying to Daniel Sestrajcic that unlike him, I never find it ridiculous to stand in this people's Parliament and speak. The alternative to the people's parliament is a street parliament, and we do not want this society to be governed. I have a question for Daniel Sestrajcic. He says that the proposals on migration policy made yesterday are unacceptable and cannot possibly be defended. Without discussing them in substance, I would like to say that the government that governs this country does so solely because it has the support of the Left Party. The Left Party can therefore choose to refrain from supporting the government. This would mean that a different policy, which is still unknown, would govern the country instead. I therefore wonder why Daniel Sestrajcic and his party choose to support a government that he believes proposes things that are completely wrong.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-745	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that for a party that wants to close our borders completely, it is not considered ridiculous when people run for their lives. As you know, the Left is not part of the agreement on migration policy, nor is it a party that accepts the proposals made by the government yesterday – and which the Moderates do not think goes far enough in destroying the right of asylum. What we have to discuss here today is the budget on which the Left Party has cooperated with the government. That budget does not contain such proposals; on the contrary, it is an offensive budget with good welfare reforms, which we fully support. We hope that we can even improve and change them towards more people being able to get jobs and education. On the other hand, the agreements on migration policy are made with the party of Niklas Wykman, among others, and we do not support them under any circumstances.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-747	Mr President, I would like to First of all, it is widely known that the Left Party is part of very few agreements. The pension agreement is one of those. It stems from a very simple reality, namely the fact that the Left Party is not capable of taking the kind of responsibility required to take part in the management of a country. Yet Stefan Löfven has chosen to sit in a government that is directly dependent on Daniel Sestrajcic's party. His party now declares that the policy being pursued is totally untenable and impossible to support. I therefore ask Daniel Sestrajcic once again: how is it that Daniel Sestrajc is standing here today and supporting a budget – the only condition for the government to remain in office – when, at the same time, he believes that the government's policy is completely indefensible? How does that logic go together? Mr President, I would like to Does Daniel Sestrajcic's message also mean that the Left Party will not support the next budget? The migration policy the government has now presented will inevitably have a huge impact on what the next budget looks like in terms of both revenue and expenditure. Does the announcement mean that Daniel Sestrajcic and his party cannot support the next budget from this government?
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-750	Mr President, I would like to Unlike this government, which has made an agreement on migration policy Niklas Wykman, of course, is very pleased with the fact that it implements a moderate labour market policy, the Left Party does not intend to support that form of policy. We assume the following: In the next budget negotiation with the Social Democrats and the Green Party, all the things that involve revenue and expenditure, and that they have agreed with the bourgeois parties, will come up for discussion. Then, of course, we will defend a policy that does not restrict collective agreements, which does not invest more in RUT and so on. In other words, what happens in the future will be seen in the budget negotiations, which I very much look forward to. I hope that we have a government that dares to invest in Sweden forward instead of leading Sweden backwards with closed borders.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-752	Mr President, I would like to It is essential and important for this House to realise that, in order to finance our common welfare society, people need to work and pay taxes. It requires them to pay for goods and services with money they have earned. As I read through what we have to take a stand on here today, I am struck by the naive senselessness that seems to characterise the financial policy of our country. Among other things, I can read that the very large increase in the number of asylum seekers may further strengthen public consumption. The road to a job for those who are now coming here is long. What money is it then most of these groups should spend? I have rarely seen such an Orwellian rewrite of how something goes about the pipe in such optimistic terms as when I read through this document. It is frustrating to read the long-lost clichés about order and order in public finances when we are faced with a complete social collapse. Fewer and fewer are expected to pay for more and more, while we are forced to borrow money. Mr President, I would like to Today, we are going to take a position on a document containing such wordings as, in view of the uncertainty of the forecasts and, therefore, at present, it is difficult to assess the magnitude of the number of asylum seekers and the impact on public finances. It cannot even be viewed with goodwill as one's most uncertain estimates. It is not difficult to assess the scale of the number of asylum seekers and the impact that this will have on public finances. Both posts are colossal and will continue to be so as long as Sweden allows it. This budget is presented with Sweden being a country that holds together, which narrows the gaps between the social classes, which is a contradiction without its equal. For in speaking moments tent camps are being built. That's where we talk social classes! The money that would go to people in need in refugee camps is seized to be used for the immigration that takes place in Sweden. While I am standing here in this House with a document before me which wishes impossible rather than dealing with reality, perhaps it would be appropriate to also introduce the objective of creating world peace at once. But that is not part of this debate, but it shows the naive attitude that still prevails. Not only will Sweden reduce the gaps between social classes and gain economically from mass immigration, but we will increase employment. With this in mind, this entire document contains nothing but wishful thinking. Or they may possess some kind of superpower to make that equation go together. Mr President, I would like to Not to forget that we obviously need to build a copious amount of new homes too, but it should be a baggy compared to all the other challenges we face. Given what I listed and where half would probably be, it should also be added to some refreshing tax increases. There are no winners with government policy. There are fewer people who work and pay taxes and who will support more people who do not work. It will undeniably lead to a social collapse. Well-being will be a thing of the past. The question raised is: Who gave you the right to deprive it of our children and to place them in debt?
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-763	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats consider it extremely important that, even after the end of the Cotonou Agreement, the relationship between the European countries and the developing countries in Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific continues to be characterised by a desire for consensus and cooperation. The Swedish Democrats see aid and trade as the main instruments to help people get out of poverty, and we therefore want to see a good and effective policy in these areas. Since the signing of the Cotonou Agreement, all three areas have been characterised by highly differentiated developments. In southern Africa, for example, Botswana has a per capita bnp about ten times higher than in neighboring Zimbabwe. New agreements must therefore, by definition, look different. The Swedish Democrats therefore want to submit a special opinion in which we present our principles for continued cooperation. We want regional agreements with thematic orientations on trade, aid, human rights, policy and readmission. We are critical of EU agricultural aid, which, combined with trade facilitation, can cause competitive disadvantages for Swedish farmers, and that is something we want to avoid. The Swedish Democrats also do not want to contribute to agreements that give EU countries the right to operate third country fishing waters. We also want other natural resources to be exploited by developing countries themselves. Aid policy should be based on the principle more for more. We also want to see a gradual transition to results-based aid. In the field of aid, we want to see a focus on development objectives 1, 2, 3 and 6. The form of budget support should be fully phased out as it poses too great a risk of corruption. In the area of aid, former colonies have traditionally been particularly favoured, which we strongly oppose. Aid should instead be allocated according to needs. The Swedish Democrats see readmission agreements as a must for a long-term functioning relationship with developing countries. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats have a positive view of trade in goods and services, as it provides increased growth that in turn creates better economic conditions for countries and their citizens. We believe that free trade can be a strong wealth creation for both poor and more developed countries. Safeguarding the principle of free trade is therefore both a global and a Swedish interest. The Swedish Democrats are therefore basically a free trade-friendly party. We believe that Sweden, both within the EU and in international fora, such as the WTO, should work towards open and free trade and to counter protectionism.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-778	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation in the report. In this report, the committee deals with the government's letter, the National Audit Office's report on aid through international organisations, and a follow-up motion from the Swedish Democrats. We in the committee welcome the Swedish National Audit Office's review of the core grants that Sweden has paid to a number of multilateral organisations, banks, the UN and the World Bank. We in the Swedish Democrats want to see responsible, effective and humane aid. Aid is important to enable people in poverty and oppression to improve their living conditions. This year, the Swedish Democrats spend more money on aid in Category 7 than the government does. We believe that it is of the utmost importance that careful planning, payment and accounting of aid be carried out in an efficient and transparent manner. Mr President, I would like to The problems of multilateral and nuclear aid have been well known for a long time and there have also been criticisms in the media. We therefore welcome the Swedish National Audit Office's review. Although I have been following the issue over the years, I have to say that I was very concerned about the results of the review and the major shortcomings that emerged in the government's handling of multilateral aid, especially in view of the large amounts involved. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed decision-making processes, documentation, monitoring and reporting of core support to various multilateral organisations. The review shows that there are major shortcomings and problems in all parts. In conclusion, the following criticisms and proposals have emerged. The government should take formal decisions on the allocation of nuclear aid, which has not been the case in the past. The Government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should ensure that decisions are clearly and informatively documented. The Government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should ensure effective follow-up of multilateral development cooperation. The Government should consider introducing a comprehensive reporting of Sweden's multilateral development cooperation. The government should develop the accounting in the budget bill. It should include a full account of the nuclear support to multilateral organisations, as we have also pointed out in our motion, but we are not satisfied with the government's response. The Swedish National Audit Office has also pointed out that it should improve the effectiveness of multilateral cooperation and ensure that case management and archiving are effective and promote transparency and transparency. Under these points, the government is now working to produce new assessments. There have already been some improvements due to the various requests and proposals from the Swedish National Audit Office. This is, of course, good and something we welcome, and we hope that it will indeed be properly followed up and implemented by the government in the future. We will follow these developments, so that improvements become a reality. The Swedish National Audit Office also points out in the review, as I mentioned earlier, that the government in the budget bill does not give a full indicative account of which organisations are to receive core support. Now there was some improvement in this year's budget compared to last year's, but it is still the case that only the largest organisations are reported. The government says in terms of accounting for planned core support that it does not think that the budget proposal is the right format and that such a report would negatively affect Sweden's ability to negotiate processes and negotiate between different organisations. The committee has also noted that the largest core subsidies are reported, but not all, and that there is scope for improvement. That is exactly what I want: to improve it. If the budget proposal is not the right format, then what is the correct format? Reading in the annual report from Sida, other annual reports or the regulation letter does not give me the right basis to stand on for the Riksdag. It is not transparent enough, because it becomes something we find out afterwards. When we in committee are going to deal with large amounts of money for all multilateral organisations, it is very important that we also know how the government plans to distribute the aid. I think it is a pity that the whole committee is not in favour of this. That is why I support our reservation. However, at a meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the Minister for Development said that it is perfectly possible to make such accounts. She didn't seem completely negative. I am hopeful and hope for improvement. It is also important that voters can see what is the government's proposal and what is the opposition's proposal and can follow aid money closely, transparently and transparently. As I said, we have a large aid budget, and we should be proud of that, but it is also taxpayers' money, and it is important that they can follow where the aid money goes.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-793	Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal in the report. The report deals with a review letter from the Swedish National Audit Office and the Government's opinion on that review. It is important to remember that what is being criticised in the Swedish National Audit Office's report is largely related to administrative procedures and documentation. It is not that anything has been found that suggests that money has been misused, misused, embezzled or in any way unclear. What the Swedish National Audit Office criticises is the lack of documentation of administrative procedures. It is about how and when decisions are taken on the distribution of money, what decisions they have taken and, above all, why they have chosen to distribute the money to various multilateral organisations as they have done. This is a review that has been carried out on the basis of looking at the largest beneficiaries over a series of years during the last term of office. Already the Development Minister of the former government began to remedy the shortcomings in accounting and documentation. This work is now continuing to be carried out by the current government and the current Development Minister in order for us to be able to follow clearly how one has reasoned and what has been the basis for one's decisions on the allocation of funds to various multilateral organisations. It is also good that we in Parliament will have a clearer restatement in the form of a letter in which we will be able to follow up how money has been paid out and, above all, how much and with what intentions. This gives Parliament an opportunity to express its views on multilateral aid, not only through its budget decision, but also by following up how it has been implemented. That each item should be included in the budget bill, which Julia Kronlid calls for, may not prove possible all the way through. But I think we can see more items in the budget proposal than today and thus the largest ones. Making a total account may not be practicable and feasible, but as far as possible it will certainly be possible to satisfy what Julia Kronlid and the Swedish Democrats are asking for. As Mrs Julia said, the Minister for Development also expressed a positive view of moving forward with that report in the budget proposals. But I still want to lower my hopes a little. It may not be every post that can be included. There may be some small items that are not included in a budget text, simply for reasons of space. It may also be that they cannot be predicted so far in advance. Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the report on the letter and stress that the criticisms concern administrative procedures and documentation, not that any money should have been spent. The measures to strengthen accounting and documentation began under the previous government and continue under it.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-799	Mr President, I would like to We are debating the Swedish National Audit Office's review of the core grants that Sweden has paid to a number of multilateral banks and organisations. I support the proposal in the report. This is more about the form of aid than about its content. The overall conclusion of the Swedish National Audit Office is that the management of multilateral development cooperation by the Government and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs is not characterised by transparency, efficiency and clear accountability. – – According to the Swedish National Audit Office, it is not possible to determine whether the money goes to the most effective and relevant organisations. The Parliament and the public also do not have access to the information needed to understand what multilateral aid is used for. This is written by the Swedish National Audit Office, after reviewing the entire chain from the Riksdag's decision to implementation and follow-up. The important thing here is to be self-critical. It's good to have a review. During the time of the Alliance, aid has improved. Land focus has increased. We have achieved the 1% target in eight budgets. We have worked hard to increase the focus on results, transparency and feedback. There is an aid policy platform in place, and it will make a clear path through the forest of policies for which we have been criticised. Despite hard work, we haven't made it all the way. It's important and fundamental for the credibility of the aid and strong support of the Swedish people – because it's tax money we're talking about – that every penny is used in the best possible way. The Red-Green Government has a lot to answer for in terms of their carelessness and failures in aid policy: the lack of information, the lack of interest in, for example, SRHR and vaccinations, the internal fragmentation and the uncertainty experienced and expressed by aid organisations. However, on this matter the Committee on Foreign Affairs agrees and stresses how important it is that Sweden's contribution to the multilateral organisations should continue to take the form of what we call core support. When we do this, we support a long-term system of global collaboration where Sweden's political priorities, that is, what we think is important, have an impact. It is possible to describe core support as the development policy infrastructure. It is not as chilly as simply providing aid for specific purposes or countries. It's probably not as fun at the donors' conferences. But it guarantees that the system is in place, and it has been something that we prioritised. It therefore deserves to be monitored and evaluated. Decisions must be taken with good transparency, and it must be clear what has formed the basis for these decisions. Mr President, I would like to The Government reports back to Parliament in the form of a letter. Now the Committee on Foreign Affairs is proposing that it be even better. There will be an overall analysis of the results of the work of multilateral development organisations. It will therefore be easier to understand what the money has been used for. That is beyond what is communicated in the budget. The letter does not replace what will be in the budget. An important point in the report is that the requirement for efficiency in the management of aid funds does not only apply to those who carry out operations or to beneficiary countries and organisations. This also applies to the way in which resources are allocated, managed and followed up in Sweden. That's it. There is potential for improvement, and the improvement work continues. It will be better administration and more decisions made by the government. Much has already improved, as I said. Parliament will continue to review the government. With better information in the b udget and a better letter, this work will be more effective. Aid is tricky. It's politics and a lot of handling. It is long-term, and it is governed by principles, agreements and, at best, political will. The needs are enormous, and the resources are never really enough. Priority, coordination and transparency are needed. The activities often take place in democratically dubious countries with major problems of corruption and human rights deficiencies. The idea of aid is to make a difference. It is important to ensure that people are given tools to get out of poverty and away from oppression. The Parliament's stated goal of creating conditions for better living conditions for people living in poverty and oppression applies. But the way we achieve it will change not least to meet the challenges we face today. The world around us is changing, and then aid must also change. The perfect reform does not exist. You're never done with politics. The only thing that is constant is the changes and the need for renewal and constant improvement.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-811	Mr President, I would like to It may seem strange that the Foreign Affairs Committee devotes so much time to the National Audit Office's report on aid through international organisations and a report in which we agree. The reason why I and we in committee think it is important to pay attention to this report is that there have been many discussions on how it has been done. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed, and we are pleased with that review. The Swedish National Audit Office is, among other things, the body of the Chamber. We Members need to be able to have someone to review so that we can get a basis for our review of how the government is dealing with its enemies. That is why this report is good. It is clarification. Mr President, I would like to It is also valuable that we have here a broadly positive view from the government of the proposals contained in the report from the Swedish National Audit Office. Not least, the issue of the reporting of multilateral organisations is something we have to work on. Our mission is to review the government. But it is also important for us to be able to examine the multilateral organisations through the work of the government in this work. It's a challenge in itself. We worked during the time of the alliance government to clarify the policies that would apply. We received some criticism during the trip when we felt that there was reason to reduce some resources because we did not meet the demands we made when we started working more actively as directors of the various multilateral organisations. But it's got an effect. It is an important part of the work that we need to get back to Parliament so that we can test and review. Since we agree, there may not be any reason to repeat what has been said, but I do. Nuclear aid to multilateral organisations is extremely important. Sweden is almost an exception in this context. This creates the conditions for more efficient planning and a greater long-term perspective. It is a prerequisite not always to be hunted by different clients with different project descriptions that should guide sometimes here and there. That is why nuclear aid is important. It is also important that we ensure that we have good follow-up. That is the ambition in this case. It is a challenge for each government to manage support within the framework of the Government Office. The Government Office is not in itself built up to be a resource that can do what the authorities normally manage, namely payments, follow-up, demands, dialogue and so on. There are things that exist in Sida, for example, that have been the subject of quite a lot of discussions. It is important that we see that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs in its organisation and structure does not have the size of that authority that it is simply to resolve those issues. But the ambitions have been there. Improvements have been made. As Kenneth G. Forslund pointed out, this work began under the previous government. It is important that this work continues. If the Ministry for Foreign Affairs is to continue to make the large payments and we are to make the same demands here as for other aid, the organisation must be rigged so that it can be completed. Otherwise, the debate will come back regardless of government, and there will be criticism of the possibility of follow-up and of making demands on the basis of a follow-up of the multilateral organisations that we have every reason to examine but also to assist in the work. Mr President, I would like to I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-821	Mr President, I would like to Every squandered chandelier is a theft from the people. That is what a famous Minister of Social Affairs, Gustav Möller, once said. That quote is also very true when it comes to international aid efforts. Sweden must have a generous and value-driven development policy. In terms of our population, today we give the most in the world. We are one of three countries that achieve the UN target of 0.7% of the world's wealthier countries going to aid. For that we have reason to be proud. But we also have reason to be careful. It is therefore not possible to stress enough how important the transparency of Swedish aid is. It is necessary for us to know how our aid money best works. It is needed to keep corruption away and to maintain confidence in aid. Good aid does not come out of blue-eyed goodwill. It must also produce real results. We need a responsible attitude in all aid work. Therefore, Sweden must act against maladministration, work with results reporting and continue the fight against corruption in both aid organisations and recipient countries. The Swedish National Audit Office's report shows that it is important that more information about the support is given regarding multilateral organisations. This applies not least to us in the Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs, which is to review. I do not think there is any indication that transparency will be less important in the future, so that work must continue with full intensity. Now that a large part of Swedish aid is counted off in the reception of refugees, it becomes even more important that the money that actually leaves the country is used in the way that is most effective. Not a tax chandelier should be squandered. This applies both to the world's needy people and to the Swedish people when it comes to aid. We will have a more detailed debate here in Parliament on international aid on 14 December. I would like to stress that we Liberals will stand by our historic conviction of international solidarity with a focus on democracy. When democracy today is not a clear development objective according to the United Nations and when democracy in the world has come to an end and even gone back for the ninth year in a row, greater – not less – efforts are needed for democracy in aid. The lesson is never to take freedom for granted and realize that there will never be democracy without democrats in place. We Liberals focus on democracy and human rights. To this and several other important aid issues, we will come back in the debate on international aid in mid-December.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-831	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the Swedish National Audit Office's report on aid through international organisations. It is an important review that we welcome and whose results require responsibility and action. The purpose of the review has been to investigate whether the government, through support to multilateral organisations, has created the conditions for effective and result-oriented Swedish aid where our citizens' tax funds are used as efficiently as possible and where the efforts are the very best for the people in need of our support. Unfortunately, the answer is that we do not really know. The Swedish National Audit Office concludes that the government's and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' management of multilateral development cooperation is not characterised by transparency, efficiency and clear accountability. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, it is currently not possible to determine whether the money goes to the most effective and relevant organisations. The Parliament and the public also do not have access to the information needed to clearly see what multilateral aid is used for. This is, of course, serious, because limited transparency and control mean that shortcomings and errors in handling are at risk of not being detected. The legitimacy of important aid is under threat. Mr President, I would like to Many of the multilateral organisations to which Sweden contributes carry out outstanding and important work. At a time when UN agencies such as UNHCR and the World Food Programme are sounding the alarm that more than half of the funds that would be needed to help the vulnerable displaced people are missing, the government must dare to look at how multilateral aid is channelled and what results the efforts have. It is everyone's absolute goal that the aid should go to efforts where Sweden does absolutely the most good. The Christian Democrats feel that it no longer makes sense to continue pouting money to a variety of multilateral organisations. Sweden is a very large donor, but spreads the support across a very large number of organisations. This risks making the aid ineffective and rather sprawling. We therefore propose that the government carry out a thorough review of the aid channelled through UN agencies and other multilateral organisations, like the comprehensive review carried out by the Alliance in order to achieve a country focus on bilateral aid. The aim is to reduce the number of recipients and thereby focus and streamline Swedish aid. Mr President, I would like to The committee is clear in the report. Nuclear aid is important. It provides opportunities for organisations to maintain preparedness and to be able to act quickly when new crises and needs arise. Not least organisations such as the UN Emergency Fund Cerf and the UNHCR, as I mentioned earlier, both bear witness to the importance of having flexibility to respond to new situations and new needs. But this requires a lot of the organisations in the form of follow-up and accounting. The Swedish National Audit Office's report shows that, based on the government's accounts, it is not possible to get an overall picture of the distribution of nuclear aid. Efforts must be made here. Only in this way can Parliament deal with the aid budget with credibility. Only in this way can we ensure that the challenges we face are met in the very best way. Finally, Mr President, it is to be welcomed that in the letter the government stresses that they will be holding a dialogue with the Committee on Foreign Affairs on our need for information on multilateral development cooperation. I would like to say that the government is also in need of more information on this development cooperation. Once again, in times of great concern in our world, in times of major humanitarian disasters and in times when the government has announced that the reception of refugees reaches up to 30% of the aid budget, we must realise that this is not just about the need of information-thirsty Members of Parliament. The need is much greater than that.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-840	Mr President, I would like to This debate is being held on the days before the start of the major summit in Paris. There is a lot of focus on Paris, also for the reason that the issue of the future of climate is now to be landed, at least in the meeting called COP 21. There are many hopes, as are the fears. We are among those who nevertheless hope that we will reach an agreement in Paris in order to achieve the two degree target. We know that if we do not get there, and if we end up at four degrees or even higher, the situation we are experiencing today will get even worse. Many countries, and not just islands, will then be threatened with disappearing. This applies to many parts of our earth, and this is because of the rising water levels. But it can also be done as a result of a lack of water. In many parts, our most important food, the water, will no longer be available. The conditions for running operations and living will change. We have major challenges ahead of us both in terms of meeting the climate and reducing warming and in ensuring that different countries and people are able to adapt for a time with a climate that is different. We in the European Union have been clear that we want to reach a binding climate agreement. Sweden is, of course, part of this. We have also been clear about meeting financing commitments. It is about the agreement reached last autumn, and earlier this summer, on the aid agenda. The EU should meet the 0.7 % target as the EU. As you know, Sweden has a higher level, Mr President. As the EU has confirmed, we will also be able to finance the Copenhagen promise, which is about the conditions for adaptation for other countries. It concerns USD 100 billion to be available in the Green Fund. We from the Center Party have fought hard to get the Green Fund in place. We have fought hard to get Sweden to support the entry into the fund and get it up on the track, and we have succeeded in doing so. We also support the commitments that Sweden has made with regard to efforts for the Green Fund. It is an important marker that we take responsibility for other people also to have opportunities for a good future even if the climate challenges. Of course, Agenda 2030 with the 17 new global targets is also an important prerequisite. We will act out there in the world as a whole, but also at home at all levels to meet the challenges. One of these challenges is, of course, fossil dependence. Breaking fossil dependence is important. The IAEA report of 2011 notes the remarkable fact that 548 billion dollars are being used to subsidise fossil fuels globally. So it is $548 billion that is used to destroy the climate. We are pleased that the current government is sticking to the work that, not least during the time of the Alliance Government, Lena Ek started with the Friends Group and is about phasing out fossil fuel subsidies. It was launched in 2009 and is important to continue to work with. It is good that the government is interested in pursuing it. I hope that the government will also take on board another important leg in the work carried out, not least by Lena Ek as Minister for the Environment during the time of the Alliance Government, namely the work on new climate economy. It is about seeing that growth leads to better climates. The Stern report that many have referred to on other issues was followed up on climate issues. Growth and climate have often been set against each other, but this shows the benefits of climate action for growth and growth for climate action. It is extremely important in order to break the lock that has been in the international talks, and also in the talks in this House, that growth threatens the climate or the environment. That is not the case. The right instruments and measures enable both growth and climate action for a better environment, as Sweden has shown. It is important to take this forward, Mr President. This report is also about the future. I have a reservation in the report on behalf of the Center Party. It is basically about the time post Paris. If you read the report, you will see that there are some positions on the EU and on climate diplomacy until 2015 and the Paris meeting. The 2030 Agenda is mentioned, and it is de facto after the Paris meeting, but a lot of focus and focus has been on the Paris meeting. Even if we achieve success and land on the three-degree target, or whatever it will be when everyone has made their bids, we will have to do more. Then it is important, we think, that we have a government that is prepared to take the leadership for this. This is not just about the Minister for the Environment; it is about the whole government to a large extent, and about catching a foreign policy that takes on board the need to unite and build alliances globally in order to go further in terms of climate than the climate agreement, if it were to be one, would land on. That is what we are trying to point out in our reservation. We want to see a feedback from the government that reports how to ensure a comprehensive climate focus in foreign policy after 2015. We do not think that the report captures this, and that is why we have left the reservation. We have, Mr President, a government that has a feminist policy and foreign policy, on which we hear and receive reports. But play with the idea that we have a government that has a foreign policy that aims to meet the two degree target and that aims to put the focus on the climate. Would we receive reports on this? Yeah, I think so. I note that the government has not given a re-report, and I note that there is no such focus on foreign policy. That is why we have left the reservation that I outlined. We want an account of this. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, I would like to say that climate and sustainability work is also involved in a specific opinion, and it emphasises that we are now not taking a position on an aid policy framework or on the PGU issues, because it comes from the development policy report, as Birgitta Ohlsson pointed out. Let's get back to you. With this, I support the reservation and the other report.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-855	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that I see high ambitions and many who are at a high pace when it comes to climate change. I would like to begin by saying that the greatest threat in world history is the climate threat. Climate change cannot be seen in the short term; a longer perspective is needed. It does not make a difference between people, where we come from or where we are. It is a threat to our future, and our future is our grandchildren. We began to feel the consequences of climate change only a few years ago, and so several countries, with Sweden in the lead, began to take a stand for a limited climate impact. This is one of our national environmental objectives in Sweden. The United Nations International Panel on Climate Change's fifth report states that global warming is an undeniable fact. The report also describes that risks can be mitigated, but it requires greenhouse gas emission reductions and, not least, adaptation measures. The IPCC concludes that global emissions must start to fall over the next decade and that emissions must decrease by 40-70% between 2010 and 2050 and then continue to fall to 0 between 2050 and 2100. Mr President, I would like to The State Party Meeting in Durban in 2011 launched the so-called Durban Platform, which required the adoption in 2015 of a legally binding agreement on emissions for the period beyond 2020 in Paris during COP 21. The aim is to reach international agreement on a climate agreement. The committee has submitted a proposal in the report that I would like to support. The report looks with concern at the conclusions of the IPCC evaluation reports, but stresses that humanity still has the opportunity to mitigate the negative consequences of climate change. In this context, the committee underlines the importance of the Paris climate summit resulting in a global, fair and legally binding climate agreement that helps to keep global warming below two degrees over time. The committee notes with concern the report that the cumulative level of the national emission reduction plans submitted for the Paris meeting does not appear to be sufficient. This is why the committee also stresses the urgent need for a future climate agreement to be dynamic and to allow for increased climate action over time. Finally, I would like to say that three of the committee's proposals for a decision on the climate agreement are important. It's about getting a global average temperature that doesn't rise over two degrees. It is also about the fact that we want the possibility of revision, to be able to follow up the agreements, after a shorter period of time and that there should be sufficient funding in the Green Fund, which we talked about, to support developing countries.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-863	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. It's an important time in the world right now. Poverty, freedom, repression and humanitarian disasters require both political and sustainable solutions. There is a global effort to address mankind's challenges. Several international processes have been going on for a long time and have now landed, including the new sustainability goals. This means that the development agenda, the development policy itself at global level, is reconciled with the environmental and climate agenda. The common denominator is sustainable development. This is a motion report. There are therefore no strong proposals from the Red-Green Government on the link between security, climate and sustainability in a bill. The link between climate, security and sustainability is increasingly being addressed. Climate diplomacy is in place, and at security policy meetings climate issues are raised as a real threat and a driver of uncertainty. It is something new and links different policy areas. It is a bit like when environmental policy and the economy began to be linked together, to a great extent. We Moderates had a reservation about the link between climate and security and migration flows. However, since the committee is seeking a consensus on important valuation issues, the text is now included in the report. We appreciate it. Our Party Movement emphasises the importance of climate action that contributes to enhanced security. Global environmental challenges and climate change are some of the most serious threats to people's safety and living conditions around the world. A large proportion of today's conflicts stem from environmental factors. In addition, rapid population growth, combined with climate change, risks leading to further tensions with new conflicts and increased flows of refugees. Emissions must be reduced, but adaptation is also needed. Aid can limit climate emissions and increase resilience. That's why we're going to continue climate-proof aid. I believe that this is shared by the committee, now that the report is completed. In our committee motion, we say that the link between security and climate change is strong and that global sustainability efforts must be accelerated. Sweden will be the leader in international climate work, especially within the EU, in order to achieve a climate agreement that means that global warming can be kept below two degrees. The use of fossil fuels must stop in the long term. Globally, the use of fossil energy does not bear its costs. There is a need for a common EU energy market with reduced use of fossil fuels. Adaptation measures are also needed to address the effects of climate change. Aid therefore has an important role to play in promoting the environment and sustainable development. It is important to secure climate change aid. We also have a number of proposals for climate policy instruments. Here, too, I see the consensus. It is good and important that Sweden can stand up for this. Sweden has consistently been a progressive force over time in terms of climate change and international climate negotiations. We have delivered nationally and internationally. The green shift in taxation carried out by the Alliance with increased tax on carbon dioxide and a substantial reduction in tax on labour has had an effect. The coherent climate policy that was delivered has really made a difference. It was good that we raised our ambitions from when we took office in 2006 when the target was minus 4% to a real target of minus 40%. We show that it is possible to reduce emissions by almost 30% and increase GDP by more than 60% since 1990, which is the year from which it is usually measured. And now the EU has a common objective. Sweden is pushing on here too. Under the alliance government, an aid policy performance strategy for global efforts for environmental and climate sustainable development was also adopted from 2014 until 2017. Environment is a priority in the development policy platform, i.e. the paper that governs the activities. The environment, climate and the green economy are also themes of EU aid. Climate change has a direct impact on security issues. And aid plays an important role in climate policy. That is why it has been particularly tricky now that the Red-Green Government has not wanted to give a comprehensive answer to whether the budget that we are going to debate soon, on 14 December, is valid or not. It contributes to uncertainty on several levels. The red-green government has written in its budget about increased ambitions, but at the same time the Ministry of Finance has announced reductions of 60 percent of the aid. Today we have seen in the media that it may stop at 30%. But it can be compared to 7% when we ruled. It has been impossible to get a comprehensive response from the government. And unfortunately, the Green Party has chosen to withdraw from today's debate. Finally, the committee assumes that Sweden and the EU continue to be leaders in international climate action. We assume that Sweden and the EU, even after the climate summit in Paris, will actively ensure that the climate issue is high on the foreign policy agenda and taken up in the framework of all relevant international and bilateral cooperation. Something else is unthinkable.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-879	Mr President, I would like to In a few days, the climate summit, COP 21, will begin in Paris. It is a moment of destiny for the climate, and it is a moment of destiny for mankind. Ban Ki Moon, UN Secretary General, usually says that we are the first generation to eradicate poverty, but that we are also the last generation to save the climate. That's absolutely true. But if our generation is to succeed in its great task of saving the climate, our efforts must increase, and they must increase now. Christiana Figueres, Secretary General of the United Nations Secretariat for the UNFCCC, has stated that even if all the world's climate action were to be implemented – to the last crown, to the last syllable – it would at best lead to a rise in temperature of 2.7 degrees in this century. As I said, it is based on the fact that everyone is doing what they have already promised. Even if we were to reach a target of 2.7 degrees, it would mean very dramatic climate change that is in danger of destroying entire societies and fundamentally changing our planet. We know that those who will be most affected by climate change, and who are already most affected today, are not those of us who are in this House. It is the rice farmer in Bangladesh, it is the woman who grows quinoa on the slopes of the Andes and it is the poor in the Sahel. They will pay the price if we fail to face climate change. These people are already paying a very high price. Climate change is not something that only our grandchildren will notice. They are already visible today, in Mali, in Vietnam and in Tuvalu. If we are to prevent this development, new commitments are needed. New efforts are needed, and we need to do so now. I saw Anote Anote, President of the Republic of Kiribati, in a letter to the world's Heads of State and Government calling for a stop to the exploitation of coal, a moratorium on coal mining. This is the type of action that is needed in this very serious situation. We are eagerly waiting for Stefan Löfven to respond to President Tong's letter. Sweden is a country that is well equipped to do much more climate action and commitments than we have already done. We should be able to do more to reduce our emissions, and we should be able to do more to ensure that the EU adopts even more ambitious reduction targets. We could do more to transfer the latest environmental technologies to developing countries. We could do more for new and additional climate finance for climate aid. We could do more to adapt the development aid that we already have, and we could do more to meet the demands that developing countries are now making for compensation and compensation for the losses and costs caused by climate change that we in the richest countries have created. This should be our most important foreign policy issue, because climate change leads to conflicts and migration flows. We see that climate change leads to weaker states and undermines the work of democracy. We see that climate change leads to increased poverty, inequality and gender gaps. But formally, the climate is being dealt with in committees other than the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and that is why the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which is on Parliament's table today, is a rather slim product with only one reservation. This is quite formally correct from the division of labour that we have in Parliament. However, I believe that in the coming years climate issues will be too important to be borne by a single committee. I am absolutely convinced that with the enormous challenges we face, the entire Parliament, all elected representatives, will have to make climate issues its most important issues. I hope and believe that in the coming years we can ensure that climate issues become central to our joint discussions on Sweden's foreign and development policy.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-890	Mr President, I would like to The government has presented an ambitious agenda for the Paris Environment Summit next week. This is good, because Sweden should be a country at the forefront of the environment. I am pleased that the government has presented in its budget efforts on climate action in other, often poorer countries. It is rational, effective and fair climate policy. It is also a good thing that the Green Party, which is unfortunately lacking in this House now but which has long been opposed to all similar measures, has come to its senses on this issue. However, among all the good initiatives and fine words, there are two words which are missing, namely the European Union. Of course, the UN and other organisations are important. I am the first to emphasise the importance of global gathering. But Sweden must work with and through the EU. Sweden needs the EU, and the EU needs Sweden. It is serious that the government in this area continues to be sloppy with Europe. When the new Polish Government called a major press conference this morning, the EU flag had been symbolically removed. Hungary has long used the EU as a spit cup, and the UK hesitates to cooperate. But to me as a Liberal, it is clear that the events of autumn demonstrate the importance of European cooperation. Everyone will understand that stronger European cooperation had changed the situation in the area of asylum. However, the difficulty of getting along sometimes and on certain issues does not mean that we should lower our ambitions in all other policy areas – on the contrary. When France's capital Paris was attacked by Islamist terrorists, it was precisely the European Charter that François Hollande invoked. Sweden and many other countries responded quickly. Together, we are strong. This also applies to climate and energy issues. A clear common European agenda is crucial for achieving the goal of halving CO2 emissions by 2030. In this area, we in the Liberals and the rest of the Alliance have been very clear. We want to see a sharper EU focus on the part of the government. It is not possible to rely solely on various UN agreements, which can, of course, be regarded as setting a kind of minimum level, especially since the European countries have come much further and are much more ambitious in their sustainability visions. The EU is by far the most credible region in dealing with the environment. Europe, which is the scene of the industrial revolution, currently accounts for little 9% of global emissions. Sometimes some environmental organizations and parties have declared growth their enemy. According to their worldview, the people should not consume any more. But European history shows that the choice is hardly between the environment and capitalism. We do not have to stop one thing in order to preserve the other. Growth is not the enemy. It is perfectly possible to reconcile growth with concern for the climate. Since 1990, EU growth has increased by 45%. During the same period, emissions have decreased by 19%. But it is not just growth that the government challenges by ignoring the EU. Safety is also at stake. No one in this House can be unaware that Vladimir Putin's Russia is militarily threatening its neighbours and parts of Europe. Putin uses environmental and energy policy as an effective means of power. In 2006, gas supplies to Ukraine were stopped, leading to gas depletion in a number of EU countries as well. The Russian pressure was an attempt to get Ukraine to refrain from concluding association agreements with the EU. We have seen similar situations in our neighbouring countries in the Baltic countries. These are countries that are heavily dependent on getting their gas from Russia. At a time when safety in our neighbourhood is worse than in decades and energy issues are being used as a security policy instrument by Russia, we should look much more closely at the Swedish nuclear power plants and see energy policy in a wider European and security policy context. Mr President, I would like to Energy issues are highly cross-border and benefit from stronger EU cooperation. Sweden should be much more proactive here.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-908	Mr President, I would like to This is an important report and an important debate. This is important in terms of time – in five days' time, the UN climate conference COP 21 will begin in Paris. But it is also an important position on the part of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. We have a responsibility to see and make visible the link between climate and conflict, between climate and peace and security, and between climate and our foreign and aid policies. In July, the third UN International Conference on Financing for Development took place in Addis Abeba. In order to eradicate poverty and finance the new global sustainability agenda, all sources of funding – public and private, domestic and international – need to pool and interact. The declaration adopted is important and links the development and sustainability agendas in a way that has not previously happened. The new framework includes commitments on tax cooperation, sustainable lending and how investments and other financing should be sustainable from an environmental and climate perspective. The Agenda is now the basis for meeting the new sustainability objectives adopted in New York in September, which aim to eradicate poverty and stimulate sustainable development. The conclusions stressed that social and economic development depended on the sustainable use of earth's natural resources. Mr President, I would like to In the international climate debate, there is an almost completely overlooked factor: democracy. That factor was absent from the agenda adopted in Addis, and unfortunately democracy is not one of the new sustainability objectives. There are several rankings of the world's greenest economies. They measure in slightly different ways and achieve different results. But whoever looks at 20 or 30-in-top will almost exclusively find democracies. Progress in the climate area is much more likely if the position of democracy in the world is strengthened, but democracy and freedom in the world are in decline. For example, countries such as Sudan and Venezuela were given room in the debate following the failed climate summit in Copenhagen in 2010, as if these countries with any credibility could assert concern for the global climate. Mr President, I would like to Climate change risks leading to further tensions with new conflicts and increased flows of refugees as a result. Droughts, floods, lack of clean water and extreme weather conditions are contributing to poverty and conflict. When the Slamish state kills mercilessly and al-Asad-Assad bombs its own population with oil barrels, it sometimes feels a little out of date to talk about the climate as a villain and cause conflict. However, we cannot ignore the fact that climate-related problems make a major contribution to conflict. Successful climate adaptation work, for example, which can provide protection against floods and contribute to conversions in order for agriculture to manage droughts, is a key factor in conflict prevention. In foreign policy, diplomacy is central. Unfortunately, something that has been somewhat obscured in the debate in Sweden when we talk about the climate is that climate diplomacy is required. Many EU countries have expressed climate diplomacy strategies with clear targets and plans for which countries are most likely to have a positive impact. We in Sweden need in a much more committed and strategic way to collaborate with our like-minded countries, inside and outside the EU, in a coordinated climate diplomacy effort. On its own, Sweden has little influence over other countries' emission levels. Therefore, it is all the more important to seek collaboration and make sure to contribute with what we can in the big puzzle. This is how we create added value. This is how Sweden's efforts can have meaning, as a piece of the puzzle in the big picture. Finally, Mr President, the Committee stresses that Swedish aid is a key instrument for improving the environment, reducing climate impact and strengthening resilience to environmental impacts, climate change and natural disasters. At a time when the aid budget is under strain, strict priorities are needed in aid. In order to halt climate change and contribute to societal adjustments to the extent that changes have already taken place, it is precisely investments that are needed that can generate more economic, social and environmental benefits both now and over time. We Christian Democrats see it as still urgent to earmark funds for the Green Climate Fund in order to continue contributing to climate adaptation and prevention where they are most needed.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-922	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes you can make decisions in life that affect your family, such as looking for a job abroad and having your family with you. For this reason, it is good that we have a system of international schools where children of people who are going to work abroad have the opportunity to get their education and not lose several years of the knowledge to which they are entitled. The report and the Government proposal consider that a strengthening of the right of international schools to charge tuition fees for pupils whose school costs are covered by public subsidies should be done. According to the Government's assessment, fees shall only be charged for reasonable additional costs related to the compliance of education with another country's curriculum or international curriculum, including additional costs for accreditation or authorisation and fees to relevant organisations, or that the primary target group to which the school is addressed is not the same as in the school system. The committee and the Government also consider that the fees should be reasonable in view of the costs which are intended to cover the grants received by schools and the other circumstances. This is explicitly stated in the report. The government's choice to tighten up the rules is welcome, but I do not think it is enough. In order for everyone to have the same right to knowledge and education, there is no charge within the Swedish school system. This requirement should be imposed on all education organised at primary and secondary level in Sweden, even in cases where there is a need to place children in an international school. These schools should not be reserved for a wealthy elite, as they have unfortunately been too often. We welcome, of course, the fact that all parties have agreed that we should ensure that we clarify and facilitate the rules so that students do not get caught. But the question remains. If we in Sweden are to have a school where there is no charge, why should the private international schools be able to continue to charge fees according to the proposal? Even if the law is tightened up, we believe that it is unreasonable, given the history of some schools charging 100 000 SEK, to continue to have a system that does not set any limit on the fees, but merely says that there should be reasonable and reasonable costs. What are reasonable costs? Should we continue to say that in Sweden we stand for a school where there is no charge, or should we change the wording and say that fees may occur if they are reasonable? The position of the Left Party there is very clear. In view of what I have said, I would like to support the Left Party's reservation.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-929	Mr President, I would like to Today we have to debate and decide on the report of the Committee on Education and Training on international schools. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. I think it is important to point out to the listener that this is not about boarding schools, which have been the subject of both political scrutiny and debate on previous occasions. International schools are a form of education of their own, and if I sum up briefly, these are schools aimed mainly at foreign students who, because of their parents' work for a short or limited period of time, are staying in Sweden and therefore need schooling. This gives the opportunity to fulfil the schooling requirements that apply to all those who are staying in Sweden. To be able to study according to both the international and Swedish curriculum during this short period is not reasonable and usually not feasible either. It is already possible for an independent school to offer teaching only according to the international curriculum. This possibility has not previously been provided for municipal authorities. There are municipalities that want to help facilitate the education offer, so not only are they forced but they want to broaden the offer so that children of visiting researchers, entrepreneurs, professors and others who temporarily stay in Sweden are given a good opportunity for education. As a result, these municipalities risk a penalty payment when they violate the school law. It is therefore urgent that the decision be made and that we have implementation as soon as possible. The Government therefore proposes in the bill that municipal authorities should also be given the right to provide teaching with an international curriculum or another country's curriculum, i.e. be the head of international school. Mr President, I would like to Further proposals for decisions relate to the right to charge fees. There is a reservation, as indicated in the previous speech. A free school today has the opportunity to charge a fee corresponding to the additional costs of teaching under international or foreign curricula. As Daniel Riazat of the Left Party rightly pointed out, it is a tightening up of the present proposal. Nevertheless, I would like very briefly to quote what the proposal and also the report say, namely that the reasons why schools are allowed to charge fees are assumed to be higher costs, among other things. because schools have high student turnover and that many students neither know Swedish nor the language of instruction spoken in school to a sufficient extent. ... Such costs the government perceives are more related to the target group of students to which international schools turn than to the curriculum that international schools follow. ..................................................... It could be concluded that it should therefore always be allowed to charge a fee, but the Government's proposal is that a municipal principal should not charge any kind of fee. I would like to add that there is another reason for this, namely that municipal authorities also offer schooling for those who move here for a short, limited time and who do not have the economy that allows tuition fees. Mr President, I would like to In addition to the need for legislation that accompanies a world that is increasingly internationalised, where people move across our borders and exchange experiences and knowledge, it is important to emphasise the role and importance of these schools. Without them, it will be difficult to recruit researchers, business leaders and other international world-class skills. It enriches higher education, Sweden's knowledge development, scientific progress and business development. It is an important part of an internationally competitive world.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-938	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lena Hallengren, for the report! We agree, in principle, with everything contained in the proposal and the report, except precisely the part relating to the fees. Lena Hallengren says that the municipalities do not charge any fees. At the same time, municipalities should now be allowed to follow international curricula or the curriculum of another country; for the most part, it will probably be international curricula. The question then is whether there is no additional cost for municipal schools as well. And why is it that we want one school to be able to charge fees but not the other school? The question will in the end be why any school should be able to charge fees at all, regardless of what it is for children who go there. Lena Hallengren mentioned, among other things, that there are students who do not know either the language of their home country or the Swedish language. Then the question is: Do not all schools in Sweden today have pupils who do not know either Swedish or their mother tongue, i.e. children who are illiterate, etc.? Should municipal schools also start charging fees? I know that Lena Hallengren does not think so, but I think it is important to ensure that children in international schools are allowed to attend a school free of charge. Otherwise, we will divide international schools into a B-team and an A-team, and that is exactly what will happen now with the new decision.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-943	Mr President, I would like to You can have a long discussion about fees and the right to free education. There I have no other opinion than Daniel Riazat and many others in this House. However, as I said in my speech, I would like to emphasise that the government believes that a certain charge for an independent international school is permitted. This means that the municipality that stands as a municipality of residence simply accounts for the fee that school attendance entails but not for the additional cost of having a school where the student base looks very different. I do not mean that the students have other needs or may need extra support, but that the students are there for a shorter time, there is another throughput and it can be difficult to recruit staff. The alternative would have been to say that all schools, municipal and independent, could charge fees, but we do of course mean that municipal authorities and the public school system should not have fees. However, it is justified to allow it in this type of teaching, and this does not refer to the curriculum but to the student documentation available.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-945	Mr President, I would like to The alternative is not to say that municipal schools should also be able to charge fees. There is a clear alternative, and that is to state that there is freedom of charge in Sweden and that this is the principle we should follow. There may be some additional costs– there may be other teaching materials used, and there may be a different kind of cost for students attending international schools– but are fees the solution? Is not the solution rather that we are changing the way in which resources are distributed in schools, so that there is a more need-appropriate economic system than what we have today? This is an important issue. We agree that international schools are important. We agree that the regulatory changes and changes that are being made are also important. On the other hand, we do not agree whether this will create an A and a B team. I believe that this will create an A and a B team. It has done so in the past, too, because, in principle, this with charges has been unregulated. Just saying that it should be a reasonable cost is not a real limit on the fee. There are currently regulations on other areas of school, which also talk about reasonable costs, which has not been successful. In view of the fact that hundreds of thousands of dollars in fees have been charged in the past, this will be a problem. What does Lena Hallengren, chairman of the Education Committee, think about this?
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-949	Mr President, I would like to One should not apostrophe the opponent too much in his last line, but I would still say that the figure of hundreds of thousands of crowns in fees more applies to boarding schools. But I suppose it won't matter if this discussion can spill over in that area. Unreasonable fees are not something we consider desirable in the school system. I cannot really add much more than I said in my speech and in my first reply. A fee that is considered reasonable, which is a tightening up in relation to what it has been like in the past, is possible to charge. However, this does not mean that you can charge any fee, but you should also be granted the opportunity to run an international school, and you should also be granted the right to charge a fee. The fees shall be reasonable in view of the costs they are intended to cover, the grants received by the schools and the other circumstances. One should probably not belittle the fact that a student's municipality of residence is thus not obliged to replace more than what the school's place itself is supposed to be. There is nothing to prevent monitoring and evaluation of this. I am pleased that we are now getting a tightening up of charges, and I am pleased that we can now offer a municipal alternative to anyone who wishes to do so. Above all, I think it is positive that those municipalities that want to be active in running international schools are given this opportunity. I believe that we should be proactive, and this could perhaps attract researchers, companies and other actors to establish themselves, at least for a shorter period of time.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-952	Mr President, I would like to With knowledge and education, we lay the foundation for our future prosperity in Sweden. Around this there seems to be broad agreement in this House. Anyone who remembers the discussion from the OECD about the PISA report and the like knows that there were also some good reviews on Swedish education policy. Not least, the great importance that the Swedish political parties attach to education is something that unites us, which develops Swedish schools and also has the opportunity to do so in the future. The competitiveness of the future for Sweden is not just about the need to have good Swedish educations and good Swedish schools, although it is of course a prerequisite. The competitiveness conditions of the future and the ability for Sweden to have the most world-leading, innovative and growing companies in an increasingly globalised market require that we also have the opportunity to attract the best and most skilled talents. International schools play an important role in enabling companies to recruit specialists, researchers and managers from other countries. They are given the opportunity to choose Sweden, because here they can not only find a developing job at an innovative company but also build a good life for their family. The education we can offer is therefore incredibly important. International schools thus meet a great need for Sweden's future. The Alliance calls for approval of the proposal put forward by the Government and finds it important and gratifying that it also develops international schools and ensures that they have the opportunity to operate in the future. This is both good education policy and good nutrition policy. Attractiveness to place your company here in Sweden or to apply for employment here increases when you also get the opportunity to go to a school with a curriculum that matches the country you come from or that suits you well. The bill develops the possibility for municipalities to run international schools. It clarifies the regulatory framework and ensures that it also becomes clear how it should be run and done. It's basically good. Maintaining the possibility of charging reasonable fees, which have been the subject of discussion in this House, is directly necessary. The fact that you can charge a reasonable fee is crucial to the existence of these schools. The additional costs that the international curriculum entails with the need to recruit teachers and the like, means that you cannot deliver the education based solely on the student money you can get in Sweden. Reasonable fees are therefore not a question of ideological residence but of practical conditions for these schools to exist and operate in Sweden. The bill is a step in the right direction to develop Swedish international schools and thereby make the Swedish school system attractive from an international perspective. What is possibly missing, and where the government and the majority have reason to return, is the need to develop the international preschools as well. We know this is of great importance in order to feel that it is attractive to settle in Sweden when looking for specialist assignments and the like. In the proposal that is on the table of this House today, there is nothing about preschools. The Alliance therefore calls on the government to come back to this issue, so that we can strengthen Swedish competitiveness, strengthen Swedish education throughout the chain and ensure that companies and experts choose to go to Sweden. I'm in favour of the bill.
i-a0f550edc4e634d5-961	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. This is a positive step. It is a very good report and a very good proposal from the government. Thank you, the Alliance, who thinks this is a good education policy! In a globalised world with a globalised education system and a globalised economy, it is extremely important that we offer opportunities for people who want to move across borders. It is extremely important that the children of people who come to Sweden for research or to study – it can also be business leaders and others – have good opportunities to go to school in the new country. In this case it is Sweden. In order for us to maintain Sweden's position at the forefront, it is important that we can attract the best researchers and the best corporate leaders. Then we also need to be able to offer their children good opportunities to study here in Sweden during the time they are here. It could be a year; it could be a couple of years. An international school means an education that does not follow the Swedish curriculum but another curriculum or an international curriculum and is primarily aimed at pupils who reside in Sweden for a limited period of time. In Sweden it has become increasingly common for people to be in need of such schools. Mr President, I would like to Today it is only possible to go to those schools with people other than municipalities. It is not possible for municipalities to start international schools. We think it is important that we give the municipalities opportunities. They should also be able to offer international schools. That is the main objective of this proposal. The possibility is now also extended to the municipalities. This is an important step forward. As far as the fees are concerned, it is very clear in the bill that the fees that other principals may charge must be reasonable. They have to be reasonable. Otherwise, they lose the right to pursue the training. They can't withdraw any money. My colleague from the Social Democrats, Lena Hallengren, said earlier today: You should not confuse them with other schools that charge a fee of 100 000 or 200 000 SEK per year. This is about a limited number of schools with fees due to additional costs. Due to the curriculum or other things, there may be some additional costs that make it possible to charge fees. These fees shall be reasonable. We in the Green Party believe that this is a very good and necessary reform that needs to be done to develop the Swedish school but also to be able to offer people who come to Sweden for a short time the opportunity to have their children in school during the short period.
