i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-0	Mr President, I would like to The extraordinary summit on the refugee crisis ended some time after midnight. A joint statement was made. The discussion focused above all on – as I recalled to the Board yesterday that I assumed to be addressed at the meeting – the foreign policy dimension. So it was about what the EU can do to help people on the ground. What more can the EU do to help resolve existing conflicts? We also had a good discussion on how to protect the EU's external borders, how to ensure reception centres, so-called hotspots, and how to set them up quickly. From yesterday's meeting, I would particularly like to mention six areas on which we have agreed. The first area is increased support for the UNHCR and the World Food Programme by a total of EUR 1 billion, equivalent to around SEK 9 billion. The addition is, of course, very important for us to be able to have good humanitarian aid in Syria and its immediate vicinity. The second area is increased financial support through EU regional programmes to Jordan, Turkey, Lebanon and other countries directly affected by the crisis in Syria and also receiving many refugees. The third area I would like to mention is increased support for the countries of the Western Balkans. They are close to the EU and take a huge responsibility for the refugee situation. Deeper cooperation with these countries, including greater financial support, naturally creates better conditions for both legal certainty and effective management of the refugee crisis and also greater success in combating traffickers. The fourth area, which I specifically mentioned, was how the EU can take greater responsibility in the Syria conflict. We agreed to emphasise the leading role of the UN. I think it is absolutely crucial that we maintain the track that it is the UN that should be the leader. I also argued that the EU should press for an international contact group to be set up in support of the UN and UN envoy Staffan de Mistura. Now, the question of Syria will be followed up at the forthcoming Foreign Minister's meeting in just over two weeks' time, and we have great opportunities in the coming weeks to raise this issue constantly in the context of the United Nations meetings that will be held in New York, where I am going this afternoon. The fifth area is that we agreed to free up more resources, staff and equipment to maintain the EU's external border. The sixth and last area I would like to mention, Mr President, is that we stated that the European Union must have and put in order the reception of the countries with external borders to participate in the redistribution of refugees. Therefore, reception centres, so-called hotspots, will be in place by November this year. Mr President, I would like to I believe that yesterday's meeting was a step forward. We managed to take a few more steps, and we could do so for two reasons. The first reason is that we managed to agree on new concrete measures. The second reason, perhaps even more important to note, is that we had a pragmatic discussion without a high tone or accusation. After the recent trials to which the European Union has been subjected, I think it was important for the Heads of State or Government of the European Union to have a confident dialogue on one of the major challenges of our time. Just as the European Union agreed yesterday on what I have just told you about, I am pleased with the large turnout that exists in Parliament for the European Union to take responsibility for people on the run. All Member States must shoulder their responsibilities. There must be order in the reception, and Europe must become more active in order for people not to have to flee at all. That, Mr President, will continue to push the government hard.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-14	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the report of yesterday's European Council. It's certainly been an eventful week. The reason, of course, is the disaster that is happening right now in Syria and in the immediate region. One might think that much more needs to be done by both the UN and the European Union. But we must also look at the positive side, as the Prime Minister said. Small steps are also steps. I therefore welcome this week's various decisions. Among other things, it has been a matter of starting to distribute. All countries must take responsibility. I regret the fact that four countries side by side, but it is good that the decision was reached. In the same way, it should then apply in Sweden. It is not just about the distribution of refugees, it is also about the title of the meeting yesterday, that is, how you work in the immediate area of humanitarian intervention and for the UN to have an increased role in resolving the conflict, why it has arisen and curbed it. These are small steps in the right direction. We will have reason to come back to this issue. Nevertheless, I think that we must take a positive view of what has been. It is a question of helping on the ground and keeping order and order in the reception of asylum. All countries are to accept escapes. This is the best way to safeguard the right of asylum. At the same time, those who do not have the right to asylum must, of course, return, and this must be done in an orderly manner. With this, I wish good luck in the continuing important work on solving the terrible refugee disaster that is going on.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-21	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your support! As I said on the board yesterday, it is important that the Swedish Parliament can be so united in its humanitarian ambition. It is a great strength when you sit in Brussels. It is not the case that the other countries are uninterested, but it is extremely good to have support in the back. The support will be needed, not least for the complex situation that the Syria conflict actually represents. Yesterday, for example, the proposal for some kind of protected zone was discussed inside Syria. But where is it supposed to be? The western parts are governed by the regime. Some parts are controlled by IS. In other parts, the Kurdish question is more important. It's an extremely complex conflict. That is why I think it is important that we maintain the compass direction that it is support for the UN that is what is important and that the UN handles the conflict with the experience and competence that is there. The support is crucial for us to start taking a few steps. Right now, no peace process is worthy of the name. That is why I put so much emphasis on it. Without being naive, individual EU countries can do much. That is why I would like to raise this issue in discussion with representatives of both the European Union and the United Nations. I will meet the Secretary-General of the United Nations in New York. We have to take every chance. We need to get something going. The war cannot last year after year.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-24	Mr President, I would like to Two minutes is short time. One issue I did not raise in my previous speech concerns the immediate area around Syria. Many times it is perceived that it is Europe that takes full responsibility. It's not like that. Europe receives a gutter. It is another thing that more countries have to share responsibility in Europe, but the biggest responsibility actually takes the countries around Syria, such as Turkey and Lebanon. It is, in my opinion, an important part of the declaration or statement that the EU is now ready to make efforts to help there. As usual in the case of refugee crises, it is the immediate region that takes the greatest responsibility, while very few people come to Europe proportionally. I would like the Prime Minister to develop further if there are any thoughts on how this support will develop.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-27	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it is first of all the humanitarian aid we need to increase in order to really ensure that the UNHCR and the World Food Programme have enough resources to help people there. Unfortunately, as you know, both organisations have dwindling resources, in fact they have run out of resources, so there is an urgent need. There's a real rush. It is this year that something has to happen. It is clear that in the moment you can do more there, fewer people feel the need, or the compulsion, to get out of there to a decent life at all. It does not relieve us of the obligation to do what we are going to do here at home, but it is important. I can also say that a few words were, of course, changed about Libya. We got Libya into the conclusions and the importance of maintaining something similar to a Libyan state in order to deal with that stream of refugees.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-30	Mr President, I would like to For too long too few countries within the European Union have taken responsibility for facing the refugee crisis that we see and have seen for a long time. The Moderates' line has been clear: more countries need to do more. As more countries do more, together we can create security and security for people fleeing for their lives from war and oppression. The Union is now facing major challenges. Not many of the 60 million refugees around the world have come to Europe. It is about half a million of those who have come to Europe. Nevertheless, we face major challenges. We now need to keep the Union together and stand up for the values on which the European Union is actually based and to which we are committed. In this context, it is of the utmost importance that the right of asylum be safeguarded and respected. It is in times like these that humanity and humanity are being tested, and it is in times when the right to asylum is most needed. Yesterday's European Council statements on better control of the EU's external borders are necessary to maintain and guarantee order and order in the refugee system. It is essential to create and retain the legitimacy and acceptance of an open Europe, as we want to see. I wonder: how did the discussion go about this? What does the reinforcement of the external border mean? Is it a common European border control force? Is it more barbed wire fence, or how did the discussion go? What line did the Prime Minister take? What does the Prime Minister think Sweden's contribution to this discussion should be, where and will be in the future?
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-36	Mr President, I would like to I fully share the view that it is now a question of keeping Europe together. That is why I expressed joy and satisfaction that we could have the discussion we had yesterday. It is now crucial that Europe can stay together, and we show that we can. That ambition exists. Asylum law is absolutely fundamental and crucial. It must be combined with order, because that is when we also gain legitimacy and can make it work. As far as the EU's borders are concerned, it is up to each Member State to ensure that the borders are maintained. I represent the line that this is not an EU mandate. Each nation must be responsible for its borders. That is an important issue. On the other hand, we can certainly increase cooperation, not least cooperation and assistance to the countries to which many come, such as Italy and Greece. That is why we want to put these so-called hotspots in order where we can bring resources, both people and others, so that it can work well. Otherwise, the obligation for all countries to comply with the rules applicable to border control applies. But it is definitely a national matter, and I also expressed it.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-41	Mr President, I would like to The attitude of the Moderates is that we should help those who come here to Sweden and to Europe, but that we should also be better at helping those who are in the immediate vicinity of the crisis. Therefore, we Moderates have previously proposed that we redirect Swedish aid in order to strengthen Syria's neighbourhood. Then the Minister for Development said no to it. Now we see the statement by the European Council that it is going forward to strengthen, for example, the World Food Programme in the immediate region.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-44	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it is clear that we need to increase aid. That is why we agreed that the UNHCR and the World Food Programme, as well as other organisations, must have more resources to make it possible to have good humanitarian aid in the neighbourhood. The EU's money can be redirected, yes. You can do that, and that is the discussion that is about to begin. We will have to come back with proposals from the Commission on how to proceed. We as a country have said that we are increasing our aid to, for example, the World Food Programme. We think it is extremely important. We also want to review the possibility of targeting more of our core support to the UNHCR directly to the Syria conflict and the immediate region there. There are two proposals on our part. However, the EU budget can definitely be redirected.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-47	Mr President, I would like to At summits like this there are usually some positive things but mostly negative things. I'll start with the positives. It is, of course, positive that the European Union has realised that we need to invest more resources in the neighbourhood. The negative is, of course, that Sweden has reduced its own share on the top list of countries that contribute to investing resources specifically on the countries in the neighbourhood, in the vicinity of the conflicts. It is a good thing to invest in the external border, but it also involves a question. What do you invest in in strengthening the external border? Should we ensure that people are better controlled, that migration flows are better managed? Or is it a question of making it easier for refugees, especially asylum seekers, to go to Europe? That is what has been the case in the past when we have talked about strengthening external border protection. I think we need to have a little deeper discussion there. They say they want to stop the war. Of course, we think that's great. Above all, it is good that the European Union has realised that it is not something that the European Union alone can do but that it must do so on the part of the United Nations. As the Prime Minister mentioned, I think it's a great thing to bring up. We have not been in order for Swedish or European asylum reception for many years. For example, we have previously seen statistics that 95% of those applying for asylum in Sweden lack access to passports or ID documents. I would like to ask the Prime Minister what he means by strengthening the order and already in the management of migration. Does this mean that in the future we in Sweden and the EU should demand that people can somehow identify themselves? Or should we continue to maintain an asylum system where we have absolutely no idea which people we are actually receiving?
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-54	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to Sweden decreasing: The image that Johnny Skalin wants to give of Sweden's support in the immediate region and in Syria, there is no one else who shares. When I meet colleagues in Europe and in the EU, they say that Sweden is an example. We are one of the most important humanitarian donors. We are number five in absolute numbers, and Sweden is not a big country. We are number one in terms of per capita aid. We have absolutely nothing to be ashamed of. In addition, they are happy and proud of Sweden, because we take such a great responsibility and show how to promote a solidarity-based refugee policy. That is the message we are getting from the European Union. I don't hear any of what Skalin expressed. As far as the external border is concerned, there are rules on how borders should be handled and how border controls should be carried out. At the same time, however, the right of asylum applies. All EU Member States agree on this. The individual right to apply for asylum must exist, and Sweden will stand up for it – always. It is a moral issue, a matter of decency, but it is also linked to the international regulatory framework that Sweden is covered by. When you describe it as there is no order and know about Swedish refugee reception, I reject it. I recommend Skalin a visit to the refugee reception in Solna or the accommodation in Märsta. Hard work is being done, because it is an effort, and I have said so before. But to say that there is no order is directly wrong, and it serves no purpose to black out what Sweden does. We're doing something really big and good.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-58	Mr President, I would like to I do not agree that we are spending enough resources on the UNHCR. I am also building on the Prime Minister's statement that other countries contribute very little. Sweden also does so in relation to what we add to migration. I was elected to the Swedish Parliament five years ago. When I was elected, we invested 5.7 billion in the area of migration in Sweden. The latest draft budget, supported by the Prime Minister, has reached over 19 billion. It's an increase of over 3.37 times. We are therefore investing considerably more resources now to receive people in Sweden than to help people on the ground. I think that is a wrong principle. I think this is the wrong way to go. I also find it regrettable to be forced to sit here and witness a Prime Minister who claims that we have order and order in our migration reception. In the past, we have seen statistics that 95% of people cannot even identify themselves. That, I mean, is not order. If it is the Prime Minister's opinion, it must stand for him, but it does not in any way relate to reality.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-61	Mr President, I would like to Once again, I note that the image that Mrs Skalin wants to convey is not correct. UNHCR also gives strong expression of gratitude to Sweden. We are regarded as one of the really good friends of the UNHCR through our assistance and support. Of course there will be more costs when more people arrive. This is because we have the biggest refugee crisis since the Second World War. People run for their lives. Then that's it. But to say that there is chaos and no order in our system is wrong. Of course there are those who do not have their documents, and it must be dealt with. I noticed yesterday – I thought I heard wrong, and I did – that Skalin said that it is clear that we should have an asylum and refugee reception. That is what we have, and we will stand up for it in a good way.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-64	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for your report. Thanks also for the effort at the meeting yesterday! I'm sure it was a full day's work. The really big and important decision at this meeting is the massive increase in aid to the immediate region. This will cause many refugees to have food this winter. This will mean that many people in the area have a roof over their heads. It was important for the EU to step into this crucial moment and say that it is helping here. What concerns me somewhat when I read about the conclusions that have been adopted is the emphasis on border control without it being supplemented by legal means. There is, of course, a risk, if we tighten up border controls but do not open up the possibility of seeking asylum legally, that we are forcing people into the hands of the refugee smugglers. That risk remains obvious. The Prime Minister has very clearly criticised Hungary for the inhumane treatment of asylum seekers. The United Nations Refugee Agency (UNHCR) has also strongly criticised Hungary. I think that is a good thing and a clarification. However, it raises an issue that is linked to our own asylum policy. Sweden no longer sends Dublin cases back to Greece. We have chosen not to do so, because Greece is not capable of receiving it. Is it not time to draw the same conclusion with regard to Hungary? Is it not time for Sweden to stop sending Dublin cases back to Hungary?
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-68	Mr President, I would like to I fully share Jonas Sjöstedt's view on the increase in aid and what it will mean. It will mean a huge difference for people who are vulnerable. As far as legal ways are concerned, there will be more advocates, hear and be amazed. Two meetings ago I was probably the only one who mentioned the word, but there are more. I noted that the President of the Commission, Mr Juncker, also mentioned in his speech to the Union a number of legal ways. You can mean a little different things with it, but the concept is there. This is where we need to get to grips. That is why I have also put forward the idea of cooperation with the UNHCR, an organisation with a good reputation that is stable and knowledgeable, which could be a start to work on more legal ways. We'll have to keep working on this. But I note that more people are talking about it, actually. The fact that we would stop sending people back to Hungary is out of the question. We follow the rules that apply now, and we intend to continue to do so. Something that does not really have to do with this but which is in the same heat is the discussion about which countries should be regarded as safe. There will be such a list where the Western Balkans will be included.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-71	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister. After all, a country has a choice to send back Dublin cases or not. If we now know that those we return risk inhumane treatment, we have the opportunity not to send any cases back to Hungary. There may be quite a few such cases in the future. It's a little uncertain, but the risk is obvious. We have come to this conclusion with regard to Greece. Greece does not have a functioning refugee reception, you might say. Now that the UN bodies in the field of refugees, and indeed the Prime Minister himself, have so clearly stated that it is an inhumane treatment of refugees in Hungary, is it not time to draw the same conclusion with regard to that country? If we do not trust refugees to be cared for in a humane and legally secure way, we should not reasonably return them.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-73	Mr President, I would like to The criticism of Hungary has several dimensions. One concerns the statement: Muslims we do not want! Then, I mean, they've passed the low-water mark of what's acceptable. It does not correspond to European values at all. The second is, of course, that both tear gas and other things have been used. That's not good. What this should lead to is primarily a matter for the Commission. It is up to the Commission to ensure that the respective Member States comply with the rules and how we stand up for our values. It is the Commission that can take such initiatives. I mean that Sweden should not take its own initiative there and stop sending people back, but we follow the rules as far as possible. If the Commission were to act in any way, we would see what that might mean.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-75	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for another report! This is not a new crisis, even if it sounds so in Swedish media. The Council of Europe marked this already in 2010 – 2011 and warned of the humanitarian crisis on the other side of Syria's border, in Turkey. But as usual – parallels can be drawn to vulnerable EU migrants – we do not react until it burns right at our own doorstep. This is a major problem. I think we've come to the end of the road here. It is very much the time for us as liberals and all the others who are friends of the European Union to really make sure that the European Union stands up and is strong. We say that Sweden is a strong moral state, but it should very much be the European Union as well. It is also important for those who are not friends of the European Union to stand up now, because otherwise we have nationalist and xenophobic movements all the time. The Prime Minister pointed out that there was a good tone of conversation and a good climate for conversation yesterday. That's always nice. Yet today we read Orbán's statement that we do not want to change because of the refugee crisis – the Muslims were, of course, up as usual. The Prime Minister of Slovakia even promises to fight the distribution of refugees in the European Court of Justice. Then, of course, I ask the question: how can the EU act with one voice when we do not get a consensus within the EU-28? How's the discussion going? If you now have a good tone of conversation, internally anyway, does the Prime Minister feel that you can actually influence the four countries that today have chosen to stand outside? We need more than 28 countries to solve the crisis. We are talking about 120 000 individuals now, but in fact 60 or 70 million people are fleeing for their lives.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-79	Mr President, I would like to As Tina Acketoft rightly said, the risk of what might happen has been highlighted from an early stage of the Syria conflict. The discussion on the errors committed during the journey will continue for a long time. But now it's time to focus, and I'm not saying this in polemics against Tina Acketoft. We need to concentrate on what we do from now on. Sweden is strong, and I believe that the EU is still strong. I do not want to convey a picture that everything is peace and joy and that we agree on everything. It's not like that. We have different views on a number of issues. What I want to say is that this discussion is still conducted in a decent tone. It is not that the European Council is screaming at each other and people are running in and out and so on. It is a pragmatic tone and a willingness to find solutions, and it is a respect for each other's different decisions. However, it is not respect for statements that do not follow our values. I'll never do that. This is what I want to convey. Whether Slovakia will now fight this in court will be seen. We will see what happens and, if so, how it develops. We can only say that we stand up for a decision to be taken in the Council of Ministers by a qualified majority, although this is unusual in this type of matter. Maybe it's unique. But it was necessary to take a step forward. It's done, and I'm glad. But at the moment we are delighted with that decision, in order to have a chance to bring the countries that were opposed to it, it must be done in a tone that shows respect and will to take the matter forward. Can we influence it? Yeah, I mean, we can. Just a few months ago, I think few would have guessed that Poland and Spain, for example, would vote in favour of this. The Baltic countries also voted in favour. I think a few months ago few would have thought so. It is possible to gradually move the positions forward.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-85	Mr President, I would like to Yes, the last thing that abandons you is hope. I very much hope that we can move forward the positions around us at all. I think we all agree that increased humanitarian aid was welcome. We need to help more in the neighbourhood, and we need to get to grips with the crisis. We need to put out the fire in Syria, of course. Above all, we also need – as we now see very clearly – a common asylum and refugee policy in the European Union in order to be able to deal with this at all. This is something that Sweden has been pointing out for a long time. I would like to hear how the Prime Minister believes that the long-term discussion will run. Are we coming closer to a common refugee and asylum policy because people have now woken up and realised that this is the way we can solve it?
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-88	Mr President, I would like to Yes, I think we can see before us a discussion where there is more readiness for transparency and for us to actually take joint responsibility. When I speak to government representatives who are sceptical or directly opposed to a reception that we want, i.e. a compulsory redistribution, I hear that they are afraid of losing decision-making potential, but they also say that they want to contribute. It does not always make sense in practice when it comes to what proposals you are making, so to speak. There we are not yet. But there is a care about the European Union and a recognition that we belong together. We will, of course, have to develop together. I think that, without knowing, is the ultimate tick that will somehow lead us forward.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-90	Mr President, I would like to I fully share the Prime Minister's pride that Sweden also contributes to the everyday work so that UNHCR can have an organisation that can be scaled up when a crisis comes. I am also proud that we are now giving extra money at the request of the United Nations to food aid. I am pleased with the decisions that mean that we are now increasing support for those countries that are taking the greatest burden of the crisis in the region. It is important that we set up reception centres that can provide legal certainty for asylum reasons. But there are things that worry me, and in a crisis you can never get exactly what you want. We have just decided how to allocate 120 000. But we know that there will soon be half a million more people who need support and help and who are knocking on our door. How did the discussions about receiving more and the next steps go? How do the other countries view it? My second question is: how did we see the possibility of quickly turning refugees into citizens, so that they can find a place in their new country and quickly get in? Were those questions discussed? I was worried about Donald Tusk's statement about correcting the policy around open doors and open windows. I'm afraid if you close them, there'll be no ideas growing indoors. How was it received, and why did he say so? Then there is the idea of legal routes and quota refugees. Were other legal ways discussed? That is how women, children and people with special needs have a chance to enter Europe. Legal roads are the right method to help people, not to close doors and windows.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-95	Mr President, I would like to First, there are reception centres or so-called hotspots. We, from the Swedish side, are careful to emphasise that this must be done both effectively and legally. It's important. We must stand up for the very individual right to have his or her case tried, and that must be done legally. Then there is the next step in redeployment. That's exactly what I have in mind for the others, not least those who are negative. This won't go away once we've distributed 120 grand. The situation is still there. It'll be here for a long time. It is precisely for this reason that we need a compulsory redistributive mechanism. Even here, without sounding too naive and positive, I would say that there are others who now understand that this will not go away. There may have been some thinking: Yes, but as long as we do this now it's good. It is about the realization that the problems are enormous. You can read the reports from Jordan and Lebanon. In many cases they return from Jordan to Syria. You start looking for other ways, because conditions are so hopeless. It's worse for food and so on. This will still be here. That's why we need to work towards a mandatory system. As far as legal channels are concerned, I share that view. That is why Sweden proposed that we increase quota refugees to at least 100 000. I'd love to see more, but if we at least start there, we'll give more people legal ways. That is why I have also raised the discussion with UNHCR and Guterres about the fact that there might be other ways there too. Perhaps we can develop projects that make it even more likely that people with great need can come here.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-101	Mr President, I would like to My supplementary question is about the possibility for Sweden to participate in the peace process. We know that as long as there is war, more people will have to flee for their lives. Then I wonder: What is the next step in trying to build a more peaceful situation in Syria and in the immediate region? And what role can Sweden play? My second part of that part is addressed to the alliance parties: Who believes that membership of NATO would increase the chances for Sweden to participate as a peace broker and as a neutral party that everyone can trust and without prestige can participate and find solutions?
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-102	Mr President, I would like to Yes, we are pushing for this very issue, because we need to get the peace process going in some way. We have proposed this contact group. We have done this because Staffan de Mistura himself felt that it would be a good support for him in the work he does. I have said from this perspective that we can of course also think of other solutions. What is important is that we give UN support and that the EU appoints a special envoy for Syria to show that we want to focus. It may be a senior envoy, a woman or a man who has great confidence and a high reputation, who is allowed to pursue these issues. Sweden may well play a role there. I have put it that I think it is important that the USA and Russia take their responsibilities first. This applies, of course, to the five permanent ones, Saudi Arabia and Iran, but also to others, such as Turkey and Egypt, perhaps. I think that the UN should govern how such a group should be set up. But Sweden can certainly play a role based on the need and demand that exists. We'll be there and say, "We'd love to.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-105	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. I think what is important from the summit and the reporting is that this is leading the way in a better spirit of cooperation and the positive thing that Sweden and Germany are not alone. EU leaders have put the issue of refugees on their own agenda and on the table of the EU. It is important that we have come so far. In this way it is a positive development for Sweden, as I see it. The UN-led international effort that is being talked about, to end the war in Syria, is extremely welcome. But I do not think we should forget Afghanistan, Eritrea and other countries where people are still living under great oppression and where conflicts are still raging. Those countries must also be included. Then it is good to focus on helping not only within Europe but also outside. The billions to UN organisations on the ground are extremely welcome. When food rations are cut down, as we get reports, and people do not have the opportunity to work – so you do not get work permits in these neighbouring countries either for various reasons – it is of course extremely difficult to see any future and any opportunity to support your children with schooling and perhaps with ordinary necessities. At the same time, it is important that we ensure that the Schengen Agreement works so that we do not need to introduce national borders. However, humanitarian visas must be developed as an alternative to closing borders. How does the Prime Minister view the possibilities now? The Prime Minister was a little into it. Is there not, however, an opportunity to see humanitarian visas as a possible way forward as an alternative to the traffickers?
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-109	Mr President, I would like to I can only agree with what Mrs Pethrus has said about Syria, for example. Of course, we must not forget the other conflicts. That must never happen. The UN does not do so either, but here it is important to have that wide-angle. What we must now focus on, however, is to bring about something similar to a peace process. This war is going on and on and on, and we see the terrible consequences it has. It's a humanitarian disaster. It is important both that we maintain the external borders of Schengen and that we do not create borders within Schengen, for then Schengen is out. I think that is one of the reasons why we made some progress. There are many who see that if we were to get into that situation, yes, then we have a completely different Europe, a completely different and very weakened Europe. It will be a mental story that is very risky for the whole peace project that the European Union actually is. Finally, I think that this is a heavy argument for those who are against, because they too see that it would be something completely different, something that nobody wants. I therefore believe that this will help us to find a solution. So I do not want to be over-optimistic, but I see that possibility. Humanitarian visas, not least here at home, have been talking about. I can see that very few people are talking in this direction at the moment. We are talking about more legal ways, and we have said that we want to try out how it would be done. However, a solution must be found in the EU in that case. We cannot do it in such a way that there will be chaos in our missions around the world, but if something is to be done, it must be done together. I do not yet know what it will look like, and I can see that at the moment it is not the top of mind of the vast majority of Member States.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-115	Mr President, I would like to Let us hope that more and more people realise that this would be a better way for people not to travel through these smugglers and instead to get a humanitarian visa in an EU office. Our idea is that this should happen in an EU context and not just from a Swedish mission. A specific question: where is this billion being taken to UN organisations? Is it different countries that have shuffled money, is it from the aid budget or is it both? As far as the redistribution of refugees is concerned, many issues remain. What does the Prime Minister think is the next important step ahead of the October summit?
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-118	Mr President, I would like to Billions are assumed to be shared. That is clear from the statement. It is both EU common funds and resources from the Member States. I'll have to come back with the exact distribution between them. The Commission will work on this. As far as the redistribution is concerned, the 40 000 in the sharp decision taken in July have just been closed. It's supposed to work, and now the next one, that is, the 120,000. There it is that the 54 000 Hungary should have been offered remain, as Hungary said no. In this respect, it is essential, first and foremost, to make this distribution between Italy and Greece. There is also transparency that if countries report and say that they have a particularly stressed situation and need to be covered by this system, there is such transparency in the construction itself. That is not to say that this is happening, but it is such a thing that needs to be resolved. If I understood the question correctly, we are working towards a mandatory system. We have to do that. I think I can say that it will not be in place for the forthcoming summit, but now it is important to get these things in place that we have talked about today. That was the very purpose of the meeting: to start it and take care of it in October.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-121	Mr President, I would like to After all, the refugee crisis will last as long as the war continues, and it is therefore good that the Prime Minister focuses on the work of trying to get to grips with the core of the problem. The Prime Minister said that his main focus is that it is the UN that will lead the work to end the war in Syria. With all due respect, I would like to say that there is quite a lot of empty words. Everyone knows that Russia will veto all forms of international intervention. The Russian side has reinforced its military presence in Syria, and it will not release its support to the regime there. Possible peace talks could be possible between the Syrian regime and the moderate rebels, but the major problem in this context and the root of the large refugee flows we are now seeing from the Middle East are, after all, the Islamic state. Then I wonder: does the Prime Minister mean going to the negotiating table with the Islamic State? Is that the people you're supposed to negotiate peace with? Is that what Carl Schlyter and the Prime Minister are saying that Sweden should work for – that through the UN they are engaged in talks with the Islamic State? It is becoming increasingly clear that these are just empty words and platitudes. I am fully aware that there are no simple answers to the question, but it is quite naive what we are hearing from the Prime Minister and Carl Schlyter, that only we can bring about peace negotiations and this will work out.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-126	Mr President, I would like to The UN envoy to Syria, Staffan de Mistura, has stated that it would be a great support in his work if an international contact group could be set up. These are not empty words, and I think it sounds a bit boring and defaitistic to say that this will never be resolved. We're not naive. We understand very well the complexity of this conflict. But to conclude from there that nothing can be done is wrong. We have a moral obligation to do everything we can within the framework of the international community. Our primary organisation globally is the United Nations, and we will of course be very supportive of the work done by the United Nations. It is a rather hasty conclusion that someone is considering negotiating with IS. It is pure speculation that has no basis whatsoever for reality. We're talking about serious work to get to a position where you can at least start talking to each other. Staffan de Mistura has now started four working groups. There is another dialogue going on, and then the question for us is how we can best support that process. We cannot sit down and say that those are just empty words and that will never work. We have the moral obligation to do everything we can, and Sweden will do so. Then those sitting on the sidelines will have to say that it will never be possible to do so. But I intend to take it as a strong moral commitment to do what Sweden can.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-131	Mr President, I would like to The central question to overcome the war is about the Islamic state and its ravages. That is the ultimate reason why people are so desperate to flee the region, and the Islamic State will not be dealt with through negotiations. I am not trying in any way to suggest that there are simple answers and simple solutions. I believe that, in the end, an international military effort will be needed to combat the Islamic State. On the other hand, I am opposed to the rather simple and naive way in which we have been told by both the Green Party's Carl Schlyter and the Prime Minister that this will be resolved only Sweden is pressing a little more for the EU to bring about peace negotiations. It does not give a very credible impression.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-133	Before I give the Prime Minister the floor, I will say that it is the Prime Minister's report and not Carl Schlyter. It's important to remember.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-134	Mr President, I would like to At the moment when we need to come together for real to try to get something, I find it sad to try to ridicule this. No one has said that this is easy. It's extremely complicated, and it's powerful forces. It is a regime that terrorises its own population and, according to many, actually contributes most victims and most refugees. It is a terrible organization – IS, Daesh or whatever you choose to call it – that does not shrink from anything. We also have an opposition that is rather divided in Syria. It is therefore complex, and nobody has said that it is easy. That is why I expressed that the USA and Russia are probably the two absolutely most important players, for the reason that they can make a difference – along with the other five permanent and along with the regional big players. That is why we must give the UN the best support it can get to try to bring about something that can lead to peace and tolerable conditions for ordinary people.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-137	Mr President, I would like to A day like this I think we should be very proud to be Swedes. Not only have we managed to get together in Parliament, but we have also been able to help get Europe-wide around the fact that this is not just about one issue, namely the reception of asylum itself, but about much more. It is about supporting the countries that are close to Syria, and it is about how we will end this war in the long term. I think it is very good that we are actually having a conversation with the coordinator in Syria so that perhaps a solution can be found in the future. I am absolutely convinced that Russia will also be brought to bear on this. It was more of a comment. My question concerns what has been said about raising the border guard. How will this be done in order to safeguard the right of asylum so that there is no barbed wire in some countries while other countries have other methods? This is particularly true of those countries that do not have a land border but a water limit – where it is a bit difficult to set up barbed wire. How to guarantee the right of asylum with a system that also strengthens border guards?
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-139	Mr President, I would like to The border guard can of course have different conditions. The leaders of Malta also pointed out yesterday that there is little difference for Malta; that will be another matter. That is why it must be done on the basis of the different countries' circumstances. The point, however, is that we must have a common understanding of borders. We need to keep track of the external borders in order to be able to have free movement. Then I think it's right that we coordinate and say what the conditions are. It is important both to be able to deal with refugee cases legally and quickly and to stand up for the common rules that actually exist. It may mean different things in different countries depending on the situation we find ourselves in, but I believe that coordination is crucial. It is crucial that we have, among other things, an exchange of information that allows us to know how it works in different countries. If there is any country that needs extra support, we should be prepared to give it. This may be for personal support or, of course, for other support. So it cannot be said that only that solution exists, but it can be slightly different depending on the countries. But we must agree that we stand up for the external border, because then we can have freedom of movement.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-144	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-146	Mr President, I would like to On April 27, 2014, Stefan Löfven, then not yet Prime Minister: On Monday we received the answer here in this House when the Government of Löfven presented a budget bill that does not meet the unemployment target and which risks reducing employment in Sweden. Why did you lie about the jobs, Stefan Löfven?
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-149	Mr President, I would like to It is true that we have a very tough target to bring down unemployment. I refuse to accept that people go unemployed. Adult people should be at work. We have had a situation where unemployment increased during the previous government, that is a fact. Now we have turned that policy around. There is an end to tax cuts and cuts. Now it is offensive investment that applies. If Anna Kinberg Batra reads our financial plan, she can see that we estimate that in two years 150 000 new jobs will be created. That won't be enough. We have to do more. That's why we're clinging to that goal. We have our job agenda. There must be more investment. We must have a much more active industrial policy, and we must ensure that people can take the jobs that are emerging through skills development. Not reaching the target in a year is just proof that the target should not be too easy to achieve. It'll take some time. We should have reached that target by 2020.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-153	Your President! "In essence, it is quite simple, " said Stefan Löfven in this House in the party leader debate in June. 中 Jobs are not created by emptying unemployed people's wallets. Jobs are created when we fill corporate order books. ..................................................... But now both are hard hit by, for example, a policy where six out of ten Swedes get less left in their wallets. Order books are affected by increases in petrol and diesel taxes, more expensive electricity, more expensive employment, and I could continue with that list. What I'm wondering is not just if the Prime Minister has a goal, but what the way there looks like. How did the examination of these jobs take place, and what did the ministers and authorities say about the outcome? Stefan Löfven does not have a job agenda, but he has a very difficult agenda.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-157	Mr President, I would like to Yes, taking over after a government that could only lower taxes can be a little strenuous. I will tell Anna Kinberg Batra what is very important to the business community and what we need to focus on. One is to ensure that we have a supply of skills. We need to ensure that people are trained for the jobs that come out. That's why we've invested in a knowledge boost. The second is to ensure that we have an active industrial policy that develops the new goods and services to sell in an ever larger and increasingly integrated global economy. The third is to ensure that we have a long-term and broad agreement on the energy issue. The industry has been asking for this for a long time, and we are in the process of doing so. The fourth is to ensure that we have a good structured state venture capital so that we can support entrepreneurs because they are the ones who are going to develop the new products. It is these issues including the investment in infrastructure and the investment in housing that will create success for Sweden. Lowering the taxes was stillborn, as we have seen. We are now investing in order for Sweden to move forward.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-166	Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister! On Monday, the government presented its budget. Not surprisingly, we see the costs of mismanaged immigration policy running out. Now a total of SEK 170 billion is being allocated for the next budget period. This is also based on an out-of-date forecast from earlier this summer. In the last seven days, 7 221 people have applied for asylum in Sweden. So there are a thousand people every day. It will also reasonably entail higher costs. There's a big hole in Stefan Lövven's budget. We don't know how big that hole is, but we know it's big. My question to Stefan Löfven is, of course, how will this be financed? Now I am guessing that we are going to hear about the fact that all EU countries have to shoulder their responsibilities, that all municipalities have to shoulder their responsibilities and that this is a long-term profit. Apart from that, how is this to be financed? Who's gonna pay?
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-168	Mr President, I would like to It is a good rationalisation when the questioner also gives the answer. Unfortunately, he's wrong. It is important that we ensure that we take care of the people who come to Sweden. They must be able to seek asylum. It is a moral, decent commitment that the country makes. But it is clear that it is also important that all countries assume their responsibilities, and that is why the work is taking place out there, to ensure that all EU countries assume their responsibilities. That is why it is important that all Swedish municipalities assume their responsibilities. Of course, sharing responsibility will make it much easier. Not all the figures that the Swedish democrats throw themselves with usually do. I can only say that I have heard from the EU Council that the Swedish democrats think very well that we should have an asylum policy. So I do not understand how the Swedish Democrats will make their budget go together. Right in that hole, there's usually a lot of room.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-172	Mr President, I would like to I note that Stefan Löfven responded exactly as I predicted, and as I said, it was not unexpected. But he didn't answer my question. How will this be financed? Who's gonna pay? What and who will stand back? Stefan Löfven now told me here that we are throwing ourselves with figures that are not right. In fact, it is Stefan Lövven's budget figures that are not correct because they are based on a forecast that is now completely out of date. I'll ask my question again. Stefan Löfven, now that we receive the new forecast from the Migration Agency, when we now see what additional effects it will have on the Swedish economy, who will pay? What's going to stand back?
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-175	Mr President, I would like to We have just presented a budget that is funded crown for crown and that turns Sweden's development from tax cuts and cuts to Sweden's getting into work. There is no other way than that people are working for us to have sustainable development in the long term, where we can both have a well-being and take care of people on the run. If the Swedish Democrats read the budget, it is clear from this that we have financed just every single reform, and that is what the job agenda and investment are all about. It is that people come into education and that we have a business policy that applies. Then we can afford the welfare that we should have, and then we can also afford to show the solidarity that is needed for people who are fleeing. Sweden, all municipalities and all EU countries will do so. That is why I am working urgently in Europe to do so. We're gonna get through this. It becomes an effort when many people are forced to flee, yes. But we're gonna make it together.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-178	Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister! Decisions on what to do with Vattenfall's coal mines in Germany are the biggest climate decision that this government will take. It is perhaps the most important decision for the world's climate that you will make in your life, Stefan Löfven. Now the government wants to sell. We know a buyer will burn the coal. We know that it is completely unsustainable to the earth's climate. When asked about this by government representatives, they say that, because of the ownership directives, the government cannot say no to a sale. I question the accuracy of that. As late as last autumn, the government decided that Vattenfall would not be allowed to break the new coal mines on which you have an option. They went in and made a decision on a climate-based basis that had business consequences. Now it is clearly not possible to do the same. It makes no sense to me. This is particularly incomprehensible given that the Swedish National Audit Office points out that the government should control Vattenfall better. Why was it possible to make that decision last October, while today one cannot refuse a sale?
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-182	Mr President, I would like to The Government has taken a holistic approach to Vattenfall and given clear instructions that Vattenfall should be both a business and a leader in the transition to climate-friendly energy in accordance with the Riksdag's decision. It's Vattenfall's mission. Vattenfall handles this task best by ensuring that the board and its executive management comply with the directives given by the owners. It is a good order in private business, and it is a good order for state-owned companies. That is why this arrangement applies. Now Vattenfall has announced how they want to handle this process. Let's see where it goes. We do not know, but of course the Minister for Economic Affairs will follow it very closely and see which proposal comes from Vattenfall. Then we'll have to take a stand on that decision.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-185	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. I mean, it won't last. One cannot say one moment that we are telling Vattenfall not to open new mines because of the climate and say at the next moment that we must not hinder a sale with climate argumentation. You have to decide what you can do and what you can't do. This is particularly serious because the Swedish National Audit Office points out that the government should steer Vattenfall harder. They point out that the sale of coal mines does not mean anything positive for the climate, rather the opposite. Is it not, in fact, that the decision taken last year, not to open new mines, which were marketed as good for the climate, is now in danger of being decomposed in practice, as a buyer also has access to the options for new mines held by Vattenfall?
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-188	Mr President, I would like to Once again, we have ownership directives. We're in charge of Vattenfall. We have been clear about steering Vattenfall in an environmentally friendly direction. We have appointed two people on its board who have the skills needed for that. Vattenfall should be handled commercially, because we obviously want the maximum out of the company, but it should be done in as climate-friendly a way as possible. There may be some difference, Jonas Sjöstedt, between a production that has not yet begun and something that has already begun. One thing I do not think Sjöstedt would appreciate, namely if other countries came to Sweden and told us what to do with our assets, how to manage our energy policy. That is why I think it is good that Sweden is not in charge of Germany and their energy policy.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-191	Mr President, I would like to So came the week when the turnaround for Sweden would come. The budget was placed on Parliament's table. We saw an idealess government that presented a budget that is underfunded, and, which is really serious, you cannot manage the jobs. In a previous post Stefan Löfven tried to tell us what the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise wanted, what they needed. The problem for Stefan Löfven is that everyone who examines the government's employment policy says it does not work. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise criticises, Almega criticises, Nordea criticises, SEB criticises. Then Stefan Löfven can say it's a bit difficult, but we don't have to listen to them. Go to your own authorities, Prime Minister! The Institute of Economics criticises employment policy. Finansinspektionen does not believe that the government will be able to reach the target. The Arbetsförmedlingen was out the other day saying that the job policy that was being conducted is not working.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-195	Mr President, I would like to I note that Ullenhag has high expectations of our employment policy. It's probably because his own didn't work at all. They left behind a higher unemployment rate than when they took office. There must be something much more different. You can't believe that lowering taxes will make everything all right. That is why we are making the turn we are talking about. We are making a substantial investment in infrastructure, because both people and goods must be able to make their way in the country. We make a substantial investment in housing, because there are too many people who cannot move where the jobs are, and students do not find housing in places where they are going to study. We must have a business policy that assumes that Sweden can do well in a global economy. It requires innovation, it requires venture capital, it requires skills and it requires an export strategy. That's what we're going after. We have to have people who can take the jobs. One result of bourgeois policy is that we have almost 400 000 unemployed, while 80 000 jobs are not filled because companies do not find the right skills. That turn has to be done.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-199	Mr President, I would like to With all due respect, Prime Minister, leadership is about answering questions and taking responsibility. I don't think even the Prime Minister himself thinks he answered the question. Let's take it one more time. Can the Prime Minister give an example of an independent judge who believes in the government's employment policy?
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-201	Mr President, I would like to I'll start with youth unemployment contributions. It was clearly a major failure for the previous government. That's exactly where we're turning around. Youth unemployment contributions would be the solution to youth unemployment. It turned out that youth unemployment increased. It has cost SEK 110 billion in total, and unemployment has increased by 20,000 to 30,000 young people. It is a job policy that is completely unsuccessful because it means that young people do not get the education they need. Then it won't help to lower taxes. That's the turn we're going to do now. Read Västmanlands Läns Tidning om Madeleine, 24 år, who now gets the first trainee job. She goes from unemployment to work and education. She will strengthen her position in the labour market. It's the future.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-205	Mr President, I would like to The government declaration states that family policy is strengthened to give all children equally good chances of life. This is laudable, but when the government at the same time reduces the freedom of choice for families with children, it does not make sense. We Christian Democrats are convinced that neither the Prime Minister, with all due respect, nor any other government minister is most appropriate to decide what is best for each individual family. But the government obviously disagrees with that. I watched on TV this week where Minister Regnér said in some sofa show: We want to change people's lives. That is a remarkable statement, and I would like to ask the Prime Minister: how far is the Prime Minister prepared to go to change people's lives and to force the country's families with children into the same template?
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-207	Mr President, I would like to What is meant is that we want to fold another month of parental insurance to each parent. We do it because we want to change – yes, I want to change – not least women's opportunities in the labour market. We have a structural problem in our labour market and in society at all, where women are getting worse out. They have fewer opportunities for development – less wage development, less pensions. It can't be like that. We must seize the potential of all people. Everyone knows that a large part of the blame for this is the uneven withdrawal from parental insurance. Women are supposed to be more at home, and then employers invest more in men. We cannot have it that way, but we must have parental insurance that provides opportunities for both children and parents. It is basically a great reform, but it will also contribute to gender equality. I lead the world's first feminist government, and I am extremely proud of it. Then we will also make sure that we really fight for equality.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-210	Mr President, I would like to I would like to emphasise that equality is important. We Christian Democrats think so, if it needs to be said in this House. However, parental insurance is not primarily a tool for achieving certain labour market objectives. Parental insurance is available to give new parents the opportunity to be an active part of their children's lives for the first few months and years, to give them time with their parents. The government's increased quota seems to be a first step. An investigation will be set up to look further at the issue, as Regnér said tomorrow's couch, and the government declaration states that a modern parental insurance policy will be developed. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: how can it be modern to incite parents' own choices and decisions by stepping in with a clear ambition to change the lives of families with children when they themselves try to get their own everyday lives together? How can it be modern?
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-213	Mr President, I would like to I often hear KD talk about gender equality. But when something's to be done, KD isn't there. Then KD instead wants a custody allowance, which, as everyone knows, locks the women into the home. Yes, we want to make a difference, and it is about equality, about ensuring that men and women have the same opportunities in working life and in society. We're going to have parental insurance that gives the children the opportunity to spend time with both parents. I see in my own vicinity what an extremely good contact the child has with both parents when young parents share the parental insurance. I also see that these women are given the same opportunity to develop the labour market. Sweden must be characterised by an equal society in which men and women have the same opportunities. In this way, the reforms that give children and parents the opportunity to be together should also be designed to contribute to an equal working life.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-217	Mr President, I would like to The civil war in the Middle East means that we are in the midst of the worst refugee crisis in many years. People flee to save the lives of their families and to live in peace. My committee has recently been in Turkey, where 2 million people from Syria are waiting to flee to a safe country. In the EU, despite the obvious crisis, some Member States refuse to assume their joint and several responsibilities. A similar problem is also found here at home in Sweden. Some municipalities almost do not accept refugees at all. My municipality of residence Södertälje is one of the Swedish municipalities that have taken and continue to take a great responsibility in the Europe of the refugee crisis.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-220	Mr President, I would like to Work began almost the first day of government. We contacted Germany early on, for example, when Germany, like Sweden, takes a great responsibility for the reception of refugees. We will continue to do so. When I met Angela Merkel in Berlin in February, we raised this very issue. We need to get more people to take responsibility. Now we have taken two steps along the way. Decisions were taken in June and July to ensure that EU countries took greater responsibility for 40 000 by redeployment. Another 120 000 were taken this week. All countries are on that list, and it is important that all countries assume their responsibilities. We have taken substantial steps forward. It is a great success for humanity and a great success for Sweden and Germany. The same applies in Sweden. That is why we are preparing legislation to ensure that all municipalities assume their responsibilities. I think the principle is as simple here at home in Sweden as in the EU. Everyone's gonna take their responsibility. This also applies to relatively wealthy municipalities in Sweden.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-224	Mr President, I would like to Fifteen years ago, 191 of the world's countries committed themselves to setting targets for building a better world, the so-called Millennium Goals. The Millennium Development Goals have contributed to major progress, but major challenges remain. Now it is in the final phase of formulating new global development goals on sustainable development, which will apply until 2030. My question, to which I would like the Prime Minister to answer, is how the Prime Minister ensures that Sweden can take responsibility and shows the world what opportunities open up in the implementation of this agenda.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-226	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Eriksson's question is extremely important. We are now at a stage where there is a momentum for good global development. Despite all the crises we see – the crises in Syria and Yemen, the climate crisis and so on – there is still a momentum. As Jonas Eriksson pointed out, the Millennium Goals were important, because we could focus resources and coordinate in a completely different way. It was a success. The new objectives set are better of the nature that we now link sustainability objectives with development objectives. Environmental and climate issues go hand in hand with job and growth issues. In that way, we will have a completely different dynamic. It is important that Sweden takes precedence, just as in the process for these goals, where we had an active civil society that participated. Many have been involved in shaping these goals. Now we shall also get into that work once we have actually made the decisions. We will engage civil society. We will also take initiatives at the UN. We'll hear more about that later this week.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-230	Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister! The government has just presented a new budget, and the costs of sick leave will run smoothly. According to the government's own figures, the total cost increases during the term of office are SEK 47 billion. At the same time, the government has come to Parliament with a reform to abolish the longer time limit in health insurance. It is a proposal that the government's own authorities strongly warn against. Arbetsförmedlingen, Försäkringskassan and the Social Security Inspection – everyone says that this reform will increase sick leave and extend sick leave. But not only that – it will cost money too. More than SEK 1 billion each year this will cost. My question to the Prime Minister is: When sick leave increases so much and so quickly, do you think it is responsible to come to Parliament with a reform that you know in advance will increase sick leave even further?
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-233	Mr President, I would like to The increase in sick leave and sick leave costs takes place with the old government's rules. The large increase in the costs of sick leave began in 2010. That journey began the bourgeois government. These are dramatic increases. These are the forecasts that Johan Forssell sees. This government is going to do something real. We do not intend to reassure people and throw them into poverty; it does not make them healthier. We intend to ensure that the stops to be included in health insurance will lead to measures. This requires cooperation between the social partners, so that we have both preventive and rehabilitative work. This requires a completely different way of interacting with the health care system. It also requires more resources for Försäkringskassan. This is real. It does not help to lower taxes and throw people into poverty. It has to be done so that people actually get healthy.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-236	Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister! The Government's autumn budget proposes an increase in the ceiling for fees for services. Such a t could involve a cost of over $2,500 a year for the home - service user. Despite proposals for increased housing allowances and a promised tax reduction for pensioners, which I personally welcome, there are still many who are at risk of going back when the charges for municipal services are at risk of being increased next year. I am aware that such an increase is not mandatory, but since state subsidies in other areas are being reduced, it is difficult for municipalities to avoid if they do not want a reduction in their budget. The proposal strikes at the weak, especially against older women, who make up two thirds of those who currently use home care. It is the poor pensioners and those most in need of home care who are affected. How can the Prime Minister continue to support such an increase in fees, which is likely to affect the most vulnerable group of the elderly and the sick? You give with one hand and bring the other.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-239	Mr President, I would like to It is not true that this affects the most vulnerable. This is funding that needs to be made. We are returning to the same financing model as when the maximum ceiling was introduced. We can add up what happens next year and ignore the pensions. They will also be increased but are not decided by the government, but are in the pension system. We are reducing the pensioner's tax, which, for example, the Swedish Democrats voted against almost a year ago. We're really dealing with that. We'll raise the housing supplement. We make a big contribution to care for the elderly and provide people, which means that there will be more contacts between the elderly and those caring for them. We will ensure that those who work in the care of the elderly receive substantial competence development and continuous development, so that we can take care of the elderly in the best way possible. We'll bet 4 1⁄2 billion on care for the elderly. I'm very proud of that bet!
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-243	Mr President, I would like to The vast majority of us are appalled to see in our streets and squares desperate people who have no alternative but to come here to beg for their living. As you know, many of them are Roma and come from Romania, where they are discriminated against and marginalised. They are forced to humiliate themselves by begging because they have no other way out. Soon autumn will come – it may already be here – and then winter, when these people will have to endure more difficulties in rain and cold. We all realise that we cannot solve the problems of these fellows here by giving small sums in paper cups and that these people would be much better off in their own country if only they had the opportunity to create a life and a future there.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-245	Mr President, I would like to Unlike the previous government that barked at Romania, we also have demands for Romania. All EU Member States must take care of their citizens and are obliged to do so. That is what we are calling for in Romania. But let's do one more thing. We are signing an agreement with Romania where we are also using the EU's money available to discriminate groups, in this case the Roma, to get a real chance. It's just like Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson here says. The short-term gifts in the mug don't help. It can feel good at the moment. But that is not the success, it is education and jobs. Romania has now begun that work. We are engaged in a similar dialogue with Bulgaria, because it is the same type of concern there. Everyone is allowed to do as it pleases as a human being. It's up to everyone if you want to put a penny in that mug. From now on, I have chosen to make sure that we support the organisations that can make a difference down there in Romania. That is my answer to this. Alms isn't the answer.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-249	Mr President, I would like to For about 25 years we have now had free schools and a free choice in Sweden. It has meant transparency, freedom of choice and competition that have served many students very well. In these 25 years, we have also had a former Social Democratic government which has administered the system for 12 years. My question is very simple. Does the Prime Minister think that the free choice of schools helps to loosen up housing segregation or to cement and make it more difficult?
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-251	Mr President, I would like to It is probably different depending on which municipality you are in and where the schools are located. There is no clear answer to that. However, we have a problem in Swedish school. It is that inequality is far too great. In addition, inequality is increasing between schools. Inequality contributes to the drop in school results. Now we have had a number of years in Swedish school, far too many, where we fall. We fall most into the PISA results measured with regularity. We must reverse this trend. We will make sure that people can, of course, choose schools. But we have to make demands on the schools that they deliver. Schools and preschools must not be allowed to give children water and bread to make higher profits. That is completely out of the question. The tax money should go to what it is intended for. Children should receive a good education and come out into adulthood as strong and free individuals. We will also begin this turn in Sweden.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-255	Mr President, I would like to We're in a milk crisis, the worst in manna memory. Five dairy farmers quit every week. On Monday there was a great manifestation of several hundred dairy farmers here outside the Parliament House. My question to the Prime Minister is: what is the government going to do more than reduce diesel tax by 29 cents? It gives one cent per litre of milk. There is a proposal for a credit guarantee to which banks say no. What does the government intend to do? Action is now needed.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-257	Mr President, I would like to It is a serious problem with the dairy farmers. Besides, I love milk. Over 4,000 dairy businesses disappeared in 2006 – 2014. It is a serious development that we see, and it continues now. That is why Minister Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht has sat down together with the dairy farmers to see what can be done. It is with them that exactly the measures described by Magnus Oscarsson here came out. I hear the banks don't like this. But, of course, we must support the dairy farmers. It is not insignificant to do what we do with the diesel tax. It will reduce production costs by SEK 100 million. It's a good contribution. In addition, they also receive support for animal care on the basis of existing programmes. We will be following this issue very closely. Government Bucht does this in dialogue with the dairy farmers. We must, of course, ensure that we have good milk production in Sweden.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-261	Mr President, I would like to Soon it will be time for the climate negotiations in Paris. One of the greatest successes so far is the establishment of the Green Climate Fund aimed at achieving climate action in developing countries. The industrialised countries have pledged $100 billion to the fund by 2020. However, we know and have seen that so far the interest in providing that money has been quite cool from many countries. We know that it is we in the rich industrialised countries who account for the largest share of emissions now and also historically. We know that it is the poorest countries that will be hardest hit by climate change. In its latest budget, the Government has clearly demonstrated its ambition that Sweden should take the lead with the government delivering 500 million to international climate work. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he believes that the money that the government is now spending will lead to other countries also doing what they have promised.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-264	Mr President, I would like to First of all, this is the really big issue that we are addressing this year. There's nothing to choose from. The world and world leaders must ensure that we stay as far below two degrees of warming as it ever goes. We must be able to look the children and grandchildren in the eye and say: We did what was needed. Hence, Sweden's determination to show for itself that we can develop our society with prosperity and growth while reducing pollution. That is an example. But we also put the money into the Green Climate Fund and say to the developing countries that are affected and need support for this: we are there for you. In addition, we are conducting the dialogue with them. What can we do for you? That message is very clear. Those in greatest need should also be the first in line. We hope that we will also be the predecessors so that more countries will ensure that the necessary resources are provided.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-268	Mr President, I would like to My question to the Prime Minister concerns the second part of Sweden's new job agenda which the Prime Minister raised in the Government Declaration, i.e. an active business policy for more and growing companies. The reduced ROT deduction will have a negative impact on the number of jobs. It can already be seen that many orders for repair work are before the end of the year and that the order intake after the end of the year is smaller this year than before. Moreover, if there are young employees in their company who are subject to the reduced job tax deduction, their profitability and ability to employ are affected. In addition, many will suffer from increased taxes on petrol, which are hitting businesses outside the major cities. My question is: in what way should the small construction companies outside our big cities view government policy as job strengthening?
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-271	Mr President, I would like to Let's take the ROT deductions as an example. They've increased. The costs are soon up to 17 – 18 billion. They started at about $4 billion. The ROT deductions will still be in place. Some of that money we are now using to build new ones. Thankfully, carpenters, armers, electricians and painters are trained not only to rebuild, but also to build new ones. We take some of those resources and put them into new construction so that the construction sector still gets those resources. We make sure that the young people who try to move to Uppsala, for example, to study do not have to live in tents. They're having an apartment. We also ensure that older people have the opportunity to rent an apartment at a reasonable price. We need to build more and invest in construction so that the labour market works. It is investments for Sweden and good for Sweden. It will create jobs, and it will strengthen our competitiveness.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-276	Mr President, I would like to After this time in the House, we can see that there are those who do not distinguish between the working and the working of those who do not. This is the first budget to be presented that goes from consumption budget to investment. It is about investing in people's education in order for them to be able to take the job vacancies. It is investment in the conditions for companies with infrastructure. But it is also investments to make sure that we who are adults and going to work know that we have good care for the elderly and good care for our children. I come from a county called Norrbotten, which is also in need of housing construction. Housing is also needed in Gällivare, Kiruna and Piteå. There is something that is particularly interesting from our perspective as an export-dependent county and a county that also works with innovations so that we can develop the goods and industry that we already have. There is a particular interest when we are out presenting the budget of hearing what the Prime Minister is talking about. Where does the government see the new jobs emerging? What are the new export markets?
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-280	Mr President, I would like to Like Hannah Bergstedt, I can also say that there is a lack of housing outside Stockholm. Sometimes in the debate it sounds like it only benefits Stockholm if it is invested in housing construction. It's not like that. We have a housing shortage in over 180 municipalities, even up in Norrbotten. It is sometimes a bit difficult to say that there will be success in some sectors. But we can still see some that I think have a long life force. One such is life science. It is an incredible sector of the future – the combination of medical technology, medicines, healthcare and all of this. This will always be the case, and I think that Sweden can create an even stronger position in life science. Now we can rejoice that Astra Zeneca is also investing here. A completely different sector is the forest – the green gold. There are all over Sweden, and it can create jobs all over Sweden with new fuels, new materials and new chemicals that are environmentally friendly. These are two examples where I can see very great opportunities.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-283	Mr President, I would like to The Prime Minister's Deputy Prime Minister Åsa Romson has during the week commented on Vattenfall's possible sale of German lignite operations. Deputy Prime Minister Åsa Romson claims that the government has no way of influencing the sale or possibly stopping it, either through amended ownership directives or otherwise. My question to Prime Minister Stefan Löfven is: Does the Prime Minister share his Deputy Prime Minister's view that the government is totally powerless in the process now under way? Or does the Prime Minister have a different view of the government's possibilities? And if so, what possibilities does the Prime Minister consider the government to have?
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-285	Mr President, I would like to This is on the same theme as the previous issue of Vattenfall and lignite. We have ownership control of Vattenfall. We have parliamentary decisions that govern how this should work, and I think it is a good order that we rule with owner directives. Vattenfall should be commercially strong and efficient, but Vattenfall also has a mission to move towards renewable energy at the rate that the company can handle as quickly as possible. It shall be managed by its Governing Board and its management. Now we have a situation in which we have to deal with this in Germany. The Minister for Industry will, of course, follow this closely, and there will perhaps later be a proposal from Vattenfall's Board of Directors on just how to act in the deal. The company must be allowed to do that. We'll have to wait and see what the company intends to do. That's how you're supposed to run companies. I don't think it's a happy thing if the government or parliament are in and run our state companies in detail.
i-46ab8fd1f8d393f2-287	I would like to thank the Prime Minister and fellow Members. That concludes the Prime Minister's Question Time.
