i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-6	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! Torbjörn Björlund has asked me how I intend to act in order to maintain attention to the situation in Palestine and to counter the current developments that hinder a peaceful solution and a free Palestine. I share the questioner's concern. As I indicated in last week's interpellation debate, October and November were marked by violence in a way and with an intensity not seen for a decade in Israel and in the West Bank, including East Jerusalem, with a large number of killed and wounded. The situation is unsustainable. Violence must stop. The government's support for a two-state solution in the Middle East peace process is based on the goal that Israel and Palestine should be able to live side by side in peace and security. Israel's security, as well as our bilateral relationship with Israel, are fundamental elements of our commitment to the peace process. We strive from the Swedish side to be a friend of both Israel and Palestine, while being clear on issues where there is disagreement. The peace process has stagnated, and the parties are far apart. There is a lack of a political horizon on how to resolve the conflict. The development on the ground is going in the wrong direction. In Gaza, the humanitarian situation is acute after seven years of isolation, three wars and too slow reconstruction. At the current rate, it would take eight years to restore the infrastructure to the pre-war situation in 2014. In the West Bank, settlement policy continues, including demolishment and movement restrictions for Palestinians. For the first time in many years, Palestinian growth was negative in 2014. The Palestinian Authority is in a constant economic crisis with large budget deficits, about SEK 30 billion this year. The intra-Palestinian split continues. Sweden contributes through foreign policy and aid to strengthen moderate and constructive actors in Palestine, and thereby to counteract polarisation and radicalisation. The government is actively working in the EU, the UN and bilaterally in support of Palestine and to create better conditions for a results-oriented peace process. The occupation must be brought to an end so that Israel and Palestine can live side by side in peace and security. Within the EU, Sweden is the driving force for the Union to actively work towards a renewed peace process. Over the past year, the EU Foreign Minister's meeting has discussed the issue three times and adopted Council conclusions with clear messages to both parties. At the UN, Sweden is working towards a final status solution to the conflict. During the autumn, I took part in a debate on the Security Council and was invited to attend a quartet meeting with UN Secretary-General Ban Ki Moon, EU High Representative Federica Mogherini and US Secretary of State John Kerry. In the autumn, together with Jordan, I invited to a high-level meeting in New York on the funding of UNRWA, where the opportunity was given to inform about our extensive and increasing Swedish support for Palestinian refugees. Sweden is one of the largest donors to Palestine and is part of the political coordination of the Palestinian Authority, including the USA, Japan, Norway, the EU and the UN. In addition to this, I have recently clarified Sweden's positions in various media, including in an article in the Israeli newspaper Haaretz, where I explained how our policy for Palestine and that a two-state solution is also in Israel's interest. I also welcome debates in this House which deal with the situation on the ground and how different actors can best act to persuade the parties to show concrete commitment to the two-state solution they claim to want to see. Only then will we see a solution to the conflict and an end to the almost 50-year occupation of Palestine. It's urgent. An entire generation is losing hope of a brighter future.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-16	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking you for your reply. That is a pretty good answer, although I see the conflict in a completely different way from what emerged last week, but still rather held back. I understand that it does not really contain the facts that need to be presented. The conflict is about not being able to compare between two equal parties. The answer is good. It covers quite a lot of what I wanted to know and which I will then develop. That is what we need to do and highlight in order to find a peaceful and fair solution to the conflict. It is also a good thing that the debates dare to resist the aggressive rhetoric that comes above all from the Israelis. I followed the debate last week and saw it. There is in my eyes a rather difficult one-eyed and blinded attitude to what is right and wrong. I would like to highlight what is right and what is wrong in the conflict and what really causes the problems that exist today. You can look at the facts on the ground. I also describe in my interpellation all the things that are there. It is the wall that is constantly expanding and separating Palestinians from Palestinians on Palestinian soil. We have settlers' policy, which is perhaps the main reason why things are going to be the way they are today. If you look at what Israel says and what they do on the ground is that way and way other things. They are looking for a peaceful solution, but what they are doing on the ground is constantly expanding settlements. Today, there are over 500 000 settlers on occupied Palestinian land. Unless there is a problem in this and you want to ignore it, you are very single-eyed. When it comes to the wall, you can look at the map and see what the purpose is. It is not just to separate Palestinians from Palestinians and try to prevent Palestinians from entering Israel. It's about dividing up water resources. Water is an extremely important part down there. Everyone knows that. It is one of our natural prerequisites for living. We can see this in this context too. One must highlight the things that are done from that perspective. If you build water resources into Israelis and deny it to Palestinians, it will of course have an impact on how you react as a Palestinian. There are several things in this. It's housebreaking. You drive out Palestinians. It is a rather obvious apartheid policy which treats Palestinians differently from Israelis and which today builds some kind of South African bantustans into the West Bank. In addition, the situation in Gaza, on which the Minister for Foreign Affairs was also involved, is added. There you lock in, block and let neither in nor out anything other than what is controlled by Israel. It creates the situation. I've been into it a lot before. Today, Gaza is enough to designate as the world's largest outdoor prison. It creates a situation and a frustration that causes outbreaks of violence. It is not that one can at all excuse something that has to do with violence on either side. Neither rockets nor stabbing can be excused or in any way defended. On the other hand, the picture must be seen: What is the cause and effect? In my eyes, Israel is causing what is coming back today. It is they themselves who are pushing the Palestinians so much that they feel compelled to fight back. Somehow Israel creates its own opposition. It is a rather irrational and illogical way of thinking if you want a peace process and a peaceful solution where there are two states next to each other, if that is possible. I might come back to that later in the next post.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-29	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for your comment. Let me first stress the importance that the government attaches to peace and security in Israel and Palestine. The aim is for the two countries to be able to live side by side within mutually recognised borders with the 1967 borders as a starting point and with Jerusalem as the capital of two states where possible land changes are only accepted if the partners have negotiated it. The peace negotiations have now stalled, and the situation on the ground is so serious that the possibility of achieving a two-state solution is about to fail. Everyone should know by now that there is no military solution to the conflict. It was against this background that Sweden chose last year to recognise Palestine. Less unequal parties are needed to achieve results. The recognition of Palestine was a not insignificant contribution to reducing this imbalance. The confession also gives hope. 20-year-old Palestinians have experienced how most of it has become worse. At the same time, the lives of Israeli young people have been marked by fear and fear of terrorist attacks. In both countries, resignation and radicalisation are increasing. Young people must be given a glimmer of hope. The situation is extremely difficult. U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said the other day: And the fact is that current trends include violence, setment activity, demolitions, are empire the viability of a two-state solution. And that trend has to be revised in order to prevent this untenable one-state reality from taking hold. I can 中 t stress this enough. ..................................................... The Deputy Secretary-General of the United Nations has also pointed out at the end of November this very serious situation, where we see settlements and other violence related to this – demolishments and so on. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Sweden's recognition of Palestine was historic, and it makes a difference. Sweden will continue to engage in peace and security in Israel and Palestine. In the discussion in the EU circle, Sweden belongs to the Member States that are pushing for an active and clear EU policy so that we have a result-oriented peace process. Sweden's voice is well respected. The recognition of Palestine has given weight to Sweden's vote on these issues. Of course, we are also active in the UN for peace and security. Earlier last autumn, the Security Council held an open debate in which I pointed out precisely that I should not lose sight of the objective we have: a negotiated two-state solution and an end to the occupation in which Israel and Palestine can live side by side. Mr President, I would like to I can guarantee Mr Björlund that I will continue to act to draw the attention of Sweden, the European Union and the United Nations to the situation in Israel and Palestine. Both countries have a natural right to exist so that the inhabitants can live, develop and feel good within safe and recognised borders.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-38	Mr President, I would like to I have some specific questions about this. When you read the interpellation answer you can see that Sweden works in the EU and via the UN. Is it possible, then, to lift the things that are relevant? For example, there is somewhere in the EU where a decision is being made on the labelling of settlers' products, and that is probably happening now. We must give people who buy things from Israel a chance to also opt out of things. I think that is an extremely important thing, because it is some that are a violation of international law. We know that, and it could be one of those things. That is why I think that the process in Europe is quite complex and rather difficult. Unfortunately, it does not always go in the right direction either. You accept Israel as a trading partner and even benefit them sometimes, and so you talk about marking things up and so on. So there will be some kind of counter-productivity in the EU. I understand that there is a problem in this, because not everyone agrees on how to do it. I think this is something you really should push for. If Europe is to be a force in the process, it must be clear which causes the problems, and it is not primarily the Palestinians. It is Israel's unjust policy that is the basis for this. With regard, for example, to the discussion about Israel's right to defend itself, this is self-evident. However, it is rare to talk about the right of Palestinians to defend themselves. Under international law, one who has occupied people can defend oneself against an occupier. The things that Israel constantly violates when it comes to international law and international law are rarely highlighted in the debate. I think that is the problem when it comes to responding to the rather aggressive Israeli criticism of the Foreign Minister in particular, who, as I know, has never said anything other than what is really right. That support should be felt by the Minister; at least I think it is a clear difference from the former Government's Foreign Minister, who was extremely unclear on this point. I think this is good. The recognition of Palestine as a state is an extremely important mark, and we must be able to follow it up with the other things that hinder a just peace. It is not just a question of having a peace-making process; it must be a just peace. This means that the demand for a two-state solution, which many see as far away today, includes that it should be the 1967 borders and that one should have the right to form a Palestinian state with its own conditions. This also means, for example, that Israel can be required to stand for their crimes. I believe that Israel has violated international law as well as human rights and international law. Israel must be responsible for this, perhaps even financially. One possible scenario is that Israel leaves all settlements and, as compensation, gives them to the Palestinians in a two-state solution. That would be a pretty good compensation, I think. Then you get some kind of dignity back for the Palestinians. It is precisely this right to defend oneself that is difficult to do. Some believe that it is right to respond to Israeli attacks in Gaza with rockets. I don't think so, and neither do the others. But it's really about seeing who does the most, who does the most wrong things and where the reason is that it's going to be like this. I think it is extremely important to highlight this both with regard to the UN and with regard to the European Union. Israel is one of the countries that has by far the most UN resolutions against them in terms of human rights violations and international law precisely because of what they are doing to the Palestinians in Palestine. We must also highlight this in the debate as a resistance to the rather hateful and aggressive – at least I would like to point out – lobbying and rhetoric, which exist, above all, from Israel and Israel's highest representatives. This is not just the only part of Israel's policy. There are others in Israel who support a peace process. I think that this can also be highlighted, and I will come back to that.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-48	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! In response to the question of origin labelling, I would first of all like to say that the Commission has recently presented guidelines for this. It is then up to each of the Member States to follow up on this. Origin marking already exists in some EU countries. The Commission has now presented a proposal on how this can be harmonised and become similar in the EU Member States. It is also something for us to follow up eventually. In a situation where violence and hopelessness are increasing and rhetoric is sharpened, it is even more important to safeguard dialogue and diplomacy as our main tools. The situation in the Middle East is difficult enough without having to be burdened with misunderstandings about anyone's intentions. It is also unfortunate when strong reactions are made on incorrect grounds. The government fully rejects violence against civilians. All acts of terrorism are reprehensible and must be condemned by everyone. We are seeking good relations with both Israel and Palestine. It includes our concern to have a respectful dialogue and to be able to deepen and develop relations with Israel. Again, support for a two-state solution is based on the goal that Israel and Palestine should be able to live side by side in peace and security. Israel's security, as well as our bilateral relationship with Israel, are fundamental elements of our commitment to the peace process. We strive to be a friend of both Israel and Palestine, while being clear on issues where there is disagreement. We appreciate the cooperation we have with Israel in many areas. As everyone knows, Israel is one of our main trading partners in that part of the world. There's a lot we can learn from each other. I therefore object to any attempt to paint Sweden, our government or myself as Israel's enemies. We're not, on the contrary. Developing and deepening relations with one country does not mean that we distance ourselves from the other. I would like to repeat that Sweden is a friend of Israel, just as we are a friend of Palestine. Both countries have a natural right to exist, as Björlund says, and to live, develop and feel good within safe and recognised borders. The only way to achieve this goal of a two-state solution is through a peace process. In the long run, it benefits both countries, and that is something that we, as friends of both countries, are extremely concerned about.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-55	Mr President, I would like to I think the reasoning is quite logical. But they are also a little too weak when you think about the climate of debate today and there is some kind of dialogue without any scruples whatsoever. Hope, I think, is about the development that exists inside Israel. We know that almost half a million Palestinians live in Israel today. Many of them are Israeli citizens. About 200,000 of them live in tents. So they do not have the right to build on their own land in Israel. Of course, this is being noted inside Israel as well. Although much of the Israelis today are very hateful towards Palestinians and have a strange view of them, there is some understanding. Yesterday I read an article from Haaretz where a journalist, who has previously been proisraelic, writes: We actually have an apartheid policy in Israel, just admit it. If that person makes such a turn, more will. There are numerous testimonies from Israeli soldiers and officers who have changed sides, because they have seen how badly they treat Palestinians. This needs to be lifted up in order to get the right picture of what we have to consider. You can't chicken out. It is clear that we should be positive and be friends with both Israel and Palestine, but the facts must be drawn: who is creating the problems? If you chicken out there and do not get the facts out, it will also be problematic to get the solution. We know that the solution must come from the fact that Israel recognises that they are doing wrong. All the facts that emerge and are highlighted in the UN resolution following the UN resolution must be acknowledged. We may have a chance of getting a two-state solution and not a one-state solution, which seems to be on the way, by starting to rebel internally in Israel against this picture and against its own government that runs this line quite hard. I really want to show support to the Foreign Minister.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-60	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the interpeller for this debate. It is essential that the outside world continues to pay attention and engage in peace and security in Israel and Palestine. We have facts, I think. We are friends of peace first and foremost. We have to be. We must also be friends of the hope of young people, who see that the situation is now impossible, both in Israel and Palestine. The absence of hope is one of the greatest challenges we face now. I do not think it is too late for deescalation and peace in the region. We must create the conditions for a result-oriented peace process, which includes confidence-building measures such as a freeze on settlement building. It is time to implement the agreements that have been reached between Palestine and Israel. It is time to break Gaza's isolation and for all parts of Palestine to cooperate. It is time to remove the obstacles to economic development throughout Palestine, including area C and Gaza. It is time for international commitments with clear parameters and a realistic timeframe for negotiations and an end to occupation. It is time for an end to violence. We should not lose sight of the main objective: a negotiated two-state solution and an end to the occupation where Israel and Palestine can live side by side in peace and security. Thank you for a good debate! I would like to wish the House a pleasant weekend.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-66	Mr President, I would like to Johan Forssell has asked me how I and the government are in favour of the Moderates' proposal that people arriving in Sweden from another EU country without having been registered on the road through the EU should be able to be rejected at the border without a Swedish examination of an asylum application. Right now, the most difficult refugee situation is taking place in modern times. After the summer, the number of refugees seeking asylum in Sweden has increased sharply, and only in the last two months have 80 000 people applied for asylum in Sweden. This poses huge challenges for our society. Many socially important activities are under strain or face great trials. Many municipalities are also struggling to cope with the large number of people who come and who have different needs for action and support. The Government has therefore proposed a series of measures to significantly reduce the number of people applying for asylum and being granted a residence permit in Sweden. The intention is to adapt asylum rules to a minimum level in the EU for a period of time in order for more people to choose to apply for asylum in other EU countries. More countries in the EU need to take responsibility for the situation that has arisen. The measures proposed by the government also include the introduction of ID controls on transport by bus, train or passenger ship to Sweden. That measure, together with the temporary reintroduction of border control at internal borders, is considered to provide a better overview of who actually comes to Sweden and what their intentions are and to reduce the risk of public order and internal security being affected by the large migratory flows. In this way, the authorities will be better placed to maintain order and security, and the municipalities will be given better planning conditions to deal with the reception of refugees. The measures proposed by the government are necessary in the emergency situation, but they are not in themselves a long-term way forward. The refugee situation needs to be dealt with jointly within the EU. The government will therefore continue to push for a system in which all countries take joint responsibility for the reception of refugees, without compromising the individual examination of asylum. The moderate proposal, to which Johan Forssell refers, raises many questions. At the same time, it is our overall view that we have taken steps that will lead to a significant reduction in the search pressure and that other EU countries will have to take greater responsibility. The government continues to follow developments in the matter.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-72	Mr President, the Government and everyone listening to this discussion in the gallery or perhaps at home in front of the television set! This is a burning question. It is not possible to have an election debate now without the issues of migration and integration, or perhaps in short the issue of immigration, emerging. I think politicians in different parties in all parts of Sweden meet that reality. We have a situation in Sweden that has to be described as unsustainable. This is almost a situation that is becoming increasingly acute. It may not be urgent everywhere in the country, but in striking numbers of locations we are now receiving reports that important social functions no longer work in the short term. It is of course a challenge and a problem here and now. The challenge ahead is probably even greater and concerns the issues of integration, how people can get into Swedish society, manage to establish themselves in the labour market, find a place to live and become part of the Sweden that we have and that we want to develop in the future. In the last two months, Sweden has received about 80 000 asylum seekers. There are as many as in the whole of 2014. We all know the background to that. We have a world on fire with terrible conflicts in Syria and elsewhere in the world. Mr President, I would like to This European solution, which many have spoken out for, which is a central solution for the EU to find a way of replacing the whole Dublin regulation with a system of mandatory quotas, is in itself a sympathetic solution and something that we have supported. But it is also a long way forward to get the system in place so that it works the way we want it to. It is important to remember one thing, and that is that the problem in this context is not really the number of people fleeing to Europe, because Europe is capable of doing so, but rather the exceptional imbalance that exists between the EU Member States. If everyone in the EU-28 took their share of the responsibility, Europe would be able to do this, I think. But that is not the case today. A few countries, not least Sweden, which has taken by far the greatest responsibility per capita, must take not only their own share of the responsibility but also that which other Member States are unable or unwilling to take today. We have long pointed out the need for harmonisation. In an acute situation, it is unsustainable in the long run that Sweden has rules that strongly deviate from the norm in the rest of the EU. We see the result of that now, an acute crisis. We have been criticised by representatives of the government parties for a long time. Now there is a new attitude. It came late. Lateness has been a problem for Sweden. Nevertheless, it is positive that we have a consensus on this today. The big question is whether the proposals now presented by the government will be sufficient to reduce the search pressure to 1 000 or perhaps 2 000 people a week. I'm skeptical about that. In view of the ambitious objective set by the government, my question is: if what the government has done is not enough, will it be prepared to listen to the Moderates' proposal for a refugee break?
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-82	Mr President, I would like to I do not think that Johan Forssell and I are very far apart when it comes to the picture of what the situation is and what history has looked like. Sweden is currently making an enormous effort. So far this year, more than 150 000 people have applied for asylum in our country. As I mentioned earlier, 80 000 have arrived in just two months. It's not just the highest number ever. It's twice as high as the last highest annual figure that was around 80,000 in a year. Of those who have arrived, over 30,000 are unaccompanied children. During the autumn we had periods when 100 school classes a week arrived in Sweden – 100 school classes a week. It says a little about what a huge task Swedish society has had to handle during the autumn. This applies, of course, to the Migration Agency, which has had an enormous logistical challenge, the municipalities and tens of thousands of volunteers. I am very proud that we have managed this autumn. I do not see that any other country in Europe has done more than Sweden to cope with the refugee situation. But although Sweden can do a lot and has done a lot, more than anyone else, we are in such a position that we cannot do everything. Sweden also has a limit. As far as developments are concerned, we would not be able to deal with the same picture by spring. We must try to bring down the number of people who go to Sweden. There are more countries in the EU to seek asylum in. That is why other EU countries should also take greater responsibility. As Johan Forssell has said, our systems are very strained. We can no longer guarantee accommodation. We have had situations where people had to sleep on cardboard boxes after arriving in Sweden. We see municipalities reporting themselves according to lex Sarah. We're seeing an emergency today. But we also see a major challenge in the longer term. We have about 170 000 people in the asylum system right now. We need to focus on being able to take responsibility for them. Then the number of people coming to Sweden cannot be 7 000, 8 000, 9 000, perhaps up to 10 000 a week. We have had to take two measures. One is the ID checks on shipments between Denmark and Sweden. We have put forward a bill, and I see that there will be broad support in the Riksdag for it, including from the Moderates. I welcome that. The second measure is to amend Swedish legislation temporarily in order to bring it down to the EU minimum level. I see that there is broad support in Parliament for this too. Of course, I welcome that too. Johan Forssell and the Moderates want to go further. They want to close the border completely. The government's assessment is that the measures we are now taking will suffice. We see a risk that what the Moderates and Johan Forssell are proposing would conflict with EU law, the Asylum Procedure Directive. That is why we are not prepared to go that way. So there we are. We believe that these measures will suffice. I want to make a note. The opposition divides itself on different lines. The Moderates want to go further. They've gone from open hearts to closed borders. The Center's reasoning is exactly the opposite. Rather, they want to open the borders but then have a lower quality of reception. My question to Johan Forssell is: What does a bourgeois refugee policy really look like nowadays?
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-92	Mr President, I would like to I don't know if I thanked you for the answer. At least I want to do that now. As the Government says, we now have an acute crisis. I'm sorry we're here. I don't think we had to end up here. For years we have pointed out that Sweden needs a change in migration policy, that we need to harmonise some of our rules with the rest of the world. We were criticised for this by representatives of the government parties. Our proposals were described as unrealistic, inhumane and so on. I really appreciate the government having reconsidered. However, it is regrettable that we should have to be in the midst of an acute crisis in order for representatives of the government parties to realise that. It would have been good if we had been able to bring about the changes, not least sharper temporary residence permits, much earlier, before the crisis became acute. The government says the Moderates want to close the border. Then I'm not sure if Morgan Johansson is familiar with what we're proposing. We want a temporary break. We have an emergency now. There is talk of waiting times at the Migration Agency for up to two years. We believe that the temporary break is necessary until the systems are able to cope with the challenges they face, until we get things right, until we can offer people who come here a roof over their heads from day one. Of course, we want Sweden to receive asylum seekers as well. Mr President, I would like to The Dublin system is not working today. The principle of the first country of asylum is beaten to pieces. You don't register in the first country you come to. This is often not done in the second or third countries either. The Migration Board has itself stated that the Dublin Regulation cannot be enforced today. The only reasonable thing in the long term is to have a common asylum and migration policy. But we do not think that the way to do this is through Sweden's sole enforcement of the Dublin Regulation when no one else does, in which case the effect of it should have been seen by now. Sweden has tried to fulfil its commitments at the longest. But the effect has now become so burdensome that it is no longer possible. Our proposal means that anyone who comes to Sweden from another safe EU country without having first, as the regulations say, registered there should be refused entry and return and register. It is important to point out that even if the registration takes place elsewhere, Sweden may still be responsible for the examination. There can therefore still be a question of asylum being granted here in the country. I would also like to point out that, in addition to the Dublin Regulation, there are other rules, not least in the EU's Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. There is a specific rule on provisional measures in the event of extreme flows of refugees, but there is also a general rule that states that in extreme situations the Member State may have the right to deviate when law and order are at risk. There are also some principles of international law that we believe support this. I usually have as a principle that one should hope for the best in politics, but one should also prepare for something else. In view of the objective set by the government, I have to repeat the question: if you fail to achieve the goal, are you prepared to look at the Moderates' proposals? Or what do you suggest instead?
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-102	Mr President, I would like to We are convinced that the measures we are now proposing will have an impact, so that we will have a long-term sustainable situation. That is why we are not prepared to examine other proposals at this stage. This is what we are going to do. I have also pointed out the risk that what Johan Forssell is proposing might conflict with EU law. It is the Dublin Regulation, but above all the Asylum Procedure Directive, where it is the country to which it comes that will investigate which country is the first country of asylum. That is what creates these legal problems. We can, of course, discuss how early you should intervene, what you should have done earlier and so on. However, I just want to say that I am not ashamed for a moment because what Sweden has done during this autumn or this year. On the contrary, I am extremely proud that we have been able to accommodate more than 150 000 people and provide protection from war, persecution and oppression to those who have their asylum application granted. It is an incredible effort that Sweden has made. Johan Forssell said that Sweden has tried to fulfil its commitments at the longest, and that is exactly how I think a responsible country should act. A responsible country should at the longest try to fulfil its commitments and do it as well as you can. I can only say that there is no country in Europe that has done something similar to what Sweden has now done. At the same time, and there we also agree, a country or a few countries cannot do everything; they must try to share responsibility. During the autumn we have had a situation of almost 10 000 a week when it has been at its highest. As far as the unaccompanied children are concerned, as I have said, 100 school classes have arrived for some weeks. At the end of the day, a limit is reached, and Sweden also has such a capacity limit. I am absolutely convinced that we will be able to cope with this crisis. If we bring down the number that is now coming to more reasonable levels, we will be able to cope with the approximately 170 000 that we have in the asylum system now. Of course, it's about doing a lot of things. It's about building houses. It's about building schools. It is about improving the labour market. It's about going in early with Swedish education. I see, just to mention one figure, that so far this autumn the study associations have switched up their Swedish education for asylum seekers so that they will teach over 50 000 people this autumn. Before the end of the year, they will teach nearly 80 000 asylum seekers in Swedish, they believe – a direct effect of the measures taken by the government. I am, of course, also pleased with the support that seems to exist in the Riksdag for the measures that the government is now taking, both in terms of identity checks and the foreigner's legislation. At the same time, however, I must say that I see how the political landscape is being fragmented. I asked Johan Forssell a question in my opening speech, because I see how the bourgeoisie now has completely different views. The Centers go in one direction and say that we should open the boundaries but have a lower quality of reception. They say that we should not guarantee so much, but try to fend for ourselves to get a job and a place to live. The risk with the neoliberal model is that people end up in a situation where they get to work for 10 SEK an hour and live in a basement. Then there is the Moderate model of closing the border on asylum seekers. That's what it's all about. Then I ask myself: What does a bourgeois refugee policy look like?
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-111	Mr President, I would like to I am actually a little surprised to hear Morgan Johansson talking about fragmentation on these issues. It is quite true, in itself, that we are four alliance parties that make different assessments. But it is also true that we are not in a position of government today, but we are now allowing ourselves to make different assessments on the basis of our different objectives, and I think that in many ways we share a common picture. However, one thing separates us from the government, and that is when we make an agreement, we stand up for it and defend it. You don't have to, as in the case of the Red Green Government, see a government party first agree to something and then completely disassociate itself from it and even call the proposals bullshit and not defend them at all. It is a very strange way of acting in a government position and hardly taking responsibility for Sweden in this situation. Morgan Johansson says that the Moderates' proposal raises questions. That, of course, is the case. There are things here that we need to look at more. At the same time, I think it has been clear to everyone who has followed the debate in these weeks that the government's policy also raises many questions, not least about identity checks. Even the bridge closure has raised a great many questions, so it cannot in itself be an argument for saying no to anything. The government would then have little policy in this area. The Government reiterates that the proposed measures will have an impact. That's where I agree. I think so, too. But the core question in the interpellation is: What if it does not have enough effect? I ask that question in the light of the fact that the government itself has identified what the objective is. The search pressure should be reduced to between 1 000 and 2 000 people a week. It is clear that it would be strange to set a target and then not be prepared to take further action to achieve that goal if necessary. I would therefore like to repeat the question: if the objective cannot be achieved, what will the government do?
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-117	Mr President, I would like to Here stands Johan Forssell and says that unlike the government, the bourgeois keep their agreements. But at the beginning of autumn you ran away from the most important agreement that you signed, the one that was called the December agreement. You had signed that you would keep this, and so it only took one day to make this agreement. That's history now. I'm not gonna bury myself in it or moralize it. I am simply saying that when I hear such a phrase in an interpellation debate, I cannot help but point it out. Let's go back. Let us strike a line on it and just say: let us try to keep our deals now! It's about the bourgeoisie. Let us try to find such a situation where we can do this. We have just reached an agreement on migration policy, and I assume that everyone behind it will also stick to it. Johan Forssell then says that the Moderates are not in government, so they do not have to answer questions about how the Alliance should behave. However, I believe that the voters will be asking that question in due course. They will ask the question: what exactly is an alliance policy in this regard? If they do not get a satisfactory answer to this, I think it is a problem for you, and that is why I ask the question. We are convinced that the measures we are now taking will have an effect, and I am not prepared to discuss any other measures until we have seen these measures in force. We can already see that the number of applicants to Sweden has decreased during the autumn. In the spring, we will see if that development will stand.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-122	Mr President, I would like to Ulf Berg has asked why I choose to push the issue of review of decisions on protection and licence hunting through a consultation meeting at the beginning of November, even though the Supreme Administrative Court has not decided the issue. He has also asked me how I intend to ensure that protection hunting can be pursued quickly, without getting caught in legal proceedings, in order to thereby preserve its functionality. In a further interpellation, Ulf Berg has asked the Minister for Climate and Environment how she intends to ensure that the work of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and other authorities regarding guidance on the hunting of wolves is in line with Parliament's decision. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellationes. Since the two amendments deal in part with the same question, I am answering them in a context. I will begin by responding to the interpellation on the review of decisions on the pursuit of wolf. According to the Hunting Regulation, the County Administrative Board's decision to protect and license hunting for large predators can only be appealed to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. They must therefore not come before a court of law. It is disputed whether the appeal ban in the Hunting Regulation is compatible with EU law. The Supreme Administrative Court is now examining whether a decision by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency regarding the hunting of wolves can be brought before a court, even though it cannot be appealed under the Hunting Regulation. In addition, the European Commission has launched a so-called infringement case against Sweden on this issue. The Government is closely following developments in case law. As the government is keen to comply with EU law, the government last spring commissioned an investigator to propose a transparent and legally secure process for the review of county administrative decisions on the pursuit of large predators that are compatible with EU law and other international commitments. This, of course, has nothing to do with the government trying to influence the Supreme Administrative Court in its judgment. Such action would not be in line with the form of government. The investigation concludes that the appeal ban is not consistent with fundamental principles of effective national remedies and the principle of the effectiveness of EU law. Furthermore, according to the investigation, the prohibition may also be contrary to the principle of equivalence. It is true that the memorandum that was the result of the investigation was sent for consultation for a short time. Since the hunting period for the hunting of wolves is regulated in such a way that decisions may only apply to the period from 2 January to 15 February, a short period of referral was necessary if the rules of the hunting regulation were to be changed in good time before the next licence hunt. The possibility of replying in writing was also supplemented by a consultation meeting with the possibility for interested parties to make oral comments. The Government is now preparing the question of how to ensure that the review process of county administrative decisions on hunting for large predators is compatible with EU law. As regards the question of ensuring that protection hunting can be carried out within the required timeframe, without getting caught in legal proceedings, the investigation carried out shows that cases decided in the administrative court have been dealt with very quickly. There is a readiness within the Court of Justice to take decisions in priority cases as a matter of urgency. The court's experience of protection hunting is that decisions on inhibition issues are made within one or a few days and that the cases are then settled without delay. Let me now respond to Ulf Berg's second interpellation, about how the government intends to ensure that the government's guidance on the hunting of wolves is in line with Parliament's decision, by referring to the bill A sustainable predatory policy (prop. 2012/ 13:191). The bill shows that the overall and long-term goal of predator policy is that wolves, bears, wolverines, lynx and royal eagles in Sweden should achieve and maintain favourable conservation status under the Species and Habitats Directive, while not significantly hindering domestic animal husbandry and taking socio-economic considerations into account. In addition, for the relevant predator strains, the proposal contains more detailed targets for, inter alia, favourable conservation status reference values in terms of population size and range. On the basis of the current scientific evidence, the Swedish Parliament decided in December 2013 to support the Government's proposal for new targets for predatory policy. This is the starting point for government policy. As a result of the proposal referred to by Ulf Berg, the previous government decided to amend the hunting regulation so that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency had an increased opportunity to delegate the right to the county administrative boards to decide on the licensing of large predators. As a support in the work of county administrative boards, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency can provide guidance. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's guidance on the licensing hunt for wolf 2016 indicates certain data that may be relevant in the county administrative boards' assessment of the possibility of a licence hunt for wolf 2016. Reference is made, among other things, to the result of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's government commission on favourable conservation status for wolf. Following a new and broadened scientific assessment of the status of the wolf strain in Sweden, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has found that the wolf in Sweden currently has favourable conservation status. Furthermore, the guidance provides a discussion of what is limited in terms of the number of individuals who are being driven in the hunting of wolves. My speaking time is up, so I will have to come back to the end of my long answer.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-133	Mr President, I would like to I can be of the opinion that these matters have a slightly different meaning. But let's not get over it. I think we can find out that we have different opinions anyway. Let me begin with the review of decisions on protection and licensing. When you see the rural minister's answer, it is quite clear that you were supposed to try to have something in place so that this year's decided hunt, to take place on the other side of the New Year, could be hit by the new rules. And then this gets stuck in the legal mills, so that there is no time for hunting, we know who have been with for a while. There must be a rather short window for wolf hunting, which has to do with puppy hunting, track snow and the like. You don't need so many appeals to know there won't be a hunt. That is exactly what has happened, and that is why the alliance government made the change by delegating it to the county boards, which we think is very good. Decisions should be made close to people. Decisions can be appealed to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, which has also proved to be quite effective, including in my home county of Dalarna, where the first decision on licence hunting that was appealed was annulled by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, which considered that it did not meet the criteria that existed in the case. I think, of course, that the Supreme Administrative Court's decision on this matter should have been awaited. Neither the Minister for Rural Affairs nor I are absolutely sure what the verdict will be. If you are satisfied with the current legislation, it is great. Then we can ensure that we have a quick process that allows special protection hunting to take place. The very word says that it cannot be a long process. Now the Minister for Rural Affairs has said that this has worked satisfactorily. The Nature Conservation Association is to be congratulated. With a new President there you have a different view and make a different assessment of the protection hunts, so it may have been somewhat better when it comes to appeals. But we can take the Junsele wolf as an example. Once that protection decision had been processed, it had taken a year, and a further protection decision had been made. We are quite sure of the outcome of this. It is regrettable that the wolves in question are probably not treading Swedish soil again, and we are also quite convinced that someone has taken the law into their own hands. It is incredibly sad that the state should have such rigid rules that people completely lose confidence in legislators. It also strikes the wolf in the end. That is why I think that the decision of the Alliance Government should be firm, if it is not the case that the law says it is contrary to it. But let us first await the judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court and any comments from Brussels. I'd like to come back to you about the Environmental Protection Agency's vision. One can be a little upset that the information and decision-making documents that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency sends out to the county administrative boards are very much about what Brussels thinks. I think this is completely wrong. Of course, the Environmental Protection Agency should look at the legislation that this House has decided on and not speculate on anything else.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-140	Mr President, I would like to If we are to have an effective protection hunt, it should rest on solid legislation, Ulf Berg has written in one of his interpellations about wolf hunting. He has also written that this hunt must be able to be pursued without getting caught up in legal proceedings. This shows how Ulf Berg views wolf hunting. This is a species regulated by the Species and Habitats Directive. Of course, the legal processes must work and be clear. We have an infringement case in the EU concerning these appeals proceedings. The current regime was introduced by the Alliance Government. Only the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency can be appealed to, then it is stopped, without any court in between or after. This system has not been seen as really legal. In order for us to find out about this, the government has set up an investigation into the appeal process. That investigation shows that there is a great deal of uncertainty in this. It notes that the prohibition of appeals is not consistent with the principle of effective national remedies. It notes that the argument that the appeal would be slow has not been sued in the vast majority of cases, but the judgment of the Administrative Court has come quite quickly in terms of inhibition. We should and should have legal certainty in these matters, and that is why, of course, we also want this to take effect as soon as possible, so that we are not out of the way where we do not really know. The government therefore carried out a rather quick consultation round – it has to be admitted, but it was in order for us to have the correct rules of the game in place as soon as possible. In the consultation round there were 31 answers. Of them, 17 were positive, seven rejected and seven had some other amendments or other own thoughts about what it would be like. But the vast majority were therefore positive or had proposals in this direction. I wonder how Ulf Berg then, on his own initiative, might think that there are other things that are much better. After all, we have a legal process that needs to be put in place, and there are proposals that courts and other referral bodies support and think are good. It can also save us from violating EU law, which otherwise risks leading to a lawsuit.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-146	Mr President, I would like to I did not have time to touch on the guidance of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency in my previous post. That guide provides a discussion of what is limited in terms of the number of individuals shot in a licence hunt. The possibility of deciding whether to hunt for a wolf arises from Article 23c of the Hunting Regulation, which is based on Article 16(1)(e) of the Species and Habitats Directive. That provision is considered to allow the hunting of wolves to a limited extent and a limited quantity provided that there is no other appropriate solution to the problem the hunt intends to solve and the hunting does not hamper the maintenance of the wolf's favourable conservation status in its natural range. The European Commission does not provide clear guidelines on what constitutes a limited amount. By comparison, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency refers in its guidance to a statement from the European Commission about another predator. The statement concerned the hunt for lynx in Latvia, where the European Commission estimated that a hunt for 7 – 8% of the then current lynx population of 600 – 650 individuals was considered a sufficiently limited amount under the Species and Habitats Directive. I have full confidence in the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency in its role as central wildlife authority and in the agency's work with the management of Sweden's predators. When it comes to the regionalisation of decisions, we have no different opinion, Ulf Berg. We're behind it. It is important that we maintain regional decisions at county administrative level. This is about the examination of the matter itself. There have been a lot of legal proceedings, as Mrs Emma here mentions. I fully agree. It is a question of sorting this out. The trial concerning the hunting carried out in 2015 is not even completed. There were several different instances with different orientations. Riberdahl's investigation clearly shows that the protection hunt can normally be treated as a matter of urgency. There are cases where it has not been possible to do so. Ulf Berg brought up the Junsele wolf case, but it is a very special case. It's not a normal case. It was a wolf that had very important genetic significance, and it had been moved several times. In that case, it took a long time, but it wasn't a normal case. I take it from what Mr Riberdahl has shown in his report that this can be dealt with urgently. In the event of a future amendment of the regulation, it is also necessary to impose that requirement on a court.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-151	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Rural Development has full confidence in the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency in its role as a central wildlife authority. I would just like to remind you that this House has decided to establish a new authority in this area. What this House has also decided is that hunting for game of prey should continue as it is. In fact, this has been decided by the new Parliament in an announcement. Yet the government seems to be turning a deaf ear. I now understand why this is happening. One does not need to be very familiar with the political to understand that it is the Green Party that is pushing this issue. We noted that Emma is doing so in this debate as well. Let me start with Emmas's thoughts on the Species and Habitats Directive. There is now a discussion and debate. Unfortunately, Sweden was not present when the officials met. It is considered whether the wolf should be moved from Annex 4 to Annex 5. If it is included in Annex 5, it becomes an administrative animal. It is this discussion that is going on. There may be a reason to wait here. There is also an EU ruling in the past, where it is said that the Aarhus Convention cannot be the basis for its non-implementation in EU law. There are a number of legal considerations. I am the first to agree, but let legal considerations lead to judgments. Then we in Parliament can clarify where the legal raw material goes. It does not always end up where this House wants it, but it may turn out in case law that you have a different view. I was short on the Environmental Protection Agency. When describing to the county administrative boards what should be the basis, I think it is quite wrong to include issues relating to the EU. Among other things, reference is made to the Latvian lynx population, which had to shoot a maximum of 7%. It's completely irrelevant! The Swedish Parliament has said that it should be between 170 and 270 wolves as favourable conservation status. At the last count, there were over 400 individuals. This is what should be at the heart of the debate – not the idea of what might be found after legal trials in Brussels. I think it is very important that we wait for the current processes. Now this issue comes up as a committee initiative in this House next week, more specifically on Tuesday. We'll see if the Supreme Administrative Court has reached a verdict. On this basis, we will have to consider possible changes to be made or on the preparation by the Alliance Government of the matter, which was made when the regulation was amended, is still valid and legally correct. For it is clear that the Alliance Government studied this issue carefully. I find it sad that the Social Democrats on this issue have been lying flat. I think we should have a new partner on these issues, namely the Alliance. This will benefit the Swedish citizens living in Vargrevir.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-158	Mr President, I would like to Ulf Berg argues that there may be changes – this could happen. But we have laws and rules that apply right now. Then we must relate to them. We have a directive on species and habitats, including the wolf. Then the laws and rules that apply to species below must also apply in Sweden. Then one cannot speculate on what would happen in the future. We have an appeal process that has been the subject of a complaint in the EU. And we have an investigation that says: No, this may not be the best way. It should be like this for us to have clear legal processes and for it to work. I think it's very strange that Ulf Berg, with his party colleagues and alliance colleagues, wants to lock up the government so that you can't do it more consistently – it's about the government being able to comply with the law and do it better. I think it is a very strange procedure to try to tie up the government so that one cannot carry out one's mission. Of course we want to follow the law and have good processes. I don't really understand how you think. If there are both investigations and infringement cases and if you can adapt to make things better and more legally clear, I wonder: Why not do this?
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-162	Mr President, I would like to Now we have new and much better research than was previously available, which was the basis for the decision taken by the Riksdag. These are two completely independent studies. It is a Swedish and an American analysis of this. Both conclude that a favourable conservation status for the wolf is about 300 wolves. The new feature of those studies is that they have also taken genetic consideration. They show that, in addition to this number of wolves, one must have an immigration of Finnish-Russian wolf, one in five years. I think it is very good that these substantial research efforts have been made to clarify what it looks like. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has also concluded, and with the support of the research results, that we have a favourable conservation status. I have no reason to question it... not at all. This issue is about the legal process and the possibility of redress. Anyone who has followed the problem around this knows that we do not really have a grip on it – no one has a grip on it. It's been a lot of trouble. That is also why many people in the countryside who have suffered wolf attacks lose confidence. The Government's ambition is to obtain a fair and correct assessment in the judicial system of this and a process that is up to date and consistent with EU law as well as other international commitments.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-165	Mr President, I would like to The EU has been calling for many years on this issue: the wolf is coming! Nothing has happened yet. I would not be in the least surprised if the EU were to write off this case against Sweden. Otherwise, there is incredibly tough bureaucracy in Brussels. We know that. But yet you've just cried out: The wolf is coming! In that case, I think that once and for all, the matter should be brought before the Court of Justice so that it can be dealt with. That is exactly what I think the government should have done on this issue – if we stick to Sweden's appeal. Let us remember that the Administrative Court gave them the right to appeal and stopped the licence hunt at the beginning of the year. The Court of Appeal said no, this can't be done. It's a correct decision, and you follow the law. And the hunt was unleashed. Then they appealed to the Supreme Administrative Court, which granted leave to appeal. If I do not remember correctly, a single appeal was raised. This was done in the case of the vargrevir where the hunt was completed. So it did not affect winter hunting. It's still a little bit of guidance. That is probably why it has taken almost a year in the legal process. Of course, it is not simple, and there should be a great deal of judgment. That's why we have a legal system. But then let us see if it is a proper procedure that the Alliance Government has put in place. That is my firm opinion and hope. If that is not the case, we need to find a new system, because we cannot end up in the old one, where people are being attacked by wolves. While bureaucrats wonder whether it's right or not, the wolf takes the domestic animals of these people. We cannot go back to that order.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-169	Mr President, I would like to Ulf Berg says that the EU has called out: The wolf is coming! And nothing has happened. Well, a lot has happened, at least during the time of the alliance government. The EU shouted: The wolf is coming! The government then, in 2012, made a decision and stopped the wolf hunt. The following year, 2013, the wolf hunt was interrupted. The following year, 2014, the wolf hunt was stopped. During this government, a wolf hunt has been carried out. And there's a decision from the County Administrative Board to carry out a second wolf hunt. Things have happened historically. I know there was a huge problem. All along, there have been problems with the legal process of appeal. For this reason, the government now wants to sort this out.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-172	Mr President, I would like to Ulf Berg has asked whether the government intends to clarify animal welfare legislation on how to protect domestic animals from predator attacks. He further asks whether the government will work to ensure that county boards can contribute to predator-repellent measures for preventive purposes. The overall goal of Swedish predatory policy is that wolves and other predators should have favourable conservation status while domestic animal husbandry is not significantly impeded and other socio-economic considerations are also taken into account. Therefore, it is important that we do what we can at all levels to make it work as well as possible. We should have a policy that takes into account both humans and animals. It is regrettable that several farms with sheep herds in the area around Gnesta and in other parts of Sweden have suffered from wolf attacks. The government is working to improve the situation for sheep owners and other traders with domestic status. The Wildlife Fund, which is used to pay out grants for measures to prevent and compensate damage to domestic animals caused by large predators, was increased by SEK 10 million in the 2015 Spring Change Budget bill. In the 2016 Budget Bill, the Government proposes that this increase be doubled and permanent as of 2016. The Government has also commissioned the National Agricultural Agency to summarise and evaluate existing knowledge on how predatory attacks can be prevented by 15 December this year. They will also investigate and evaluate less tried and tested methods and propose new methods to prevent attacks. In the case of support for predator-repellent measures to prevent damage to domestic animals, there are grants to be applied for from the County Administrative Board. These subsidies have mainly gone to electric fences to protect sheep and other domestic animals. The measures are financed from the Wildlife Damage Facility or the Rural Development Programme. On the question of whether the government intends to clarify animal welfare legislation on how to protect domestic animals from predator attacks, I can mention that a proposal for a new Animal Welfare Act is currently being prepared within the Government Office.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-177	Mr President, I would like to This is an incredibly tragic matter. The state has every reason to apologize to the victims. I visited the farm on December 2nd and realized how this had happened. In May, the County Administrative Board in Stockholm was there and thought it was a pattern farm. Then the sheep suffered wolf attacks during the midsummer weekend. Then started a merry-go-round that even the authors of the Solside probably had become jealous of. It was a pattern farm that made sure that there were grazing sheep that keep biodiversity up, but all of a sudden it is the sheep owners who are the big villains. They applied for protection hunting. Finally, after many ifs and buts, the County Administrative Board decided on a protection hunt that would be conducted largely in the pastures. Excuse me, but if the wolf is inside the sheep pasture, there is good legislation in Section 28 that regulates what you can do. It didn't work, most of all as one was invaded by various organizations that ran around there at night and trumpeted to keep the wolf away. They didn't make it. Since then, there have been more attacks. They were reported to the police for unlawful action. And what was the bait? Yes, it was the dead sheep that had been collected and placed outside you laid the yard for transportation to destruction. Then comes the County Administrative Board on the fantastic idea of police reporting them because they had mismanaged their animals and because they have not invested 2 million, which is the cost of having fences. I will return in my next speech to the fences, which certainly do not work 100%. Thankfully, the prosecutor dismissed the police report from the County Administrative Board. Then one thought: Finally! But what's going on? On 9 December, the Stockholm County Administrative Board decided to present six points to the sheep farmers. They were going to say how they were going to close and one with the other. Me and the rural minister have a few years on their necks. We lived when there was gunfire money on the wolf in the 1960s. Today, it seems to me that it is money for businessmen in this industry – an industry that is being discussed in the food strategy. There are incredibly good market shares for lamb meat. The sheep keep the landscapes open and contribute to our having a fantastic biodiversity. But here the state is acting to remove sheep owners. What if this were to be heard? There are wolves almost all over Sweden to and from. Every animal owner will invest on his own in predatory fences at enormous costs. Otherwise, you're being reported for misbehaving your animals. The Minister for Rural Development can consider whether the reindeer in Norrland can continue to be loosed. Or do you have to lock them in? We know that there are plenty of predatory attacks there. I think that the state in this case does not accept its responsibilities. Of course, a protection hunt would have been granted. Now the country minister has the chance on the TV camera to apologize to the family.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-187	Mr President, I would like to I hope we don't discuss individual cases. It will be official practice if the minister is to go out and tell you how to do it. The question was well what protective measures can be taken to prevent predatory attacks. There, this government has taken great strides forward compared to the previous government. We have set up an investigation to be presented on 15 December, as the Minister for Rural Affairs said. The investigation proposes new methods for preventing attacks and injuries. I myself have been to a seminar where a lot of exciting new variations were presented on how to do it. In addition to fences, you could use cameras and drones and so on. So there are a lot of good ideas in this area. Of course, that is always regrettable for those who lose their domestic animals. I don't suppose anyone wants to be exposed to it. That is why this government has allocated 10 million extra to preventive measures in the spring change budget and to compensate for predatory damage. An additional 10 million have also been allocated, so there are 37 million annually to prevent and compensate damage to domestic and domestic animals. That's a lot more than the Alliance government did. It is incredibly important to get these measures to create acceptance for predators. They're here to stay. It was bullet money before, yes. The wolf has been extinct, yes. But we do not have that order today. Today, the government's policy – and I think it was your policy – is that people and predators should be able to live together. But then we have to adapt to the new conditions. It was a long time ago that we had so many predators in Sweden that we have today. It requires new ways to care for your animals, to fence and so on. That is why more money is needed, as the government has set aside. I hope that this money will make an impact, so that more pet owners can have the means to be safe and fence their animals. Perhaps we can find new measures that we do not even know about today. Unfortunately, those who are under attack should have a reasonable remuneration for it. The absolute best thing is that the money can be used for as many preventive measures as possible so that we do not have to see grated sheep.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-193	Mr President, I would like to In Sweden we have regionalised management that we both think is good. I also heard that from Ulf Berg in the previous interpellation debate. This means that the county administrative board is the one that makes decisions. For me, it is very important that we should be able to have domestication, regardless of whether we have wolf or other predators. There may be reason to review the legislation in this area too. We have significantly increased the funding to help those pet owners who have wolf or other predators in their vicinity. We have also given a special mandate to the Swedish Board of Agriculture to develop better measures to protect livestock. The individual case is tragic. As Ulf Berg certainly understands, as Minister, I cannot go into an individual case, but what has happened in Molstaberg is very regrettable. Predatory attacks on cattle are just as tragic no matter where it happens. In this case, there was a police report, but the prosecutor's office has closed the case anyway. I'm not gonna value it. I can't do that as a minister. We need to find opportunities for people to have domestication. One should feel safe, but at the same time we should also have a favorable conservation status for our large predators. We're not gonna walk away from that. This is an interaction where it is very difficult to find a good line.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-197	Mr President, I would like to If it has been understood that I want the Minister for Rural Development to interfere in an individual case, I naturally apologise for that. It was not my intention, but I used this case as an example. I am very pleased with the answer and that we agree that we cannot have this system of things. It is very important that the promised bill on animal health considers who is responsible for what. I am the first to think that it is a good thing to get additional funds for predatory fences, but it will cost incredibly large amounts of money. I've been wondering if the fences shouldn't be there before the wolf so we don't have to worry. Let's call them Gunilla and Valter. We can think about whether they don't live in Västmanland. They have set up fences 20 08, 2009 and 2010 of a total of 1.2 km. It is a six - threaded predator's fence, equivalent to two - and - a - half tons of iron wire. They have received support from the county administrative board of 300 000, and they have spent 1 million to set up the fence. Of course, care is added to this. It's big money. Gunilla and Valter have had three attacks, two of the wolf and one of the lo, despite the fences. In one case, the attack was on the water. The problem there is that the water level may differ by 80 centimeters. Today, Gunilla and Valter have no sheep because they cannot do sheep farming. At the same time, there are also land that really needs grazing mules in order to maintain biodiversity. We have decided in this House that there should be wolf. Then it is also important that there is legislation that increases the acceptance of the wolf. There must be clear rules on who is responsible. Disappointing all animal owners is the wrong way to go. There should of course be correct and good fences that keep the animals inside and that do not harm the animals. Let's stick to the first case we discussed. Normally, we know that animals should be grazing. There is even legislation on this issue. In the Molstaberg case, the County Administrative Board wants the animals to be cancelled earlier than normal to protect them. We don't want a system of things where domestic animals should be kept indoors all the time. Then we will not be able to maintain biodiversity. It is important that in a dialogue we find good and clear rules where it becomes the animal owner's obligation to keep the animals inside fences, not to keep the wolf outside. If there are such concerns, there must be state resources. I also do not think it should be required for landowners to take the help of predator associations and other things. There is not the competence to make these fences, and there may be some controversy. This shall be carried out between the State and the holding.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-205	Mr President, I would like to Ulf Berg points to two examples where animal owners have had their sheep and domestic animals grated. I have said this before, and I say it again: it is regrettable, and I hope that we can find solutions. That is why funds have been put in place. I would like to hear what solutions rather than problems Ulf Berg sees. He also agrees that humans and predators should be together. Ulf Berg cites a few examples. We see that the sheep industry is increasing in Sweden, even in areas and counties. There are certainly those who have ceased their sheep farming activities because they have many attacks, but there are many more entrepreneurs who have started to keep sheep. Fäbods are particularly vulnerable to wolf attacks. There is a pasture in Dalarna, where I live, which has received funds so that they have been able to set up fences. It may not be entirely compatible with a pasture, but they may combine and take a certain part of the pasture to the present. It will not work for everyone, but if domestic animals are to be able to stay outside, some other parts need to be adapted. On the other hand, I do not think it should happen to everyone. It won't work. They'll have to go ahead and try, and then we'll see what works. With these means and the proposals that the investigation will present on 15 December, I hope that we can see more opportunities for people and predators to live together. We will have a living predator tribe in Sweden.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-210	Mr President, I would like to Ulf Berg raised the issue of electric fences. It is a good protection but of course not a 100% protection against predator attacks. I myself have been a sheep-owner, and I know that fences require both supervision and maintenance in order for them to work best. But they're still pretty good protection. It is important that we continue to develop game protection. There are many attacks on domestic animals. Viltskadecenter at the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences compiles annual statistics. In 2014, 574 sheep were attacked – there were many – 28 cattle and two horses. In addition to them, many dogs were attacked. The wolf was responsible for most of the attacks. Of course, there were attacks of lynx and bear. It is therefore extremely important that we address this issue and find new systems, allocate more money and develop better and more effective methods. It is extremely tragic when domestic animals are attacked. I have a great deal of sympathy for the people who are affected not only once but several times.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-213	Mr President, I would like to Let us look forward to the requested investigation coming on 15 December. We need to make sure that we do the right things and that we get the most protection for the money. More research and analysis is needed here. What many animal owners perceive as a major problem is that once they get help with the fence, huge demands are made. I can testify that when those who live in Dalarna have been attacked, those who supervise from the county administrative board usually look at the fence and think about where any shortcomings have been found. Now we know that the wolf can get through the fences-- there are actually pictures of them. Therefore, there must be fences that work. If they're going to work 100%, we don't know. It is important that we get a license hunt, that wolves in territory that cause the most damage should be hunted. I also think we should consider whether the license hunt should not be used to make the wolf more shy. In the example from Gävleborg, you let your dog out in the garden to walk it, and the wolf takes the dog in front of the mates or master's eyes. It's not funny. Then we can think a lot about rules. People living in rural areas feel that this is anything but good. If this spreads with huge costs to the pet owners, acceptance of the wolf will not increase. Here it is important that those living and living in the country can do the right thing without too much trouble because of the wolf. We have said that there should be a wolf tribe, and then we must try to nurture acceptance.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-219	Mr President, I would like to We should remember that in the 1970s the wolf was virtually extinct in our country. In the 1980s there were a few isolated copies. Now there are 415 according to the latest bill. This, of course, requires adaptation and development so that this can work, so that people in these areas can keep their tambodity and feel secure. It is therefore a good thing that the question has been highlighted in the Swedish Parliament. Thank you for the debate.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-220	Mr President, I would like to Anette Åkesson has asked the Minister for Finance if she agrees with me that it should be attractive to live and work in rural areas and how the government's proposed increases in taxes on fuel can be said to be of benefit to people living in rural areas. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. One of the government's overall objectives is that Sweden should have the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020. To achieve this goal, a viable, sustainable and active rural environment is needed. It should be attractive to live and work in the countryside. Rural areas face major challenges but also have good opportunities. The policy will contribute to viable and innovative companies, to good conditions for rural living and to the sustainable use of natural resources, both in Sweden and globally. We in the government have these priorities in mind when deciding on measures to promote rural areas, including in the Swedish Rural Development Programme. For example, we are investing heavily in broadband outside the major cities, which is complemented by efforts in the three northern regional fund programmes. The Rural Development Programme also provides specific funding to increase access to local services. Both rural residents and entrepreneurs should have good access to basic services such as grocery stores and fuel facilities. Reducing the climate impact of travel and transport and developing a sustainable transport system is a major challenge. This means, for example, stepping up efforts to reduce the share of fossil fuels in favour of renewable alternatives. In rural and rural areas there are many of the renewable resources needed for positive social development. Here, business opportunities can be created for rural businesses. By increasing the taxation of fossil fuels, it is possible to finance important investments for Sweden while strengthening the environmental impact of the tax system. At the same time, the government is well aware of the highly exposed competitive situation of Swedish agriculture and forestry. The Government therefore proposes that agriculture and forestry be compensated by increasing the tax reduction for diesel by SEK 300 million per year during the period 2016– 2018.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-228	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for Rural Affairs for his reply. It is gratifying that we all seem to agree that it should be attractive to live in rural areas and that there must be good conditions for the whole of Sweden to grow. The fact that the S-MP government, as well as the Alliance, invests in broadband deployment, is positive. Access to fast internet is no longer part of attracting people to rural areas, but is a prerequisite. It has gone from being a marketing opportunity for rural municipalities to being an absolute minimum requirement. His Rosling has become known, among other things, because he is good at showing how Western prejudices about developing countries do not match reality. I believe that the same can be said about the image of Swedish urban dwellers of those living in rural areas. You form an idea of how life in the country is based on the picture you get when you spend a few weeks a year in the summer house or hunting. With a pure Skansen perspective, many national interests are driven from Stockholm, and they want to stop the development that is necessary for those living in the country to be able to follow in or perhaps even drive the development. In parenthesis can be said that the Stockholm perspective on the government's proposal to close the Öresund Bridge bears witness to ignorance about what it looks like and what happens in Skåne. Many have chosen a life in the countryside because it has its advantages. One is aware that one can have longer distance to business and service as well as lower public transport. Still, the benefits are considered. The quality of life is greater with proximity to nature and contact with pleasant neighbors, to name just two examples. However, political decisions may have a greater impact, not least the increase in taxes on petrol and diesel. In the run-up to the 2014 elections, only the Green Party promised an increase in petrol tax, so no one expected it to be implemented. But the breach of S's promise came quickly. The problem is that you live in the country you can't give up a car, and it beats harder than if you have different choices and maybe choose the car just because it is more comfortable. Protecting the environment is important. The people who live in the country are also of the opinion. That is why we must politically improve the conditions for people to transport climate smart also in the country. At best, you can buy a car that went on new only propellants. However, not everyone has that possibility. This is what we must try to promote. The Minister for Rural Development himself says that it is in order to collect tax revenue that taxes on fuels are imposed. S-MP continues to tax distances instead of emissions. The thresholds for remaining in or moving to the country are being raised, driving further the current trend in urbanisation. Although the rural population in absolute terms does not fall any further, according to SCB, all the population in urban areas is growing. Now that fuel prices are being raised and freight transport is being increased, does the Minister of Agriculture intend to compensate all those living in rural areas for the increased costs in the same way as choosing to compensate agriculture and forestry with increased tax reductions on diesel?
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-237	Mr President, I would like to To begin with, I do not believe that tax cuts are always the solution to everything. That's what the Moderates and the Alliance government did. Tax cuts solve the school. Tax cuts solve elderly care. Tax cuts solve everything. The result was that it didn't work out at all. Now we are going to attack the increase in petrol and diesel taxes. But what did the Alliance government do? Well, these taxes were raised during their period — twice in fact and more than twice as much as this tax increase by 1.41 per litre. I was counting on this. The increase in taxes on petrol and diesel as we do now, with VAT and everything, means that for a motorist with a normal car that draws 0.8 liters per mile and drives 1,000 miles per year, it costs 44 crowns a month. If you drive 2,000 miles, it costs 88 kroner a month. What the Alliance did was more than twice as much, just to cope with that part. What happened under that rule also meant that we had to start with a minus of 67 billion. Then it's a matter of prioritising. We have prioritised rural areas very clearly and well. I take the example of broadband. We are going in with 4.6 billion, 4 600 million, over the programme period. We also increase the advance payments for broadband in order for the smaller municipalities to have an opportunity. We raise them to 1 million in order to get construction started also in the municipalities in sparsely populated and rural areas that have problems getting this. We are more than doubling the investment contribution to the supermarkets – more than doubling. During the time of the Alliance, it was 15 more than 35 million annually. We are now entering 88 million in investment grants for rural shops – every year for five years. We go in with 35 million to rural shops in operating aid. It is very important for the countryside to have these rural shops and also develop them into service points so that you can live, live and work in Swedish countryside. We are going in with 200 million to support rural public transport. We also go into investments in road and rail specifically for Swedish rural areas with 200 million annually over three years. These are very important investments for rural areas. I know that an increase in diesel taxation is not a popular measure, but it is environmentally responsible, and this tax increase is considerably lower than that of the Alliance. Let me remind you that in 2007 the Alliance removed the special travel allowance for Swedish rural areas introduced by the Swedish Government, Persson. We'll see when we're ready to re-establish it.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-247	Mr President, I would like to Yes, yes, the Alliance carried out tax cuts, and they may have been the solution to the problem because, together with other alliance reforms, it meant increased tax revenues for municipalities and county councils, i.e. more money for welfare – health care, school and care. We can try to see the situation from a rural perspective. Darwin didn't say that it's the strongest who can survive without it being the best at adapting. This is shown daily in the country. Even the Minister for Rural Development is certainly familiar with many who run their farms in half-time while they have a permanent job for a secure income. Or there are those who develop the value chain, perhaps open a shop, offer hot dogs top classes or arrange food walks, just to name a few examples of what I see in my vicinity. It shows that you adapt. They are survival artists and in many cases those micro-entrepreneurs, which we often talk about in other contexts. This means that our job as politicians is to ensure that, even if we do not improve the conditions for people in rural areas, we do not at least impair them. Our goal should be to make living in the country easier and cheaper. There are no victims living there. It is people who have learned to fend for themselves if only they have the opportunity. An increased tax on petrol may be possible. But it is one of several parts that are put on each other and that make life tougher. In combination with likely long travel times to work or driving children to various activities, it becomes more expensive. In addition, the creative, in a negative sense, introduction of the indexation of petrol tax contributes to the growth within a few years to a very large extent, also without anyone having to answer politically for it. The S-MP builds into the system that they as politicians should not be held accountable when people suddenly discover how expensive petrol has become. It's both cowardly and unworthy. In large parts of the country, forests account for a significant part of employment, and forests have great potential, including from an environmental perspective. According to the Forest Industries, there is an opportunity to increase the number of employees by up to 25 000 by 2020. It should be interesting for the government, not least because there are jobs in the countryside. Unfortunately, the S-MP has added a budget which, as they themselves state, reduces the number of jobs. This means that even if, as the Rural Minister did in his reply, it says that it has an overall objective that Sweden should have the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020, it is just words. It is not shown in action. The fact that the government chooses to reduce the RUT and ROT deductions, which have turned black jobs into white jobs, is no secret. Precisely the RUT deductions have grown throughout the country because home service companies have grown up where the demand is. The biggest increase in customers over the past five years has been in Kronoberg, Norrbotten and Skåne. There is job growth that is now being strangled. In conclusion, the S-MP chooses to increase petrol tax to a level that will be the world's highest from 2019 onwards, and the second most sparsely populated country in Europe, while at the same time reducing the number of jobs. I wonder: how does actual policy relate to what is called overall targets for unemployment? Has the government been counting on the long-term consequences of indexing the increased price of petrol? How does it hit rural people?
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-256	Mr President, I would like to I do not know what estimate Anette Åkesson has to say that we will have the world's highest petrol tax. But if that is the case, then the alliance government has been a much greater contributor to it than the present government is. We see what happens to welfare when the tax has been reduced by 140 billion. It cracks in many pieces, not least out in Swedish countryside. What did the Alliance do? Yes, the compensation system contributed 1 billion to the municipalities, 1 000 million. Where did that money go? Yes, to the richest municipalities. Did they come to the countryside? No, not at all. The countryside got nothing. We are making a substantial investment in Swedish rural areas. I mentioned the diesel tax reduction. That's 900 million in three years. What did the Alliance do? Yes, diesel tax reductions for agriculture and forestry were reduced from 2.38 to 90 cents. At the same time, the tax was increased considerably for them. We improve the diesel tax reduction so that it is raised from 90 øre to 1.70. Not since the 1990s has Norrlandstjänst got a full calculation of what has been negotiated. What happens now? Yes, it is raised to the maximum ceiling for rural areas in Norrland, which have huge problems with agriculture. As far as the national envelope from the EU is concerned, we went in with 100% national funds, 152 million for agriculture that is affected, to milk producers. We have started work on a national food strategy. When we were in opposition, we pushed that question hard in Parliament, but the Alliance said no year after year. Now it comes, and I welcome the Moderates in that job. It is important that we have a national food strategy. The fact that we are increasing our food production in Sweden, which we must do, is very rural. It creates development in the primary industry, agriculture, horticulture and coastal fishing. In addition, it creates development in the Swedish food and beverage industry. Today, 55 000 people work there. It is an extremely important branch of industry, the fourth largest in Sweden, and it is often very rural. When we create these opportunities, it provides jobs in the Swedish countryside, and there the national food strategy is an extremely important part. The RUT deduction is 25 000 SEK, not 50 000. If we look at how it has been used, the extra money in the deduction, we see that a very small few have used it. The RUT deduction remains, but it is 25 000 per person per year. If you're two in the household, it's 50,000. I will come back in the next speech to further rural efforts made by the government.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-265	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Rural Development may not have understood that it is the indexation of the petrol tax that contributes to the fact that in 2019 we will have the world's highest petrol tax. It is the Social Democrats and the Green Party that have introduced indexation. The alliance's tax cuts contributed to many more jobs, 350 000 more jobs, and welfare had never had as much tax revenue and resources as it was then. The prosperity grew every year with the Alliance. It is easy to say that it should be attractive to live and work in the countryside. But it's another thing to deliver the conditions because it really is. The S-MP has implemented some, but at the same time they reduce the economic conditions for remaining or moving to the country. There are no victims living in the country. It is already all artists who adapt to the conditions. They're winners, according to Darwin, if we don't sabotage politically. The increase in petrol taxes is only an example that is reinforced by indexation and that punishes distances and not emissions in a large country like Sweden. That the S-MP doesn't work for the jobs is another. Long travel times to work and activities already steal resources in the form of time. Furthermore, we should not allow it to cost more. Perhaps we should learn from the countryside. How do we ensure that people do best? How do we promote more jobs, including in the country? It should be our common focus, not increasing the costs of living in the country or reducing the opportunities for businesses operating in rural areas. The way I see it, the S-MP is running completely the wrong policy. You talk a lot, but what you say isn't connected to what you deliver. In fact, the increased petrol tax provides more tax revenue that the S-MP needs, but the money is not used for jobs and definitely not with a focus on how we can create better conditions for people in rural areas. I can only regret that the S-MP really does not have the right focus and that, moreover, future petrol tax increases are cowardly hidden behind indexations. I would like to thank the Minister for Rural Development for the debate.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-273	Mr President, I would like to Moderate tax policy has put rural areas at a disadvantage. The policy of the Moderate tax benches is concerned with the rich. It is clear when it comes to the moderate billion. When you add money you give to the rich and forget Swedish countryside. That's exactly how it works. This is exactly how it works with what you mentioned about the RUT deduction, Anette Åkesson. I mentioned that it is of little importance that it is reduced from 50 000 SEK to 25 000. It is 1 per cent in Sweden that has used the deduction up to 50 000 – 1 per cent. And do you know what average income they have? Almost a million. It shows how the Moderates think of the rich municipalities and the rich people and ignore the countryside and those who are a little more difficult. We are going to invest in the national forestry programme, which is a very important rural effort. We now enter and have a very good dialogue with the business community, the forest industry and non-profit organisations, which can create many jobs in Swedish rural areas. It's extremely important. The forest industry says that they now have a government that takes the forest seriously. Six companies have decided to invest 17 billion in the Swedish forest industry because they know that they now have a government that sees the forest as a huge resource and an opportunity also for rural areas. We have set up a national rural committee to work with a coherent rural policy, and all parties in Parliament are welcome there. You are very warmly welcome with input, Anette Åkesson, which makes a difference to the better for the countryside.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-278	Mr President, I would like to Erik Andersson has asked me what employment targets the government has for its reforms and whether the future tax-funded welfare will be funded through increased marginal taxes. The goal of reaching the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020 is to govern the government's economic policy. An employment policy framework with a clear objective is an important element in achieving results and clarifying the priorities for future policies. The Government's Job Agenda consists of three parts: investments for the future in infrastructure, housing and climate change; an active business policy for more and growing companies; and investments in skills and matching to equip everyone to take the jobs that are emerging. It is very difficult to assess the impact of proposed or announced reforms and investments. This is due to considerable uncertainty as to the extent and rate of changes in behaviour in the economy. Overall, the measures proposed and announced by the government are assessed as a positive contribution to GDP growth. The measures are expected to contribute to slightly higher employment and slightly lower unemployment in 2016 and thus to a slightly more even distribution of income. What tax proposals can be considered in the future is something that the government is examining within the framework of the budget work, where an overall assessment and balance are made.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-284	Mr President, I would like to In the face of every proposal, the Prime Minister would ask his ministers if this would lead to more jobs. Obviously, the Prime Minister has forgotten to ask the Minister for Finance, as she is doing a lot of reforms that risk future jobs. Let us take RUT as an example. If this were to be developed, some 16 000 jobs could be created in Sweden, but it is a later debate. Government policy will lead to 15 000 – 20 000 fewer jobs. Many know that in the election movement there was talk of more jobs, but nothing happened. Now we see only increased taxes on education and businesses. In a leader in Expressen, who was very interesting, we could read: Congratulations Löfven, you are the worst. The article criticizes the Prime Minister for his love of setting strange goals. We have heard about Europe's lowest unemployment by 2020. That is a very strange objective, because if unemployment in Europe increases, it will be easier for the Minister for Finance to reach it. And as things stand, the goal may not be achieved. Then we want to close the income gap, but without any clear, measurable targets for how we want to do it. It's a bit like socialism, which can easily be explained like this: If you don't get me either, and vice versa, and if I haven't, you shouldn't have either. It's socialism. Before the elections, Löfven were the gold boy of the business community. He could negotiate and spoke well of the Swedish companies. We heard new words like innovation catapults and trainee programs. There were many fine words, but nothing has happened. As far as trainee programmes are concerned, I think it is 43 who have signed up to date. The levelling out of income differentials in Sweden appears to be due to increased marginal taxes. We are already the most heavily taxed country in the world with regard to the marginal tax. We even go about Aruba in the Caribbean. Income differentials are of course not an end in themselves, but they act as a driving force for education. Some time ago, I could hear the Minister for Labour say that we should compete with skilled workers. But why, then, does it not pay enough for academics to educate themselves? The average profitability of academic education in Sweden means a salary that is 16 per cent higher than if you have upper secondary education. For many groups, however, training is not worthwhile at all. For important groups that are the bearers of society in our country – secondary and secondary teachers, librarians, biologists and occupational therapists – it is not worthwhile to study at the university. Worst is it for women with academic education, who receive only 7% more in salary than women with upper secondary education. This can be read in Saco's study on the impact of academic studies on living wages. In the report you can read a lot more than that. I realise that my speaking time is almost up, so I will have to come back. But the question to which we are all waiting for the answer is, of course, will the welfare of the future be funded by increased marginal taxes?
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-294	Mr President, I would like to The welfare of the future, today's welfare and the entire Swedish and Scandinavian model are based on the fact that many people participate in the labour force and thus contribute to the financing of our common welfare. It is also in this way that welfare will be able to be financed in the future. That is why we need to pursue an active policy for more people to get into work, to want to work higher up the age bracket and to increase their working hours. Here the Government has a number of proposals in the budget proposal that is now on the table of the Riksdag and that are being discussed and in the spring amendment budget that we tabled earlier. This involves, for example, strengthening work environment work so that more older people can stay in the workplace. It is about investing in care for the elderly in order to increase the quality there, which of course gives more work in the care of the elderly but also an opportunity for the elderly to be able to work instead of caring for relatives. We have a number of training efforts to get young people into the labour market, for example. I am pleased that Erik Andersson addresses the need for teachers and that more people will want to learn about it, as well as the problem of whether it is profitable enough to train as teachers. The government is making a big effort on the teachers' salaries in the budget, to which the Moderates unfortunately say no. If Erik Andersson is concerned about the profitability of training as a teacher, my question will of course be: Does Erik Andersson think it would be interesting to support the government's large and very extensive investment in teacher salaries?
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-299	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish model is about that there are many who contribute, that there are many who want to work. But it is also about us competing through innovation, education and skills. Then it is important that education pays off. As I said earlier in the speaker's chair, there are several groups with academic education where it does not pay to get educated. Then something is not quite right in the country. Clearly, education must always pay off. Saco, a large organisation with many members, believes, first and foremost, that the spread of wages should increase. They feel that there is a clear link between the individual's career prospects and the spread of pay within a profession. All academics should be able to triple their salary during their professional lives, they believe. They also state that taxes on labour should be reduced and that no one should pay more than half of a wage increase in tax. This means that the military tax will be abolished. The birth tax reduces the willingness to work. According to government investigators, abolition would be self-financed. Now the Entrepreneurship Forum also raises a warning finger about the focus for Sweden, where education and hard work, innovation, entrepreneurship and risk-taking do not pay off. It is not a good development for a country like Sweden, a country that has previously had brilliant entrepreneurs, innovators and inventors like Ericsson, and we also have Asea and Laval. With the high marginal taxes, there is a risk that people do not want to work extra. Then a trainee cannot go in instead, it is about wanting to work an extra hour and that it will also be more profitable in the pay envelope. We have the world's highest marginal taxes. It was supposed to be a temporary measure, but it's still there. The problem in Sweden, as it stands today, is that we have high taxes on low incomes and high taxes on high incomes. My hope is that we will get a Sweden where it will pay to educate itself, to want to achieve success.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-305	Mr President, I would like to Almost everyone in this House agrees that in order for us to pass the Swedish model, more must work and we must have more companies that contribute to growth and prosperity here in Sweden. The problem is that just saying this is not enough. Politics is not only about wanting something to become, it is also about being able to make sure it is in place. It's got to get to a way. How do we get more jobs? This question is becoming more and more central as Sweden has ever greater challenges ahead of it. We have a huge challenge in getting all the people who have come to Sweden into work. We have continued a large exclusion of a large part of Sweden's population that does not enter the labour market. We have increasingly increased and tough global competition. Then it is not enough just to say that you want more people to work. There must be a clear, scientifically-based and rational political agenda for achieving this. There are three main points. It is about more people having to feel that it pays to work, especially those who have not yet entered the labour market. I'm talking about young people and those who have come here as refugees in the near future. They must be given stronger incentives to enter the labour market, so that they do not get caught up in exclusion and dependency on benefits. There, Mo deraterna has proposed a first job deduction, a tax reduction that is particularly beneficial for the first job. More simple jobs are also needed, not least in order for all the people who have come here as refugees to get a chance on the Swedish labour market. It must also be more profitable to run businesses in a more entrepreneurial environment. In relation to all the challenges that Sweden faces and the structural problems that exist in the economy, the government does exactly the opposite to address. Taxes are being increased to make it less profitable to work, less profitable to train, less profitable to run a business and less profitable to pursue a career as an entrepreneur. Instead, the money received from the increased taxes is being used to increase contributions above all so that it also reinforces the effect of making work less profitable. This is not something that only I stand here and say, but independent economic assessors, such as Konjunkturinstitutet, the Financial Policy Council and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, all agree that government policy leads to fewer jobs. The interpellant, my colleague Erik Andersson, has asked what calculations the Minister of Finance uses to determine how many jobs her policy provides. That question has been asked many times in this House. I have put it, Erik Andersson has put it, and several other politicians have confronted the Minister for Finance with this. But she refuses to give any answers. On one occasion she actually answered a written question that I asked. It was the question how many more jobs her policy will create in the public sector. At the time, the Minister of Finance replied that there was 1.2 per cent increase per year until 2020. That's about 80,000 jobs if you do math. But 80 000 jobs will increase unemployment. There will not be enough jobs, given the population increase.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-313	Mr President, I would like to I noted that Erik Andersson did not answer the question. He addresses the problem of teachers and feels that training is not worthwhile. Then I ask if Erik Andersson and the Moderates should not think about the big teacher wage initiative that the government is doing so that more people will want to stay as teachers, further train themselves as teachers and train themselves as teachers, where we make a big effort that will improve the economy for many teachers in Sweden. I'm afraid the Moderates are against it, but you might be able to reconsider. Could this perhaps be an interesting suggestion, given that there is now a concern at Erik Andersson for the teachers and whether it pays enough to be a teacher? Otherwise, I wonder what other suggestions the Moderates have for it to be more profitable to train as a teacher. It would be interesting to hear, given that you have raised the issue yourself. I also heard that it was self-funded to abolish the military tax. Then, of course, I wonder why the Moderates do not propose it, if you think it is self-financing. Fredrik Schulte talks about his first job. Then I just want to note that Fredrik S chulte and I get more in the first job deduction than those who actually have the first job.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-317	Mr President, I would like to We can see that six out of ten people in Sweden lose out on government policy and eight out of ten households lose out on government policy. Outsiders and dependency on benefits will be increased. The Minister of Finance is welcome to tell me about the government's investment in high school teachers. How much more in the wallet will there be after tax to our talented high school teachers? The Alliance carried out a number of reforms that gave upper secondary school teachers about one month's salary more per year in their wallets. I don't think this government can compete with that. But I am very curious about the answer, Mr President. How much more in your wallet will a high school teacher get with government policy? We have launched the first job of employment, we have a training obligation, and we have also pointed to fixed-term employment. In the current situation, it is clear that we need to find new ways of getting people into the labour market, for the best integration there is is just to get into a workplace and learn the language. This has been the case many times before in this country, Mr President, and I believe that this medicine will continue to work. The government will be happy to disprove who has counted on this issue. If it doesn't pay to be educated, I don't think we're going to get more jobs in this country in a future.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-322	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates feel it is very important that it pays better to train as a teacher. That is why, during the last parliamentary term, the Alliance Government launched a reform that we called the first teacher reform. It was about 20 000 first teachers' positions being announced. I don't remember exactly how many there were. It was maybe 30,000 or 40,000. These services went to the most talented and sharpest teachers. When you became a first teacher, you received a salary increase of between $5,000 and $5,000. So it was a powerful carrot for the smartest and most talented people to go to the teaching profession. That's the way we wanted to go. Instead, this government has put forward a proposal to raise the salaries of all teachers. It can be heartwarming. The problem is that it is a major step from the Swedish model, i.e. that wages should be set by the social partners. With this proposal, the Minister for Finance risks having a situation where all the professions will say: why can't we get a higher salary? Their wage claims will also be legitimate. The problem is that we in Sweden have a model where it is not politicians who should set wages. But now the Minister of Finance has opened up and pushed the snowball, and it may well roll down the hill and cause major problems on the Swedish labour market. But the basic problem is that the government is pursuing a policy that increases taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship and invests in grants. It's not going to be good for the future.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-327	Mr President, I would like to When moderate governments decide to interfere and influence wages and raise them for some teachers, it is good politics. When Social Democratic and environmentalist governments do the same, it erodes and destroys the Swedish model. With regard to how Fredrik Schulte views the proposals, it is clear that it matters to him who makes the proposals. On the other hand, it is very clear in this debate that the Moderates do not have any suggestions for how more people will want to train as teachers. The career positions that Mrs Schulte is talking about remain. They're behind the government. But this is about a further increase in wages that will not go to all teachers but to the skilled teachers, but to a much broader group than those that Fredrik Schulte is talking about. The government sees that there are very many teachers around the country who are extremely skilled and do a very important job. The government wants them to be visible and noticed. It is quite clear that the government has a clear and good policy for more people to want to train as teachers and stay as teachers, while the Moderates stand empty-handed even though they obviously see the problems so much that they choose to take them up from the Parliament's pulpit.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-330	Mr President, I would like to Helena Bouveng has asked me whether I am re-evaluated the proposal to halve the ceiling of the RUT deduction or whether I have any other estimates as to where the jobs that will reduce unemployment will emerge. I find it fascinating that Helena Bouveng for the seventh time this year is interpelling about the changes in the RUT deduction that will be implemented on 1 January 2016, this because they are not expected to mean any change for the vast majority of people who make RUT deductions today. Even after the proposed extension of the RUT deduction, agreed by the Government with the Moderates among others, the reduction of the ceiling will have a very limited impact on users. In the 2016 Budget Bill, the Government presents the focus on the Job Agenda. It is about future investments in housing, climate change and infrastructure, an active business and innovation policy and investments in skills and matching. These initiatives create jobs here and now, while the conditions for more jobs are strengthened in the long term. By equipping people for the jobs that are emerging, the policy also contributes to reducing unemployment.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-333	Mr President, I would like to It is not every day that a finance minister is fascinated by a simple Member of Parliament. So I'll take it as a compliment. In my home county, Jönköping County, 464 people were employed in the household services sector in 2014. This figure is said to be significantly higher for 2015, when we can see that more and more people are using the RUT deduction. Until now, there are a lot of people who also want to use more services than just help with cleaning once every 14 days. In fact, the whole country is about 20 000 jobs that have been created. It is in many and very many new jobs that previously in steam pieces were either black or completely unpaid – double-working women, to speak plainly. The Bankruptcy Institute has reported that the deduction has long been self-financing through increased tax revenues. That border was already crossed at 10 000 new jobs, and now we are in the double. Some time ago, the Minister of Finance himself stated at the so-called Gasell Gala, arranged by Dagens Industri, that the RUT deduction was at least cost-effective. In some media it was called a tribute to the RUT deduction. I don't know if you can call it a tribute. But at least it's okay from the Minister for Finance and she thinks that this alliance reform might not be completely crazy. In fact, it has led to 20 000 people getting their first job at market pay. If I understood the Minister of Finance correctly, this is a better way to open up than a low-wage path. When I read these lines from the Gasell Gala, a jump was sparked at me, at the industry and at those who are knocking on to get a foothold on the Swedish labour market. Now perhaps Sweden's Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson, who represents a party whose election promise was to have Europe's lowest unemployment by 2020, has actually reconsidered so that in our next agreement we can agree not only that this will include more services but also to restore the ceiling on the RUT deduction to the previous 50 000 SEK. It would be a positive restorer that, according to the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, could mean another 16 000 jobs. I recognise that 16 000 new jobs in the RUT sector do not solve all the challenges ahead, but that is an important part of the solution. This is an important solution as it is a completely new sector that has actually emerged in Sweden. If the Minister for Finance and I now agree that this is cost-effective in bringing more people into the labour market, why is this positive development being hampered and limited by a halving of the amount of the RUT deduction? Why do you say no to jobs that are right here and now? Even the Minister of Finance now admits that there are a lot of jobs for the money.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-339	Mr President, I would like to I should like to say something briefly on this important issue. We could hear the Minister of Finance listing a number of different initiatives and possibly reforms that could be made in connection with the halving of the RUT deduction. But then you should know that the halving gives only SEK 90 million in increased tax revenue to the state. The Minister of Finance seems to be able to conjure all kinds of magic with these 90 million crowns. In fact, it is a very difficult issue for the Social Democracy. It is probably based in the turn of the century when there were maids in the home of the bourgeoisie. That's where the problem is. We could hear a few years ago that the Social Democrats in Stockholm County, I think it was, launched butler in the subway as an alternative to RUT. It didn't go so well though – I mean, a butler in the subway! It was a pig debate, and this is a very difficult question for S. To appease some of their party friends, they say: Yes, we will squeeze them in the rich municipalities north of Stockholm that have indoor pools! Then we'll halve the deduction, and then I'll bring the labour movement along. But in fact, it's probably a pretty good reform. So it was chosen to say that RUT should not go to the cleaning of indoor pools. When I've been out to different RUT companies, however, I haven't seen or heard a single one that has cleaned an indoor pool. I have even asked the parliamentary investigation service to see if it is possible that an indoor pool has been cleaned, but there is no indoor pool that has been cleaned – at least not what can be seen in the figures that exist. The fact that the Minister of Finance claims that the halving is done because it should not go to indoor pool cleaning therefore has only ideological reasons, and she does so to appease her social democratic party colleagues. In fact, she thinks the RUT deduction is pretty good. It's a job. It's got 20,000 jobs. It is also a reform that is very good for greater integration. Many start in the RUT business, where they learn the language. Many remain, and others move on to other professions in society. You are insured, you work white in a company and you get pension money. It is a brilliant reform, as the Minister of Finance came up with the other day at the Gasell Gala.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-345	Mr President, I would like to Yes, there were a wide range of statements from Erik Andersson and Helena Bouveng. I would like to start by pointing out that we are making a very small change to the RUT and that it is not a coincidence. It is not that at the moment we have come to the conclusion that there are points with RUT. That is why the change the government proposes is very small and affects about 1 percent of RUT buyers. They are the ones who, as Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht told us earlier today, have an average income of almost SEK 1 million. In addition, we make a delimitation in that it should be about simpler jobs, and that is the point of RUT itself. It's supposed to be about simpler jobs. We can compare the change we make of RUT with the change we make of ROT, which is much more extensive. ROT is a less cost-effective tax reduction than RUT. Compared to all the other tax cuts the alliance government did – and as it said it did in order to create jobs – RUT is the one that is more cost-effective. Compare with, for example, the employers' contribution for young people! It is very expensive and inefficient, at least if you want to create jobs. The same applies to the reduction in restaurant VAT; it is good if you want to give more money to the restaurant owners, but it is not an effective way of creating jobs. Compared to these measures, the RUT deduction is much more cost-effective, and therefore the government makes a very small change of it. Various claims that come about what the government or I think about RUT are completely caught out of the air.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-349	Mr President, I would like to Two weeks ago, the Finance Minister and I stood in this House discussing productive tax reforms. I started from a report written by LO, which was concerned that tax subsidies are currently being used to shift labour from higher productivity sectors to lower productivity sectors and that jobs in the RUT sector are a problem because they reduce the GDP. If I do not remember correctly, the Finance Minister was also concerned that productivity growth was low, although the percentage development per person employed was well above most European countries in the last eight years. I share the view of the Minister for Finance that productivity growth is crucial for a country's economic growth. How we look at the road to increased productivity growth in the current situation of Sweden, with many new people who have chosen to come to our country, may, however, differ. A recently published report from Ekonomifakta, based on data from SCB, shows that RUT use has become more common in all income categories but that growth is actually strongest among middle income earners. When RUT was introduced, the deductions in the first few years were largely made by those who already bought the services, i.e. those who can afford without deduction – exactly what Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht mentioned earlier this morning. I admit that too, but today we see the biggest increase in the income range of SEK 23 886 to SEK 27 343 a month. I guess it's a little far from that million-dollar class that was mentioned this morning. With that in mind, however, I come back to our common desire to have increased productivity growth in Sweden. In the report Equal work? we can see how working hours during the reign of the Alliance increased among those who were already working. For women, the increase has meant a total of 13 000 full-year jobs, while for men only 5 000 full-year jobs. From this, at least I conclude that far more women than before have chosen to work more hours. They have taken on greater responsibility, stepped up on the career ladder, skills developed and chosen to start their own business. They are thus contributing to increased productivity growth. I am quite convinced that the RUT reform has been a strong contributor to this positive development, and this shows not least the report by the Financial Facts: young women at the beginning of their careers now see it as possible to actually combine family life with a career. Does the Minister of Finance share my conclusion that it is important for productivity growth and a positive development for Sweden of the bnp that more women are involved and contribute to this? Does the Minister of Finance see it as a problem that a developed RUT sector is actually crucial for more women choosing highly qualified and time-consuming jobs?
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-355	Mr President, I would like to When we talk about the RUT deduction, there are really two changes. Sometimes it may seem that the halving is due to the fact that you should not clean indoor pools or have butler services, and I want to say that I do not think you should use the RUT deduction for that either. One change, however, is to rewrite the legislation so that the deduction can only go to simple housework, and the other is to halve it. In fact, the law could have been changed in such a way that it had only taken simple housework but had retained the deduction as it is today, without halving it. It would have been much better, especially when it gives only SEK 90 million to the Treasury. So I do not understand why the Social Democracy chooses to make such a deterioration and halve RUT when it gives only SEK 90 million in increased tax revenue. Because the half-life creates a great deal of concern in the industry. The RUT sector grew by 10% a year after the reform was implemented, but now it is growing by only 1%. It is clear that there will be concern in the ranks when the government tampers in this way. Mr President, I would like to I therefore believe that the government could have done differently. Of course, it should not go to pool cleaning or butler services, but you could have changed the law in such a way that you wrote a lot of simpler jobs and without halving it all.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-359	Mr President, I would like to As my colleagues have said, the RUT reform is an incredibly successful reform that has given up up to 20 000 more jobs. These are jobs that have mainly gone to people who are far removed from the labour market. To a large extent, it is foreign born who have been given a chance on the Swedish labour market. It is also a reform that has made many jobs that were formerly blacks white and that people who perform these services now pay taxes and get their employer's contributions paid. It provides a pension with all that it entails – a security in the general welfare system we have. These are simple jobs that do not require a long, solid education. It is above all the people who are far removed from the labour market who get a chance, a first step in. Research shows that you get the chance to get a first step into the labour market, it opens up for further career opportunities. In Sweden, we have the western lowest share of simple jobs. There is of course a positive side to it, and that is that we have many highly qualified jobs, many jobs in knowledge-intensive industries and many modern companies and startups like Spotify and Skype here in Sweden. That's very positive. But we also need a labour market that includes people who do not have a solid education. I was in an asylum home a few weeks ago. There I met a 34-year-old man, equal with me, who has fled Syria and who has about five years of primary education. He must also have a place in the Swedish labour market. The RUT reform is a reform that has made it possible for those who previously did not have the chance. And, as I said, 20,000 new jobs have been created by the reform. It is really quite easy to explain why it has created so many jobs, because if the minimum wage, according to collective agreements, for a person who works as a cleaner is 120 SEK an hour, the final bill, after all taxes and charges, for the customer is not 120 SEK but rather 270 SEK. We'll halve it with RUT. This means that ordinary people can also afford to hire RUT. That way it becomes a win-win situation. Ordinary people who work and work and try to make everyday life go together can get relief at home, and people who are far from the labour market and find it difficult to get in get a job. It is therefore positive for all groups. The fact that the Minister of Finance is going after this reform and is going to nip it at the edge, not in a serious way but nonetheless nagging it at the edge, is distressing. This means that fewer people than would otherwise have been possible get jobs. We cannot afford to flinch job-creating reforms at the edge. With the huge flow of refugees that has come to Sweden, we cannot afford to nudge job reforms that work at the edge.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-367	Mr President, I would like to I fully share Helena Bouveng's view that it is important that more women can be out in the workplace, take on the job and make a career. Then, like Helena Bouveng, I may not think that it is only the RUT reform that is important for this. I think it is also extremely important what quality we have in, for example, care for the elderly and childcare for women's opportunities to work but also to make a career. Here, the government is making extensive efforts to improve quality in care for the elderly but also to improve quality in childcare, in addition to the major efforts we make to improve quality in school. It is initiatives that are important for our children and our elderly, but also extremely important for women's opportunities to work. It is also efforts that will make it easier for all the women who work in these activities by getting more colleagues, just as the proposals we have for extra services and trainee jobs can be something that makes it easier for the women who work in these businesses to do so for a long time, not have to go down in working hours and also have the energy to work a little further up the age range. Since Helena Bouveng also believes that it is important for women to be able to work, Helena Bouveng might consider supporting the government's efforts to improve the quality of care for the elderly and childcare.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-370	Mr President, I would like to It is nice to hear that our Finance Minister shares my view that it is important that women are involved and contribute to increased productivity growth. Unlike the Minister for Finance, I am quite convinced that the RUT deduction has enabled far more women to contribute. Not least young women of childbearing age with two three children have stepped in to a greater degree. The Minister of Finance constantly argues that the halving of the RUT deduction will not affect the vast majority of those who currently make use of this deduction. Sometimes she says that it is 1 percent and sometimes it is 2 percent that comes over a use of 25 000 crowns person. However, we have now agreed on an extension and on the services to be included, including floating services and easier gardening. Now that we see that more and more people in different categories of income are making use of this possibility, it is surely not unlikely that much more than the percentages mentioned by the Minister for Finance are prepared to extend their purchases of services as well. The sector could have developed, which would have led to considerably more than the 20 000 already in employment in the sector. It had approached almost double by 2020. Can not the development that has already taken place, that considerably more women work considerably more hours, tackle tougher challenges and have got more productive jobs, in itself, be an argument for keeping the ROT deduction of SEK 50 000 per person? In this way, we get more women who are involved and contribute to a positive development in productivity, while at the same time people get their first job. At least I'd be fascinated by this win-win situation. Would it not be exciting for a finance minister to be fascinated by the fact that more people get jobs while women are involved and contribute to positive productivity to a greater extent?
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-375	Mr President, I would like to I'm not saying that I don't think that RUT may have contributed to the fact that there are women who make careers, but I think there are other things that are also important. And I'm not quite as attached to the RUT deduction as we all know that Helena Bouveng is. Given that this is the seventh time she has raised the issue in the Parliament's pulpit, one can sometimes get the impression that Helena Bouveng believes that the RUT deduction will solve all Sweden's problems. Of course, that is not the case. However, the RUT deduction will remain. It will in principle remain at the same level as today, and the services will be expanded. An average RUT user uses RUT services for approximately SEK 5,000 per year. With a ceiling of SEK 25 000, you will of course be able to expand your purchases even with new services. The services we are expanding with, such as IT at home and moving, may not be quite of the magnitude of the risk of hitting the ceiling. We don't usually move in Sweden that often.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-378	Mr President, I would like to Maria Plass has asked me about the government's work for a possible bank tax in Sweden. I appreciate the broad parliamentary commitment on this issue and note that the Moderates in their 2016 budget exercise stress the importance of increased tax collection from the financial sector. On 7 May 2015, the Government has set up a study to develop a proposal for a tax on the financial sector that reduces the tax advantage that the sector can be assumed to have as a result of the exemption of turnover of financial services from VAT. The financial sector tax shall be analysed from a legal, socio-economic, public financial and administrative point of view. The compatibility of the tax with EU State aid rules and other Union law shall also be analysed and assessed. The assignment shall be presented by 1 November 2016.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-381	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking the Minister for his reply. As the Minister for Finance says, we Moderates are open to increasing tax collection from the financial sector. Today, the financial sector is exempt from VAT in EU countries, which contributes to lower taxation than for other parts of the economy. A starting point could be, as in Denmark, to offset the tax burden by a certain increase in social security contributions for the financial sector. According to previous findings, what separates the Social Democrats and the Moderates is what this money is to be used for. My party and I believe that the aim of a bank tax must be to strengthen Sweden's competitiveness. Sweden has slipped into the international study of countries' competitiveness published annually by the World Economic Forum. By 2010, we were in second place in the world. This year, we're in ninth place. Criticism is directed at public debt, the high level of taxation on labour and the deficits in public finances.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-387	Mr President, I would like to We will, of course, deal with this in the ordinary budgetary process. On the day when a proposal for a bank tax is drawn up and we know how much money it can strengthen the public purse, we will see in regular work on the budget how we can use these resources. However, I would hate to spend the money before I know that I have it in my hand.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-388	Mr President, I would like to Once again we will have the answer: we will have to come back to that. It has become a kind of mantra for the current government. So it is not the case today that we should be able to assess the long-term impact of government policies on labour supply and employment. Instead, the Conjunkturinstitutet comes with warning figures. The demonstration From banks to children was one of the slogans of the Social Democrats prior to the 2014 elections. At the time, there was talk of an increase in taxation from the banking sector of SEK 4 billion per year, which was quickly entered by the Social Democrats into election promises without the matter being investigated. Does the Minister of Finance think that this figure is still in line with what the government is planning? The investigator shall, among other things, report the effects on competition between companies in different sectors and between Swedish and foreign companies, the effects on insurance and credit to companies and individuals and the incidence of the proposal. The impact on the administrative burden on businesses should also be highlighted. The administrative implications of the proposals for the Tax Agency and the General Administrative Courts should also be highlighted as well as any cost increases and their financing. The special investigator has a short investigation period. In view of the impact and impact of the proposal on non-banking operators, it is important to have the necessary investigation period. This must not be a hazelnut. Does the Minister of Finance consider that the timetable for reporting the mission by 1 November 2016 is reasonable and sustainable?
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-393	Mr President, I would like to It is correct that in the election campaign we said that we wanted to use the bank tax to strengthen schools. However, as it takes time to get a new tax in place and get the money in, we have chosen not to wait for the school initiatives we promised in the election campaign, but they are being implemented now. The major investments in more employees in primary schools and in more specialist teachers and educators have already been decided by the Riksdag and are about to be implemented. It is good that we have not been waiting to get the resources from the bank tax. In addition to these efforts, we also have the large teacher's salary investment of the equivalent of SEK 3 billion that is on Parliament's table to decide on. We have chosen not to wait for the bank tax but to finance these school initiatives in other ways. We did not want to delay schooling because it is a priority for the government. As far as the timetable is concerned, we have made the assessment that it is reasonable and should be kept. If the investigation comes to another conclusion, it is always possible for the investigation to request an extension of the investigation period.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-398	Mr President, I would like to There is some concern in the industry about the timetable, but perhaps there is time because it has been said that it will be introduced in 2018. However, much work remains to be done. Let us be clear that this could be another in the long line of tax increases for ordinary people that the current government wants to implement. However one chooses to design this tax, there is a predominantly risk that it will be Swedish bank customers who will have to pay. We Moderates believe that it is precisely for this reason that it is important that this tax charge is made in order to strengthen Swedish growth and competitiveness and to ensure that more people come to work. It is also important that the tax base is broadened and that this tax does not hit ordinary bank customers hard. The Minister of Finance has not given us any real information today. I look forward to further debate, because I think we will have to come back to this issue.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-402	Mr President, I would like to It is good that there is now an understanding among the Moderates that the financial industry needs to be taxed more. When you were in a government position, you made a tax cut that reduced the tax on the four major banks by up to 4 billion. It is a good thing that people have turned around and are prepared to increase the taxation of the financial sector. It is clear to me that it is possible to do so, not least in the light of the fact that VAT is not paid. We also see that there is great profitability in the banking sector in Sweden today. We will certainly have different views on what these tax revenues are to be used for. The Moderates are happy to lower taxes and believe that it creates jobs. But after eight years of government holding with Moderates who led the Ministry of Finance, the result of all tax cuts was higher unemployment, higher long-term unemployment, higher youth unemployment and growing gaps. This government pursues a different policy and tries to build Sweden strong so that together we can create high growth, good employment and a Sweden that stays together.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-406	Mr President, I would like to Johan Hedin refers to a review of the number of gunshot wounds in large cities and asks me how I assess the situation we find ourselves in and what conclusions I draw from the figures presented. Johan Hedin further asks what measures I and the government will take to put an end to the shootings. It is worrying that shootings in public places and in criminal conflicts are becoming more common. The increasing use of violence must be combated by strong measures. Work to counter the increasing armament of organised crime is an important part of this work. Just over a week ago, I presented the government's collective action against organised crime with the Minister for Justice and Migration. We then presented several measures that will have bearings on the problem that Johan Hedin pays due attention to. One example is the government's mission to the Police Authority and eleven other authorities to develop the agency's joint initiative against organised crime. The authorities have, among other things, been tasked with expanding the organisation within the initiative to include collaboration at the local level. A special focus will be placed on organised crime in socially vulnerable areas. The authorities will also increase the number of areas of crime in the initiative in order to be able to counter more types of organised crime. Another example is the Government's mission to the Police Authority to create the conditions to further counteract the presence of illegal weapons and explosives within the country. To counteract this, it requires, among other things, increased knowledge and effective working methods, which the Police Authority will now further develop. In addition, in order to reduce the number of illegal weapons in the country, the government intends to implement a new arms amnesty during the latter part of its term of office. In addition to these examples, the Swedish Police Authority and the Swedish Customs Agency, as a result of previous government assignments, have strengthened their collaboration to counteract the introduction of illegal weapons into Sweden. The Government welcomes this enhanced cooperation, and efforts towards the introduction of illegal weapons must continue to be a priority within the authorities. The government has therefore taken several measures to enable the authorities to combat illegal weapons, shootings and organised crime. In addition, the government has successfully promoted clear and high standards for the deactivation of weapons within the EU. On 18 November, the European Commission adopted a legally binding regulation establishing a common minimum level for the deactivation of arms within the EU.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-415	Mr President, I would like to The Ygeman Government does not need to interfere with the word deactivation. That is one of the things the Home Secretary has done very well. I would like to thank Anders Ygeman for his reply. It is precisely the deactivation of weapons that has been an extremely urgent issue with which we have now achieved success in the European system. There are very different views on what one considers to be deactivated weapons in different countries and Member States of the European Union. In Sweden, the word "deactivated" has never been used. Maybe that's why you stick to it. We call this a studied weapon. This means welding again and filling the pipe with concrete. It is not possible to restore and reactivate. In other countries, a small pin has been placed in the barrel. This means that these weapons have been reactivated. This is, of course, very serious. It is good that we have achieved success there. A few months ago, I was on a trip to The Hague with my colleagues in the Committee on Justice. That's very interesting. We met high-ranking potentates at the Justice Department. We visited Europol, Eurojust and the International Centre for Counter Terrorism and looked at anti-radicalisation projects and many other things that they did there and are doing very well. The most interesting thing was probably the visit we made at an ordinary police station. We accompanied a police officer on a walking patrol mission in a district of The Hague that we in Sweden would probably call an alienation area. There are social challenges, and you might experience it as dangerous if you were there at night. The policeman we joined had worked there for 30 years. It was impressive to see what an amazing contact he had with all the residents who were there, a thief as a police officer. You could see that there was a great respect. His shoe jade: I arrested their fathers once. It probably wasn't like that. But it still says a lot about how important it is to have the local anchoring. It is about the trust that that person, the individual police, builds up through his personal commitment, long-termness and continuity of work. You know him, and you can call him if you want anything. It creates trust not only in the police person itself, but also in the police as a whole and in the authorities. Ultimately, it also creates confidence in the rule of law and the judiciary, which is a matter of great urgency. I think we can overcome the problems that we see in Swedish metropolitan areas compared to big cities in our neighbouring countries that are less plagued by this type of crime by working more closely with the police, i.e. local police. I would like to know whether the Government agrees with my description and what we could do to make it more so.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-424	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to raise the issue of deactivated weapons. I share Johan Hedin's view that it is very gratifying that we have got it in place. There is also a certain language confusion – and not only when I'm going to read my script, but also in the EU – about what a deactivated weapon is and how it should be interpreted. What we're going to hold on to is that the weapon will be made permanently unusable. That must be the level we're supposed to be at. With regard to local police and locally active police officers, I welcome the fact that Johan Hedin and the Committee on Justice have been in The Hague. But there are positive examples closer. Go out to Järva and meet Martin Marmgren who works locally actively and knows the young people. Ate out to Bishop's yard and meet Tony, who's in charge there. There are many animated police officers who do this type of local police work in Sweden. The police reform that I, Johan Hedin and many others with us in this House have seen to make a reality is precisely aimed at that. We're gonna get more cops closer to the citizens. Cops who build trust among citizens can solve crime in areas and create secure residential areas. I see that next year we will have more local police officers in all police regions. We have already been informed this year that in Rinkeby in Stockholm, for example, a new police station with over 200 employees will be opened. We see reinforcements in Malmö and Gothenburg. The press conference on organised crime, which I presented in my reply, also took part in the Head of State Police, and said that it is now focusing its efforts on 14 socially vulnerable areas with a relatively high crime burden to reduce crime and make areas more secure for the vast majority of citizens in those areas who are law-abiding and thirst for order and security.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-429	Mr President, I would like to The Center Party and the Alliance Government launched a joint government initiative against organised crime, which we hear the government is now working on. That's very good. The authorities need, among other things, more exchange of information between themselves. The law of confidentiality, which prevents this, may need to be reviewed while maintaining respect for privacy. It is good to work to counter the existence of illegal weapons and explosives. Of course, increased cooperation between police and customs is also needed to overcome smuggling. What the Minister is not saying is that the government has released the demand for at least 20 000 police officers, which I find unfortunate. While showing that one does not think that the police may need to be more faced with border controls, the police are being burdened further in their already strained position. They are forced to take action to investigate crimes and, for example, to fight organised crime or such things as shootings in metropolitan areas. There is a risk of creating a substantial bottleneck in the Öresund region with new legislation announced. The police are on their knees. We have received thousands of letters, both the Minister and us, from sad police officers who want to do nothing but do their job. Instead, the double - weighted ones are under the weight of too much overtime and forced migration across the country. The other day, the Center Party announced a major initiative on the police that we believe is necessary. We want to train and hire another 1,600 police officers. It is an investment of 2 billion that spans four years. In metropolitan areas, this would mean hundreds of new police officers who could be involved in working on these issues. We are focusing a special effort on the district police, which we think is so important. It is a bit inspired by the idea of first teacher services in school. The police should be able to give skilled police officers, the really good social geniuses who work in the field, a real pay raise. We want to make that effort so that the local police can have the time and resources to do this work. To ensure continuity and long-term sustainability, we also enter it in our budget. I wonder if this is something that the Government intends to follow and pursue in the government.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-437	Mr President, I would like to First to the target of 20,000 police officers. I believe that this is an unfortunate way of controlling police activity, just as it would be unfortunate to direct the Social Insurance Agency according to how many officers it has or the health care system according to how many nurses or chiropractors it has. We will steer towards the results we want to achieve. It can also be noted that although we have abolished the objective set by the Alliance Government, we are now spending more resources on the police than ever before. We have more policemen than ever during the time that the target of 20,000 police officers existed. We have a total of 28 000 police employees in Sweden. Obviously, a good number of police officers can be found without it. As far as border controls are concerned, I note that Johan Hedin in the newspaper before we introduced border controls was deeply critical. He said it would lead to an increased reception of refugees. Now we've seen the numbers. So far, it has approximately halved the reception of refugees. Perhaps it would be nice if Johan Hedin explained how he could be so wrong in the prediction of border controls. We've never invested more money in the police than we have now. But we also have a very strained situation for the police. We may need to provide financial as well as human resources. As early as last week, the police redistributed over SEK 100 million to increase the civilian police officers at border control so that we reduce the burden on Police Sweden otherwise with the border controls that we now have. At the beginning of the year, we will have a budget dialogue with the police, which we have in our usual activities. Then we will have to look at the need to provide human or financial resources. The interpellation debate is not really about that; it is about shootings in socially vulnerable areas. There may be reason to point out that we have had ten twelve years of growing divides in Sweden. We have had eight nine years of growing unemployment, and we have had seven eight years of falling school scores. It is clear that social vulnerability is at risk of increasing crime. Therefore, it is now gratifying that youth unemployment is falling dramatically. Long-term unemployment is falling. Employment is increasing. The number of job vacancies is record-high. We are beginning to see small, small signs of a reversal in school development. The economic development one in Sweden goes as a train – 3.9 per cent growth on an annual basis for the third quarter. I hope that we can now have broad agreement in this House not only on the repressive measures, which we seem to agree on, but also on social development and the need for preventive action. It is about the need to invest in the areas that were unfortunately allowed to fall behind when the alliance government ruled Sweden. The gaps increased, and segregation increased. This is the key to ensuring that we do not involve new young people in criminal activity.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-446	Mr President, I would like to That is indeed what the Government describes: Social divides and exclusion are extremely serious. We have been through a deep financial crisis, an international crisis. I am proud to say that the government that my party was part of managed this crisis relatively well. We created more jobs during this time despite a deep crisis. Compared to most other European countries, Sweden was unique in this job creation. This is very important, and I think the Government has a considerable point there. In terms of exclusion and opportunities for young people to enter the labour market and, for that matter, the housing market – two markets that are extremely highly regulated – they have been hampered by the fact that it is far too high entry levels and too sluggish mobility. That is something that we must address, which I hope the government will agree with and will come back to in some form. When it comes to people's sense of security, the police must feel present in all parts of the country. You can't have a situation where you call the police and you don't get an answer or if you get an answer, you get a bad picture of when you might get help. There are people who testify that they have called and said that someone is breaking into their outbuildings in the countryside, but the police have no car to send – and if they have someone takes it far too long. These are things you have to work with. It has to do with the local anchoring and the confidence we have in the judiciary, which I think is so extremely important. With continuity and experienced police officers who stay long on the same service, it is easier to work long-term with contact-making, crime prevention and security-building work beyond what is needed locally. I maintain that our efforts in the area police are quite good, and I hope that we will also bring the Ygeman government along on this.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-451	Mr President, I would like to I can only say that in this respect Johan Hedin and I share the same view. It is important for many police officers, who are locally involved and who have the opportunity to operate in their areas, whether it is in rural areas or whether it is in the more vulnerable areas of big cities. The whole idea of the reform that the government and all parties in the Swedish Parliament are behind is this: Move resources from desks to the areas where they are most needed! I hope that together with Johan Hedin and the Center Party I will have the opportunity to develop that reform.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-453	Mr President, I would like to Sten Bergheden has asked me what I am going to do about the situation on our roads, what measures I am going to take to remove the illegal hauliers and lorry drivers, and what I am doing about the situation, so that we can find more well-trained traffic police officers who have the right skills to cope with the professional traffic controls on our roads. Controls on heavy commercial traffic are an important tool for maintaining good road safety, healthy competition in the haulage industry and a good social situation for drivers. These controls can also detect other types of crime. Controls are an important part of the Politigheten's work to prevent, prevent and combat crime. The reorganisation of the police has also meant that the limitations in the activities resulting from the fact that the powers, responsibilities and priorities were subject to decisions by 21 different police authorities no longer exist. The Government and the Riksdag have also decided on a number of constitutional changes that together offer better opportunities to curb illegal competition in the field of commercial transport. For the government, it is of great importance to get information on how these changes work in practice. Therefore, on 1 October, the Swedish Transport Agency, in close consultation with the Swedish Police Authority and the Swedish Customs Agency, was tasked with following up the new provisions concerning cabotage transport and measures to prevent further travel. The assignment shall be presented by 1 May 2017. The Government and Parliament have also decided on increased powers for car inspectors to take measures that previously required police officers' competence, which has created the conditions for increased efficiency in police operations. The number of police officers in traffic control can now be limited in favour of those areas where the competence of police officers is a necessary prerequisite. The reduction in the number of traffic police officers in recent years is largely due to pension departures and difficulties in re-cruiting to traffic police operations. As I have replied on previous occasions, it is the responsibility of the Political Authority to decide how to organise, staff and carry out the activities of checks on professional traffic and to ensure an adequate supply of skills in relation to the needs of the operation in both the short and long term. The Police Authority has also recently decided on a comprehensive action plan aimed at improving the efficiency of traffic operations through changes in governance, developed methods and increased automation. Finally, it is important to bear in mind that the broad mandate of the Politiska ombudsman constantly requires that difficult trade-offs be made between several urgent tasks – something that has become increasingly apparent this autumn. How this develops in the future is important to follow.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-461	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I believe that the Minister is well aware of the situation on our roads. What I lack is actually a force to get to grips with this and to come up with concrete information about what is going to happen, because the situation is, in fact, only getting worse and worse. Today we have about 250 traffic police officers. 149 of them have special skills to cope with heavy transport on our roads. A small picture from the reality out there, including from Östergötland, shows that 28 people today work with traffic within the police in Östergötland. After the summer there are only 18 left. Five of them turn 65, two go prematurely, two go to another unit and one leaves the profession. There will therefore be a total of 18 left in the traffic department, of which two police officers and four car inspectors. This group of six persons is considered by management to be too small. As a result, it will also be distributed to local police areas from autumn onwards, as reported. In Norrbotten today there is reportedly a full time as well as a manager of the area of heavy transport. We have done this investigation earlier in the Committee on Transport and Communications, and already in 2012, we came to the conclusion that the lack of trained traffic police officers is alarming. As the Minister describes, many are also retiring, and it is difficult to recruit new traffic police officers to the police. There is a question of this interpellation response, which I think breathes a lot of passivity. The government, Mr President, has the opportunity to give priority, both through regulatory letters and through the budget, to how to invest their money and where to go. The remarkable thing at this point is that there is not a word about the traffic police in the regulation letter. Despite these gigantic proposals for tax increases by the Social Democratic Government, there is no new money for spending on the police, especially on the traffic police. My question to the minister is, how do the police now work to recruit new traffic police? This is an emergency, and it will be even more urgent. What is the plan, and will we manage the controls on the road that Europe requires us to manage? Mr President, I would like to We know it's a wild west out there from time to time, and we know that a lot of stolen goods are leaving the country. Much of this crime is happening right on the road, and we know that heavy crime is involved. We also know that we are losing a lot of tax revenue because we are unable to take those who ignore taxes and regulations and drive outside the system. There are estimates showing that this could be 3 - 4 billion in tax losses, and this should make it more interesting to tighten this up to slow progress. Mr President, I would like to I wonder what they're going to do now. Both I and the Minister know that the problem exists, and I want even more concrete answers. They're worried out there, and the minister's coming with the answer.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-468	Mr President, I would like to I think it is 20 years since the liberal debater Fukuyama wrote that history has ended. Sten Bergheden now makes a reversed Fukuyama statement and says that the story begins here and now, and nothing has happened before this day. Sten Bergheden is worried that traffic police are retiring, and so am I. I've been worried about it for a long time and now I'm getting a little perplexed. What initiatives were taken during the eight years when Sten Bergheden was responsible for this, when his party colleagues were Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Minister of Transport and Minister of Justice? Why isn't there a forest of traffic police to put in where they're needed? Why has there not been further training? Sten Bergheden says there are regulatory letters. Yes, why was there nothing in the eight letters of regulation that were written when you were in power? Sten Bergheden says that there is no extra money for the police in the budget. No, it's because me and Sten Bergheden have the same budget, on the crown, for this business. We had it these years, too. The truth is that Sten Bergheden's party did nothing for this activity for eight years except the last time when it was forced by the opposition. I was on the Transport Committee together with Sten Bergheden, and he was even chairman of the group who said in 2012 that there were problems with the traffic police's skills provision. Then there were two years left of the bourgeois reign. So there was plenty of time to write regulatory letters and budgets and to come up with changes and concrete measures. But what happened, Sten Bergheden? The blade looks shiny. The story begins here and now. We can pretend that the previous government did not exist. But then I still have some good news. Now we have commissioned the police to come back with experience of the clamping so that we can get a classing for real and so that you can not drive away after 24 hours when the klamp was unlocked, which was the effect of the bourgeois law. Just a few days ago, the police came back with an overall action plan aimed at securing skills and increasing the efficiency of traffic police operations. Although there may be some harsh words in the speaker's chair, the House can be absolutely convinced that I and Sten Bergheden are in fact in agreement on the basic issue. We need better traffic police operations on the roads aimed at heavy traffic. We need more car inspectors and police officers who have the knowledge and experience to do the heavy controls. It is not possible to compare with the skills required to perform an alcohol breath test or a speeding check. It takes both knowledge and experience to cope with these controls. The House can also be sure that I regularly follow up on this issue in discussion with the Poli Authority. But I also have respect for the constitutional conditions. It is the Poli Authority itself that chooses how to organize the work. It shall not be organised from the Government Office or the Speakers' Chair of the Riksdag.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-476	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. The investigation was completed in 2012, and then an extension was put in place on how to introduce this. We came to the conclusion that there was a shortage of traffic police. This has been known to the police since 2012, and one should of course have started working on it. Another part was that we introduced squabbling for a maximum of 24 hours because it would be quick and easy for the police to stoop without using higher law to do this. In that election campaign, the minister went out and said that the clamping would be real, just as the minister said here, and it would be longer than 24 hours. I share that view. We've said that we'd be happy to go along with it for more than 24 hours. I want you to walk until the crime is resolved. But the remarkable thing is that, according to the Minister, before the elections, what was possible to do immediately now takes over three years to deliver. Now, an investigation has been set up that you should be able to trample for more than 24 hours. It shall be reported on 1 May 2017. It is still quite passive, given that before the elections, such a thing as this would be so easy to do should not have to take three years. Mr President, I would like to I also believe that we agree on the objective. The only question is what the road is going to look like. I feel that the Minister has put the whole responsibility on the police to solve this. There is no will, either in regulatory letters or in budgets, to point out clearly that we actually need to invest in this, which I think is absolutely necessary if we are to put an end to this. I also think it is a good deal for Sweden if we can eliminate crime on the roads. I know that the Minister has also set up an investigation to review the inspection intervals for our cars. There is also a suggestion that we should increase the time between the various inspections. Reference is made to the fact that, to some extent, checks can be carried out on the road instead. My question to the Minister then is: how will we manage to put additional controls on the road to cope with the cars that roll with longer inspection intervals? Can we do it with the current police force, or must we expand further because of this? Additional activities are being deployed without providing new resources. It would be good to have a comment on how you look at putting additional pressure on the police. Another part of this, to which I do not think I was given a clear answer, is whether we will be able to meet the EU's requirements for roadside checks. I understand the situation now, but this is still the long-term part, and then we have to cope with more heavy controls that really dig into the cars and get to the rough part. Can the Minister promise that we will have more controls? We both saw the section of the Mission review that pointed to a decrease in the number of controls. We agree on the objective, and then we have to get the number of checks out there. Will the Minister take any steps to press for us to actually have more checks on our roads? What happens to the inspection interval if we need more police officers out there, will we meet the EU's requirements and will we reverse the bad trend that Mission Review pointed out?
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-484	Mr President, I would like to I'll answer the questions first. Yeah, you can do that. We will live up to the requirements. I do not think there will be a significant workload on the police because of the increased inspection interval on passenger cars. The background to the expansion, which is an adaptation to almost all other countries in the developed world, is that the quality of vehicles has increased dramatically. There are, quite simply, far fewer vehicle failures now than before. Then you should not put an unnecessary burden on the motorists in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to I just want to put on the record of the House that it was in 1992 that Francis Fukuyama wrote that the story had ended. So it was 23 years ago and nothing else. I note that Sten Bergheden is still asking about the Social Democratic budget. It is good that he reads that budget, but would it not be good to put the moderate budget next to it and see that there are the same figures in the columns and that there is nothing in the moderate draft budget on the traffic police? It is still a product that Sten Bergheden himself will have signed. This means that Sten Bergheden does not think that there should be any more money spent on the traffic police. At least that was the draft budget he voted for in this House. He does not seem to think that further efforts are needed. It might have been nice to start with your own budget before you start criticising the budgets of other parties. Mr President, I would like to We have taken a number of other initiatives. A completely new report was presented, as I said today, on how the police should organise traffic police operations. I guess we'll just have to sit down and analyze it. I'm sure Sten Bergheden will. We will see if there is an opportunity to propose improvements and proposals in it. Another gratifying thing about the fact that we have a new government is that instead of going to the EU and joining Eastern Europe in liberalising conditions, having less legislation, liberalising and having a free market in transport, which was the policy of the previous government in the European Union, ministers are now going down to the European Union together with the progressive forces. We say that we should have good regulation and that we should live up to high social conditions. With some luck, Sten Bergheden, the change of government can lead to us getting cabotage directives, a combined directive that it is possible to police control on our roads. The legislation is now so overlapping and complex that it takes a great deal, even of the highly trained traffic police, to be able to sort out whether a tow truck and trailer should be covered by the cabotage directive, by the combined directive or by the other legislation. That's not good. An important part of freeing up more resources is getting better regulation in place in the EU. Unfortunately, the previous government was completely incapable of pushing it in the right direction.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-491	Mr President, I would like to I repeat a question about the clamping that I asked at the beginning. It would nevertheless be possible to do so without delay. I have heard the Minister say in various debates and discussions that it would be an easy thing to do. Why does it take three years in government to figure out how to trample longer than 24 hours? It was so easy before the election. This will be reported in May 2017. After that, we have a preparation before it is presented for decision. This means that virtually the whole of this term of office goes before the government has got to grips in longer than 24 hours in place, even though it was very easy before the elections. It would be nice to have a little comment from the Minister on why it is taking so long right now. It is also extremely important to bear in mind that we have agreed on the measures, on giving the police squeezing opportunities, on transport documents in cars and on penalties. We have clearly stepped up on the issues. The problem is that we have now given the police the tools, but on the roads there are no police officers to do the job on the road. They were the ones who were going to use this to overcome the problem. I think there is a cross-block interest. In the Committee on Transport and Tourism, we have agreed on these issues, to put even more effort into trying to improve the traffic police, to get illegal traffic off our roads and to have fair competition. We would be happy to extend our hand in this work.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-495	Mr President, I would like to I'm about to stop nagging about Francis Fukuyama and his book The End of History and the Last Man. But it is clear that Sten Bergheden is the modern, inverted Fukuyama, but without book. Sten Bergheden says we have now given the police the tools, but on the roads there are no police officers to do the job on the roads. What kind of statement is that? We have 28,000 police employees. Some of them are car inspectors. With 20,000 cops, it's clear there's cops on the road. Who else has trampled the trucks with the new legislation? Is it Christmas goons who've been walking the cars? Of course there are cops. And we're gonna make sure there's enough cops to keep the roads in order. It's true that I want longer clapping. It is true that the government wants to have more clapping. It is also true that the moderate government was unable to deliver it. Therefore, there was a lack of preparation data. That is why, unfortunately, we must have this long process. That is why, unlike the moderate-led government, we are going to put forward proposals for classing for real.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-498	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Oscarsson has asked me if I intend to take the initiative to reinstate the emergency services. I have recently answered similar questions from Roger Haddad and Allan Widman. As Mikael Oscarsson has stated, the emergency police organization was introduced in 1986. The organisation's tasks changed over the years. According to the regulations in force from January 2009, emergency police officers would be called in under increased preparedness or when the government decided on emergency service under the Total Defence Obligations Act. Contingency officers who have entered into an agreement with the National Police Board may also be called in in the event of serious or extensive disturbances to society from the point of view of order or safety and at the risk of such disturbances. The basic task of the emergency police was to participate in police activities related to population protection or civil protection. They were also allowed to carry out surveillance tasks, access protection and transport. Emergency police officers who participated in police activities due to disturbances in society from the point of view of order or security could not be used in situations or for tasks where there was a real risk that they might use violence against individuals. The emergency police were dismantled in 2012 after the National Police Board stated that the organisation was no longer needed. The budget proposal for the same year states that decommissioning does not prevent the government from re-establishing the organisation, if necessary, in case of increased preparedness or following a decision on emergency service. As I have indicated in my replies to the written questions from Roger Haddad and Allan Widman, a number of questions need to be answered when considering the possible reintroduction of the emergency services. A fundamental question is what needs should be met and whether this need should be met through a resource of the type of emergency police. In addition, you need to take a position on things such as organisation, recruitment, training, exercise, equipment and funding. Against this background, it is not realistic to believe that it would be possible to quickly reinstate the emergency services. The needs of the police are fundamental to the issue of the reintroduction of the emergency services. The government continuously follows questions about society's preparedness for serious or extensive disruptions. At present, I do not believe that conditions are such that work should be initiated on the reintroduction of emergency police for situations of such disturbances. The question of whether there is a need for the emergency police in case of increased preparedness or when the government has decided on emergency service in accordance with the Total Defence Obligation Act may be analysed on the basis of the resumed work with the total defence.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-505	Mr President, I would like to Ellen Juntti has asked me how I will prevent gang crime, shootings and other acts of violence with fewer police officers. Ellen Juntti has also asked me how ordinary citizens can feel safe in vulnerable areas if the police are not able to be in place where crimes are committed. Sweden should be a safe country to live in for all citizens. Reducing crime and increasing people's security is the aim of the government's criminal policy, and a strong and functioning judiciary is a prerequisite for a secure society. In this work, the Police Authority has an important role to play. One of the most important starting points in the reform of the police is to implement what Ellen Juntti wants, namely to strengthen the police's local presence and accessibility. When it comes to police close to citizens, the Government has commissioned the Police Authority to report on the ongoing implementation of the reform. I am closely following this work to make sure that the intentions of the transformation are met. Ten days ago, together with the Minister for Justice and Migration, I presented the government's overall response to organised crime. We then presented several measures that will give the Police Authority even better opportunities to deal with the problems that Ellen Juntti describes. For example, I can mention the government's mission to the Police Authority and eleven other authorities to develop the agency's joint effort against organised crime. Within the framework of the initiative, the authorities will now expand the organisation to include collaboration at local level. Particular focus shall be placed on organised crime in particularly vulnerable areas. Another recent decision by the government is a mission to the Police Authority to create the conditions to further counteract the presence of illegal weapons and explosives within the country. The police authority shall identify, develop and disseminate effective working methods to prevent, among other things, shootings in public places. In addition, in order to reduce the number of illegal weapons in the country, the government intends to implement a new arms amnesty during the latter part of its term of office. The government has therefore taken several steps to give the authorities further opportunities to combat illegal weapons, shootings and organised crime. The government has also stressed the importance of working against organised crime in particularly vulnerable areas.
i-XftpPmZ9B7sQ6k9mm2YRXN	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I've put this interpellation on more police officers in vulnerable areas because the developments in alienation areas are going the wrong way. I'm very worried about that development. We in the Alliance Government invested a great deal in the judiciary, and that has also produced results. Crime is decreasing, but unfortunately not in the affected areas, especially in view of the shootings. The Alliance wanted there to be at least 20 000 police officers in Sweden. In the 2016 budget, we are investing money to train another 1 000 police officers. The Swedish National Police Board reported in 2014 that there are 55 different areas in Sweden where criminals control society quite a lot, and that is totally unacceptable. In these areas, the shootings alternate. If it's a week without a shooting, I'm almost surprised. These are criminal gang deals. Most of the time it is drugs, and violence takes place in broad daylight. In 2014 there were 365 shootings according to information from Brå, i.e. one shooting per day. That is totally unacceptable. People living in these areas hardly dare to go out. We can't have that. There has to be a change. A lot of cops have said this isn't gonna last. They don't have enough resources. Among other things, a police chief in Gothenburg, Erik Nord, has stated in an article: The police are unable to maintain order because it is simply too few police officers. Many times it is criminals who govern and set the rules in these areas. It has gone so far that the criminal gangs basically think that the police should ask permission for them to come to certain areas. Then it's gone way too far. When policemen visit these areas and get out of the car, the car is broken when they get back to it. These areas must be withdrawn. I welcome the Government's proposal that you presented just over a week ago. These are many issues that we Moderates have been pursuing, including tightening up illegal weapons and facilitating the exchange of information between authorities. We also want to extend the possibilities of confiscation. All these proposals are good, but there are also other proposals. The government has removed the minimum requirement of 20,000 police officers from its budget. We think Moderates are very bad. As we see it, there is a great risk that the number of police officers will reduce. The cops are already too few. So we don't need fewer, we need more. When the government presented proposals to tighten up the fight against organised crime, the National Police Commissioner also said that at least 1 000 new police officers are needed. Then my question to the Government is: why do you remove the demand for 20,000 police officers? Can't you see there's a risk that there'll be fewer cops? If so, how can you fight crime? As far as the proposals you presented are concerned, when are the sharp proposals coming?
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-523	Mr President, I would like to First, on target 20,000 police officers, it's a bad command signal. No other authority is governed by quantitative targets for different professions. There are many good ways to control the police, but a quantitative target for a professional category in the police is not a good way. Let me just say that there has never been more financial resources spent on the police. There have been no more police officers in Sweden for 35 or 40 years. There have probably never been more police officers involved in criminal investigation. Unfortunately, as Ellen Juntti said, the Moderates have not invested in the budget of 1,000 new police officers. You have invested SEK 15 million more than the government. The attentive listener of the debate probably knows that the police budget is at quite different levels. If you're going to get 1,000 new police officers for 15 million crowns, there will be very poorly paid police officers. You're building an air castle. You're going to increase your education a little. But you don't even know what the level of education is, how many are to be trained. You have only chosen something that sounds good and then you have pretended to finance it. I note once again that we have a police reform on which we agree. It will bring more police officers closer to the citizens. The reform is now starting to produce results. As I told you in a previous interpellation response, we have decided on a new police station in Rinkeby with over 200 employees. We make investments in Gothenburg and Malmö. The police are gathering and focusing on the 14 most socially vulnerable areas a. There are more police employees today, and more money is being invested in the police than in some year that the Moderates ruled Sweden. Let us also talk about the background to crime and not just about repressive measures. I understand from Ellen Juntti that she welcomes the proposals we have made in the area of repression. The proposals are good, but they are not enough. If we are to reverse the trend in crime, we must also tackle the causes of crime and the breeding ground for crime. During the time that the Moderates ruled, gaps increased, unemployment rose and school results declined. Then one cannot be surprised that crime is increasing in the most socially vulnerable areas. That is why we are going to take the repressive measures. We're going to tighten the penalties for gun crimes. We're going to reduce confidentiality. But we must also reverse social development in vulnerable areas. We have to make sure people have a job to go to. We must ensure that the children receive a sensible education. We must ensure that the gaps are reduced. Unfortunately, the Moderates are pursuing a policy that risks giving the opposite result. It is the result that was inherited after eight years with a moderate government.
i-DLtkdG7xRTftzp9rshKFoi	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. That it would be bad governance to have a ceiling of 20,000 police officers do not I think, so we disagree. The government says there are more cops now. Yeah, but I'm worried there'll be fewer when you remove this target. But the Minister forgot to say that there have never been as many citizens in Sweden as now. As far as the number of police officers per citizen is concerned, even fewer, I think I read in a police magazine a long time ago. During the autumn there has been a great dissatisfaction among the police. They have been dissatisfied with the deterioration of working conditions. The reorganisation has also caused confusion. Then they are also dissatisfied with the salary. After seven years of service, it is about $5,000. The Moderates here in Parliament have received 2,870 letters, and we have read all of them. I'm going to read a letter. A police officer writes: We who work in external service are becoming fewer and fewer in terms of the population. Alarms are getting more and more. Not only are we getting fewer, we also get more jobs. There are more and more weapons. Crimes get worse and worse. The places that in society are no go zones are becoming more and more because of too few police officers. I got the police magazine yesterday. It also contains quotations from this letter harvest. A middle chief of the police says: I'm pushing my patrols to work faster, eat in less time, work over and over again. Every time I manage to get a patrol to my errands, I push out and hope that the next phone call will not mean that I have to reprioritize my patrol once again. Colleagues are becoming more and more disillusioned, stressed and tired, and frustration is hampering drive and commitment to the profession. This is pretty dangerous. The government knows that I myself have been a police officer for 30 years. It's a very stressful and heavy job. It takes on your strength when you're always working on the back of society. It affects you as a human being. It is very disturbing when you lose inspiration and drive in the profession. You have a lot to do with people. As I said, it is important to ensure that there are enough police officers, so that you can cope with the job. As I said earlier, we welcome the proposals presented by the government. But there must also be police officers doing what is proposed. What's it gonna do to make a lot of nice suggestions if there aren't cops doing this? Judging by these letters, it is clear that there are not too many policemen but too few. Then my question to the Government is: how will all these new proposals be implemented if there are not enough police officers, which is not there today either?
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-540	Mr President, I would like to This year we have the number of police officers that the Moderates thought it was appropriate to have this year. It takes two and a half years to train a cop. We have exactly the police number that Ellen Juntti thought was optimal for 2015. It is she who has decided how large the number should be. And there hasn't been a penny more for the police in the Moderate budget. We have more police officers and more police employees today than during some year when the Moderates ruled Sweden. We still need to talk about police control. We're spending more money on the police, and we've got more cops. However, setting a numerical target for a professional category in the police force is not a good control signal. Ellen Juntti thinks it's a good control signal. Then I have to ask Ellen Juntti: if it is a good signal to the authorities to set figures for different categories of staff, why have we not done so for any of the other authorities? Sweden has 343 authorities. It's a legacy from the alliance period. I see Sten Bergheden laughs at the number. For 342 of those authorities, Ellen Juntti does not propose a target for any category of staff. But for the 343rd Authority, we're going to have a target for a category. Why is poor governance according to the Moderates of 342 agencies a good control signal for the 343rd agency?
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-542	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. Yeah, why? Now that we have had the target of at least 20 000 police officers, it has actually been effective. More police are being trained. Precisely because we have had this goal, more police officers have been trained. O ch there have never been more police before in Sweden than it is now, so it has actually had an effect. Then let us not forget that the population has grown very much, as I said before, so there are no more police officers compared to the number of citizens. The government is talking about social divides. It is often very young people who engage in gang crime. They've started crime long before they're 15 years old. In 2010, the Alliance Government amended the Act on Young Lawbreakers. We wanted more crimes where the offender was under 15 years of age to be investigated, including all serious crimes. We did it because we simply wanted clear and early efforts to stop crime, so that the young offenders would not get caught in it. Brå has carried out an evaluation, and it has turned out that there have been more investigations, but not as many as was hoped for. Not even all serious crimes are investigated. We think it is very important to investigate more crimes in order to stop the crime. If you stay in crime, it will only get worse and worse, and especially in these areas there may be serious gang crime.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-546	I would also like to take this opportunity to thank you for the debate.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-547	Mr President, I would like to I will honestly admit that I did not understand the last question. It goes without saying that all crimes should be investigated. But when the suspect is not a criminal, it is not certain that a police investigation is the most effective way. I note that I did not receive an answer as to why the other 342 authorities would not be well off from having numerical staff category targets. We have a huge shortage of teachers. If this were such an effective measure to get more teachers, could it not be an idea to tell Jan Björklund about setting such a goal? The truth is that the goal means nothing. It is what resources you are prepared to set aside and what measures you are prepared to take that will determine whether you will succeed. It is not the quantified target of 20 000 police officers that makes it over 20 000 police officers, but that the Alliance government was actually prepared to provide resources for hiring and training police officers. Despite the fact that we have now removed the case, there are still more police officers than when we had the case – a bit over 20,000. But if police chiefs were to say that it is better that we, for example, raise the salary of police officers in the contract movement, hire car inspectors – as Sten Bergheden said in the previous debate – or hire qualified fraud investigators instead of police officers, then the decision will be decided by the Police Authority. We will make sufficient resources available, and the police will take the operational decisions. Let the cops be cops. Let the profession take responsibility for this. Then we will have a better development in the future. I would like to take this opportunity to thank Ellen Juntti for the debate and wish him a Merry Christmas.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-552	Mr President, I would like to Mathias Sundin has asked me whether I will initiate a change in legislation and regulations to meet the development of self-driving cars. The use of smart mobility is on a strong trend all over the world. Connected and fully or partially automatic vehicles are also, in my opinion, important in order to achieve our high environmental, road safety and accessibility goals. However, there is a risk that a high proportion of self-driving vehicles in the vehicle fleet may lead to increased driving. This can be partly countered by, for example, the use of C-ITS, but economic instruments may also be needed. The technology now being developed can revolutionise the possibilities of combining transport and the use of vehicles in a smart way. I am therefore following developments with great interest, both within and outside the country, in connection with connected and self-driving vehicles. Both the global rules within the UN and the EU as well as Swedish regulations assume that there is a physical driver responsible for driving. The more advanced technology becomes, the more questions arise about the regulation of vehicle technology, competences, responsibilities and traffic. Sweden works within UN working groups and within the EU to develop regulations that enable autonomous driving and advanced driver support technologies. With regard to regulatory changes and liability issues, we are working closely with like-minded countries within the EU. The European Commission also created a platform for C-ITS last year. Sweden, in cooperation with the Swedish industry, is very active in this work, where the link between autonomous vehicles and interacting ITS is part of it. Although the Swedish regulations are relatively acceptable in terms of advanced driver support, we must take up height for the future development of connected and driverless vehicles. The Government has now set up an investigation that will quickly analyse the possibilities for regulatory changes to facilitate trials and analyse the need to adapt the regulations for a future introduction of autonomous vehicles.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-556	Madam President, I would like I have written an interpellation entitled Full speed for self-driving cars. It seems like you can't have question marks in the headlines, but it's supposed to be. Or maybe in these Christmas times it could be called Who's the one who's driving? Madam President, I would like Of course, it would be very good to have an innovation that could save over 1 million lives a year, significantly reduce environmentally hazardous emissions, free up large land areas in cities, remove traffic queues and spa ror many billions of tax dollars. This innovation already exists and is entering our lives, probably earlier than many believe. Of course, I am talking about self-driving cars. Volvo has the Drive Me project together with the Municipality of Gothenburg and several Swedish authorities. They already have some cars out on the roads in Gothenburg, but the goal is to have 100 self-driving cars out with ordinary customers in Gothenburg already 2017, just a little over a year away. When these self-driving cars become more common in our society, I think they can have a big impact on many different areas. Perhaps the greatest effect will be precisely in the area of road safety. Maybe the idea of getting in a self-driving car and letting the computer control is kind of scary. Many have testified that it was scary to ride in such a car for the first time. But you get used to it quickly, and the cars that roll so far seem to be considerably more skilled at driving than people are. Google's cars have driven over 200,000 miles in the last six years-- that's about 50 laps around the world-- and not caused a single traffic accident. In Sweden, just under 300 people die in traffic per year. It has fallen for many years, but it is still a high figure. For the whole world, however, the figure is extreme: it is over 1 million people per year who die in road accidents and millions who are injured. By way of comparison, some 170 000 people died in military conflicts last year. Basically, this development is positive if it continues as it has been until now. Then it is very important that politics does not set the hook for development. When it comes to testing, Sweden seems to have a very permissive and liberal regulatory framework. In the long term, when this is to be implemented on a larger scale, many laws and regulations may need to be changed, but it is a few years away and is nothing urgent. What is more urgent is precisely the responsibility of an accident. Today, our practice is based on the fact that there is a natural person to prosecute in a traffic accident if something is not right. But who is responsible if a self-driving car crashes? If a driver is in the car and has pressed the button, it is unreasonable for that person to be prosecuted. I'm sure everyone thinks so. It is quite urgent if you are to be able to continue with the Drive Me project, and it is very positive that the government is on the ball. The minister mentioned an investigation here. How soon will it be ready?
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-565	Madam President, I would like It is indeed an exciting development in this area. Just as Mathias Sundin says, it offers unimagined opportunities. I think, however, that one should be a little careful to draw far-reaching conclusions about what this technology will mean. The really big effects in terms of increased capacity use, i.e. that you can have shorter distances, narrower files and so on, can only come when virtually all cars are self-driving. The big challenge when technology eventually becomes available to ordinary consumers is to find how these vehicles should interact with ordinary driver-controlled vehicles in a satisfactory way. The project that is now being prepared in Gothenburg, which is actually the first of its kind in the world – it is extremely fun that Swedish being so far at the forefront – also requires the participation of authorities, as is happening. The study in the section will make its proposal on 1 April next year, i.e. in good time for the pilot project to start in 2017. At the end of November 2017, the investigation will then submit its final report in the other parts. There are many things that need to be investigated in connection with the development of technology. These are standardisation issues, so as to ensure that cars from different countries and manufacturers can communicate with each other and with the intelligent infrastructure that can be assumed will be developed. These are matters of responsibility, which the interpeller has already touched upon. It is also about how to build urban environments with the new conditions and about many other things that will require regulatory changes and also make demands on how we behave in traffic. Overall, this is an exciting development with great and positive opportunities but also a lot of challenges along the way. The investigation that the government has now set up, I hope, will at least give a start when it comes to improving the regulatory framework or taking the first steps towards a modern regulatory framework. It is also important to stress that, in several areas, the ambition is now that the existing rules should be less detailed in terms of technical requirements and that they should focus more on what they want to achieve with the regulations, i.e. road safety, clearer responsibilities, vehicle requirements or what they might be. In this kind of work, where it is a matter of technology development that is extremely rapid and difficult to understand, I think it is important not to lock down the regulations of existing technology, but to have a regulatory framework that is consistent with technological development, but at the same time very clearly does not compromise requirements on, for example, safe vehicles, responsibility for vehicle design and road safety.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-572	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. That was very positive news, I think. Let me ask you a little more about the investigation. Are you just looking at the issue of liability linked to road accidents, or is there more in the investigation that will come on April 1st? I think it is a good focus to try to make it as technology neutral as possible. Politics is moving at its pace, and even when you are at a high speed, there are many things that are taken into account in various investigations. M an should be able to respond to referrals and other things that need to be done in a democracy. Then it may simply be difficult to keep up with developments. Making it as technology neutral as possible is therefore, I think, very good. There will be a lot of exciting challenges ahead, especially when it comes to synchronising the old and the new systems. But there are many great advantages to it. One that I did not mention is that opportunities can be seen for people with disabilities. Today, some people with disabilities can drive a car, but it is expensive to adapt the cars. For those who cannot drive, it is a restriction in their lives not being able to transport themselves in that way. However, this type of car can make driving accessible to more people, which is a very positive thing and a development of freedom for those people. Then, of course, there are the environmental aspects. If these cars become safer and do not crash so often, you may not have to make such large and heavy cars that emit large quantities of environmentally hazardous emissions. There are many positive effects that can be achieved. Let me come back to my questions. Is the upcoming investigation more relevant than personal responsibility? How does the Minister feel that other countries in the EU and the UN, where Sweden works, look at this – are there any clear opposition pockets? It is easy that such a debate is moving in the wrong direction, so that you make it feel like these cars are dangerous, but so far the debate in Sweden has not been so. That's a good thing. But it may have flared up in other countries. What is the debate and work in the other EU countries?
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-577	Madam President, I would like I believe that the potential of new technologies should be highlighted. All new technologies involve both risks and opportunities. An unwise approach is to try to stop new technologies while a wise approach is to ensure that the new technologies just develop the opportunities associated with them and that rules, design and other things minimise the risks associated with them. This is also how we relate to this technological development. Other environmental benefits can also be envisaged. It's about ecodriving, which some of us may be good at but which quite a few have a certain development potential within. It's about choosing the time for a journey to start, route optimization, opting out of very busy sections and so on. There is therefore great potential for more efficient transport systems when you imagine that the car not only drives itself but also interacts with its surroundings. It offers additional opportunities. As far as road safety in the world is concerned, one cannot wait for this very newly hatched one to say – and of course for the foreseeable time quite expensive technology will be available. The biggest negative developments in road accidents and road safety are, of course, taking place in developing countries, where not least relatively light vehicles, such as mopeds, are involved in a fairly large proportion of accidents involving personal injuries. There, other types of action need to be taken in parallel. It will be a long time before this technology solves those problems for us. The investigation commission includes a number of different questions. It is about vehicles and vehicle technology. It's about infrastructure. It's about traffic regulations. It is about driving vehicles and driving licences. It is a question of responsibility when driving such vehicles. These are issues of privacy and data security. And at the end, there will be other issues that the investigation identifies as relevant. I think it is one of those areas in which you can actually think of things during the journey that you need to shed some light on. The investigation mission in relation to the experimental activities is not specified in that part, but all these parts are included. However, the assignment must be reported so early that it involves defining the assignment to identify any changes required for the trial to be conducted in a good and lawful manner. In this situation, there is probably a risk, on the one hand, that one has very high hopes that this will be revolutionary in the very short term and, on the other hand, a risk of delaying the positive effects that development can have. I believe that we need to have such a rapid approach that we are opening the way for these opportunities to be exploited as quickly as possible and, at the same time, an understanding that the driver-controlled vehicles will be dominant in the traffic picture for the foreseeable future. This is something that needs to be taken into account in these developments.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-583	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Infrastructure for the answers, not least for the content of the answers. I think it sounds very positive. We have a consensus that this is a good development, and the government is on the ball. Then I just want to wish you Merry Christmas and say: Drive home safe!
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-585	Madam President, I would like I thank you for the interpellation and the opportunity to discuss this very exciting, interesting and truly future-oriented subject. I wish the honourable Member a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. I'm not driving home. On the other hand, I'm going to take a train very safely.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-587	Madam President, I would like Penilla Gunther has asked me on whose behalf the Swedish Transport Administration has acted not to pay out the operating grant or to recover the grant from those who received it and for what reason. Let me first stress that I share Penilla Gunthers's view that regional airports play an important role in terms of transport opportunities for both business and private individuals. This is particularly true in those parts of the country that are sparsely populated, have long transport distances and where alternative transport opportunities are limited.
i-QjpNvErWBDUFEXcB3o8Hq2	Since 1 February 2015, State compensation under these two Regulations can only be granted to non-State airports where a service of general economic interest is carried out in accordance with EU rules on aid in the form of compensation for services of general economic interest. Within the Government Office, work is under way to review the need for further changes to the above-mentioned regulations. It is the Swedish Transport Administration that has the task of managing the payments of the regular compensations to non-governmental airports according to the regulations I mentioned earlier. The task is also to control the payment of State aid to non-State airports in accordance with EU State aid rules in the form of compensation for services of general economic interest.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-589	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, which was not as clear as I would have liked. I received much more information during the day that was organized yesterday by the organisation Svenska Regional Airports. There we received information both from Brussels and from the SKL on how to deal with this, not least with SGEI criteria, as the Government has mentioned. These are services of general economic interest and so on. Unfortunately, the question remains with the Government. This is a strange approach, it has to be said, in many different ways. Last year at this time the Finnish Transport Administration had come up with a fairly detailed investigation into this. One would think that there would now be peace and quiet for regional airports, which had already been the subject of previous concerns by the European Commission in relation to these things – but not. It's almost Christmas. It's almost a new year. Each company, regardless of its size, wants to keep its finances in order at the end of the year in order to be able to make a sound financial statement. Let us say that there is a liquidity shortage, which many have at the end of the year before they have received all the money from invoices and so on. It is clear that it will be even more difficult if you also have activities that consist of quite a lot of staff. And it's about operating costs in general. Regional airports have not received their money. Then one might wonder: How is it possible that in December 2015 they have not received their contribution, even though they have had so much time to think about whether or not it is in line with the criteria? In addition, contacts with Brussels, with the European Commission or with SKL, whose owners are regions and municipalities in this case, should reasonably have signalled. How would it have been if you had had the government, like Swedavia? With Swedavia's surplus of over SEK 1 billion, this could already be financed by regional airports. Now we do not have that order in Sweden, but that is the deficiency. The profitable airports are located in a single company, the state, while the regional airports are to contend with these criteria, with an exceptionally difficult authority, the Finnish Transport Agency, and also a department that does not seem to be very capable of action. The question remains: how is it possible that this is the case for these companies, which in many cases are quite small? The Government itself has been a municipal politician. She knows that as a city councillor you may not always be very familiar with each company, nor with the handling of an airport company. What, then, is it to get a proposition that the airport company must receive money from the municipality or region because the state does not pay subsidies on time? The question remains. I look forward to a new answer.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-596	Madam President, I would like Both Trafikverket and others estimate that the problems that have been in 2015 are of a transitory nature. The reason why they have arisen is that one type of regulation has gone from one type of regulation to another. The EU has changed its regulatory framework for aid to non-governmental airports, and the new regulatory framework is now being implemented in Sweden. This means, among other things, that the owner of these regional airports needs to provide an SG E I mission, i.e. that it is made clear that this is an airport which operates services of a general nature and can therefore be eligible for State aid. It should also be borne in mind that, regardless of whether the state, municipality or region supports a company, the same EU legislation and regulations apply to public support. It does not really matter whether the money comes from the municipal, state or regional treasury. This means that there is no solution that says you can go in and cover up from region or municipality, and so it solves itself. The problem here is that if an airport receives undue aid, that is to say if it receives undue State aid because it does not meet the criteria for receiving State aid, then it is not the State, that is, the Finnish Transport Administration in this case, which is affected without the beneficiary of the aid and then becomes liable for repayment. Therefore, it has been very important to ensure that regional airports have a clearly stated SGEI mission that allows for the payment of State aid. This is an exercise of authority that lies entirely under the Swedish Transport Administration, and how one has acted in different cases, therefore, I cannot answer. However, I have received very clear signals both from Trafikverket and from individual airports that the cooperation that is now established between SKL, Trafikverket and individual airport owners or airports is working well. Everything suggests that the regulatory framework that is now in a reshuffle phase, one might say, will work better from next year. There is no ambition on the part of the state to withdraw from this responsibility or to reduce aid, but what it is about is a change of rules where airports and airport owners have had different easy or difficult to show that they have adapted to these regulations.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-603	Madam President, I would like There is no doubt that it is very important that our regional airports know how to formulate themselves so that they can meet these criteria. No one has opposed this – on the contrary. However, it could be nice if the responsible authority and department could give some guidance as early as the beginning of the year. Now there are a number of airports that have had, and still have, very tough. I met with representatives of several of them yesterday. As I said, we are now almost at the end of December. We know that Sweden basically stops the night before Christmas Eve. What about this now? Will the Finnish Transport Administration really pay out the aid they think can be paid out? We have a couple of airports that have been hit by the fact that they got money. Then they'd pay back money, and now they'll get the money again. However, since the Government is responsible for the Authority, I wonder about the Government's position on this. It cannot be entirely acceptable for an authority to treat those for whom it is responsible, in this case regional airports, in this way when it comes to public funds. We both know that the municipalities really have no interest in spending money on infrastructure if, at the same time, we are struggling with other tasks at the moment where the need is urgent and we also know that money should come from the state. There is an educational dilemma, quite simply. We can also note that this sends a signal to many that regional airports do not fulfil the important role that the Government nevertheless suggests in its response to my interpellation. The representative of the Social Democratic Party of the Environment Party gave a very clear answer here last week in the debate on regional growth and stated that there is no need for a flight within Sweden. You can apparently get up to Luleå, Kiruna and Haparanda in a completely different way or wherever you want. But at least you shouldn't be able to come back and forth to Stockholm the same day. This is an important signal to Sweden and its population throughout the country, not least in the small municipalities. How can you have a functioning business environment if you don't have the confidence that we actually have an infrastructure where aviation is included? Often you don't. I have heard that there might be an aviation strategy. Then perhaps it would be good if the responsible authorities there too have people working on it. I can tell you that before I wrote the interpellation I tried to call the Swedish Transport Administration in Borlänge and ask who is responsible for aviation matters. The switchboard didn't know that. That's how unclear it is. You can hardly find anything on their website. So hidden is the responsibility for aviation issues in Sweden today, 2015. Should we have it that way? Should we be so unclear about whether regional aviation is important for Sweden, for growth and for development, and also get the answer in this House that we do not need a flight within the country's borders?
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-610	Madam President, I would like As Penilla Gunther probably knows, it was about a year ago that this government took office. To my knowledge, we have not decommissioned any former state airports and made them regional this year, and we have not made any major reorganisations in the field of air transport at the Finnish Transport Agency. Nor have we said anything that goes in the direction indicated by Penilla Gunther. The fact that individual Members express themselves in a way may represent them, but the government has very clearly stated that the transport policy objectives of good accessibility are valid throughout the country. In large parts of the country, this means that aviation is an extremely important resource for being able to transport with reasonable travel times not only to Stockholm. One must have that accessibility not least for northern Sweden. I would like to emphasise once again that it is not the case that state aid in the sense of the European Union only concerns state aid, for example, to a regional airport, but it is public aid, where we count all aid equally. What Penilla Gunther also suggests in her last speech, that the municipality would now go in and cover up because it does not receive state aid, is simply not true. Either these airports have qualified to qualify as a service of general economic interest, that is to say an S G EI airport, and then there is the possibility of receiving State aid. However, they have not qualified for this aid, which means that they will not be able to receive municipal aid without the risk of being liable for repayment. What has happened this year is not a political shift in the view of regional airports, and that is very well done by Penilla Gunther. What has happened is that the EU in 2014 changed its regulatory framework and that Sweden in 2015 makes a consequent change in how and on what grounds the state aid is to be paid and what airport owners need to do to ensure that you can receive that aid without the risk of repayment. Next year it is expected that this will work again, that the new regulatory framework has come into place in such a way that it can be managed and that this type of problem does not arise again. This is not a question of whether the State should continue to pay aid to airports that are in a position to receive that aid, but is a matter of a regulatory change that has caused some delays in the payments and a certain uncertainty as to whether all the airports in question have been eligible under all the existing rules. It has also in some cases been an issue of airports that have had to notify state aid, because certain thresholds have been reached and so on. The Government Office is currently preparing the case if further regulatory changes are required in the new regulations. This will be dealt with in the first months of next year. Otherwise, it is self-evident that it is the Swedish Transport Administration that must ensure that the exercise of public authority is carried out in a manner that is consistent with both Swedish legislation and the EU acquis.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-617	Madam President, I would like I have not said that the municipalities should provide financial support in the sense that they actually give it, but they may have to lend money. As the responsible owner of a company, a municipality or region may need to be able to resolve a liquidity shortage. If the Government does not have money in its wallet and goes shopping, then it is hardly possible to trade, unless she has a card with unlimited assets on it. But let's still stick to the cash. If there is no cash, there is a liquidity shortage. Many of the companies have been caught near or right in a cash shortage. Then the owner has to solve that flaw somehow. No one has opposed that the criteria should be met in the best possible way according to all the laws and regulations. That is not where the question lies. The question is about how not least the Swedish Transport Agency, the Ministry and the responsible Minister of State have handled this. The report from the Swedish Transport Administration came already in October November last year. Then there has been good time to gather representatives from regional airports and present how the solution can be written to meet the requirements in the best way, not least in consultation with SKL. There's still my question. Why have we not acted in the past and more clearly?
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-622	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with Penilla Gunther that it is unfortunate that several airports have ended up in a situation where there are difficulties with both liquidity and getting answers when they can get the conditions they need. There is now coordination in which SKL, Trafikverket and other stakeholders work together to clarify what requirements are imposed on airport owners and airports and what is needed to meet the requirements of the new regulations. It would have been good if that work had started earlier so that you didn't have to get into time. I definitely agree with Penilla Gunther on that analysis. The basic problem remains. It has been a matter of handling this year. I understand that it is attractive to make this appear to be anti-aircraft government policy in general. I can assure Penilla Gunther that there is no such shift in politics. The exact same amount of aid previously allocated to regional airports has been set aside this year and the next financial year. It is not a withdrawal of the State's interest to keep regional airports running. The flight strategy referred to has begun its work. It also includes the importance of regional airports and the role of aviation in future transport systems. We believe that aviation has an important and natural role, but it evolves as other modes of transport also become more efficient. It will not remove the need for regional well-functioning airports.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-626	Madam President, I would like Penilla Gunther has asked the Minister of Finance how a possible air tax will contribute to increased profitability of regional airports and domestic air traffic. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Let me first stress that I share Penilla Gunthers's view that regional airports play an important role in terms of transport opportunities for both business and private individuals. This is particularly true in those parts of the country that are sparsely populated, have long transport distances and where alternative transport opportunities are limited. The Government has appointed a special investigator to analyse and propose how a tax on air travel can be designed. The purpose of setting up a study is to review the possibilities for how a flight tax can contribute to achieving the environmental quality objective Limited climate impact. The structure of the tax will work together with the economic, transport and regional policy objectives on, among other things, jobs, accessibility and competitiveness in all parts of the country. The study will also present an impact assessment for Sweden's non-governmental regional airports and state airports. I am not in a position to account in advance for the effects on regional airports and air traffic within the country, when the assignment is not reported to the government until 30 November 2016.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-630	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I understand that we cannot precede an investigation that has just been set up. But I think the question is interesting. Why is a study on aviation tax being set up instead of ensuring that more environmentally friendly fuels and environmentally friendly management are developed at all? Now it is all the more fun to know that initiatives have been taken. We know that Karlstad Airport, a regional airport, has the first stationary biofuel plant. Swedavia announced in a press release last week that you are looking at all the land transports at their airports in terms of biofuels. Let me give you an example from the story of Norway. I am also active at the Nordic level. When the Norwegian Government adopted the Norwegian State Budget on 23 November, it was clear that a flight tax is not so important but rather to promote the transition to bio-based aviation fuel. The following solution has been chosen. Landing charges at Norwegian airports will be reduced by 25% for aircraft flying at least 25% renewable fuel. The intention is to control the system from 2018. The fee is to replace a 25 % obligation for the share of biofuels in aviation fuel. This is about domestic flights. There is already a carbon dioxide charge for flights within Norway. Nevertheless, this must somehow stimulate the idea of how we can do it in Sweden. In the previous interpellation debate, we noted that regional airports are important. We need a functioning domestic flight. The Government's colleague Damberg said at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs yesterday that, in terms of export strategy, he would have liked to have seen more foreign destinations with direct routes to Sweden, not only to the major airports but to more airports in our elongated country. I asked Mrs Damberg how to stimulate this. This issue is of great importance for the strategy that the government will present on sustainable entrepreneurship. A self-respecting company wants to work sustainably in all ways, socially, economically, environmentally and so on. The question of travel will be extremely important in the future. If we are going to make it back and forth quickly, not least to Stockholm over the day, and we live in the country, we should not attack a mode of transport with a tax instead of attacking what we want to get at with the tax. If we want it to be a better environmental impact, the development of biofuels must be the model.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-639	Madam President, I would like I think it is clear that this is not about either or. As the negotiations that have been going on in Paris this week have shown, the earth is facing a collapse, and it is clear that, as a modern, rich forerunner, we have to take great responsibility for turning the earth into more sustainable development. The transport sector in Sweden accounts for an unreasonably large proportion of both energy use and, in particular, the use of fossil fuels. It is clear that part of the change is about developing alternatives and stimulating the emergence of biofuels, electric power and other types of alternative fuels. But it is probably also a question of switching to modes of transport that are more energy efficient and of reducing overall the climate impact of the transport sector. After all, alternative fuels that are burned also give rise to CO2 emissions into the atmosphere. We have set a goal to have a fossil-independent vehicle fleet by 2030. Biofuels and other things are very important there. I think you need to look at places where the flight is perhaps the only but at least the best option. There, of course, the flight should be as little climate impact as possible. But sometimes there are also times when consumers need to be encouraged to choose a more sustainable way of travelling. It is not the case that all flights currently take place between places where there are no more sustainable alternatives. In the field of aviation but also in all other areas of society, in other words, we need to work with both carrots and whips, with new technologies, with restrictive legislation and with charges to do all we can to ensure that the transition that must take place as soon as possible but still without threatening the development of the other two sustainability objectives. This is what the aviation tax investigation should do – it should look at how to design a flight tax that has an impact on reducing the climate impact of aviation but does not contribute to negative impact on job or accessibility targets. These are the investigative directives that exist. I find it difficult to see why one is so afraid of a development that means that one may sometimes need to use other means of transport than air travel when they are better alternatives from a sustainability point of view.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-644	Madam President, I would like I share the view of the Government. I think we should have an effort to use all the environmentally friendly means of transport that go, absolutely. Take such a simple example as the fact that many parents drive their children to school instead of having to ride a bicycle, as some did when they were smaller — my own children, for example. Of course, you have to think about how to act in general and small. That is why I question a tax rather than tackling the basic problem and what we all want to improve. Environmentally friendly transport is important for Sweden and for the whole world. If we were to follow the Norwegian example and reduce landing charges, which have been decided upon at the meeting, we could also help the aviation industry to develop further environmental improvement solutions. We can see that last year the State's revenue from transport policy motivated compulsory charges for air transport was almost SEK 5 1⁄2 billion. If instead of these charges, of which landing charges and so on are the majority, a little bit can be changed to make sure that there are more biofuels and climate-smart alternatives even in the aviation industry, it is clear – I think – that it is important for Sweden. We spend millions on the development of the tourism and destination industry, but it doesn't matter if visitors can't get here or from here. Especially for visitors abroad from, not least to companies up in Norrland or elsewhere in the country where you have flights, this means an enormous amount. If you also have foreign owners or foreign managers and employees to visit the company from time to time, should they get on the train from Stockholm, Gothenburg or elsewhere? It'll take another four, six, eight, ten hours. In that case, I do not think that we will have so many companies with foreign owners left because they think it is a very bad idea to sit so many hours extra for a short visit to Sweden. We must also look at the context. Of course you can do an investigation of a flight tax. But the directive, which I quote in my interpellation, says this: The tax should encourage consumers to choose more environmentally friendly alternatives, which in turn leads to reduced emissions and less climate impact. ..................................................... In principle, writing in this way has already taken a stand, I mean. Then it's supposed to be a tax. You're not supposed to find the other options. Then I am concerned, and then my question remains there: does one so much want to have a flight tax instead of developing other methods?
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-652	Madam President, I would like No, as I have already said two or three times, this is not about making a proposal on how a flight tax could be designed instead of other measures. This is one of many measures that together contribute to reducing the negative environmental and climate impact of the transport sector – in this case aviation – while contributing to the transport policy and industrial policy objectives of more jobs, reduced unemployment, good accessibility throughout the country, better health and so on. All of those targets remain in place. The horror scenario painted in the speaker's chair – that one could no longer fly to parts of Sweden after the flight tax is investigated and that one would suddenly have to sit on the train for ten hours instead – is of course not the intention. Then we have not met the needs of job and development opportunities throughout the country and good transport opportunities, but then it is something else. Since those criteria are clearly set out in the investigative directives, such a proposal would not, of course, be made. There is much more to be done in the aviation sector than simply moving to biofuels. Biofuels are an important part, but at present they are so much more expensive that it is probably not realistic to believe in a major breakthrough in this area, at least not in the near future. But there have been very great improvements in the efficiency of aviation fuel in recent years, not least in the case of green approaches. How to plan routes, larger areas that are common airspace where you can choose the shortest route and so on will contribute further to it. I believe that we need to take action in many different areas, which, overall, will contribute to reducing the negative climate impact of aviation while maintaining opportunities for development and jobs throughout the country and good accessibility throughout the country. That's the answer. It is the directives that the investigation has received, and it is on those directives that the report will eventually be based.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-657	Madam President, I would like The Government may apologise, but I allow myself to doubt, not least because of the cooperation party of the Social Democrats. This is sad given that we need an environmentally friendly development of all modes of transport. Today, when the metro, commuter trains and long-distance trains have not worked in the Stockholm area, people choose to transport themselves in other ways. Hopefully there are many cars that drive on environmentally friendly fuel. We would probably not think of using instruments such as higher taxes on different parts of the car, in other words, in the same way as aviation. Air travel still has a bad ring for many; they may not have kept up with the fact that today there are more environmentally friendly fuels. In this sense, I share the view of the Government that in many cases it is still too expensive. But the more it is used, the lower the price eventually becomes. That is something we must strive for. I maintain my question concerning what the Norwegian Parliament has taken a position on. You can look at it from different directions. What concerns me is what I quoted earlier from the directive and which concerns the possible air tax, if you want to regulate it so clearly or not.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-660	Madam President, I would like The directive states that we want to stimulate consumers. I have also said that, where possible, more environmentally and climate-efficient modes of transport should be chosen. However, it is still the case that a flight tax should be designed in a way that does not jeopardise the objectives of jobs and development and good accessibility throughout the country. They need to be balanced, and that's why both parts are included in the investigation mission. It is probably not the case that aviation necessarily has a bad sound, but aviation has quite poor values when it comes to climate and environmental adaptation compared to many other modes of transport. This means that on routes where aviation may not be the most sustainable choice of mode of transport, it would be better if people chose another more sustainable mode of transport. At the same time, aviation will develop in the positive way that is necessary in terms of alternative fuels, more fuel-saving driving and so on. Of course, it's very important. But there are also times when flights could easily and with positive results be replaced, for example, by high-speed trains. We do not only have to rule by one, but we need to govern by all the means available to us. This should be done in a way that meets the need for good accessibility throughout the country. We shall have both jobs and growth and the opportunity to live throughout the country. We shall also achieve our climate and environmental objectives, and where aviation needs to take its share.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-665	Madam President, I would like Jessica Rosencrantz has asked me whether I believe that increased competition on the Swedish rail network and what measures I have taken to promote competition on the rail network and, finally, what initiatives I am prepared to take to further stimulate greater competition on the rail network on equal terms. Initially, I would like to make it clear that a well-functioning railway network is a high priority for the government. Since October 2010, there has been free access for rail passenger services provided that the operator holds the necessary licences to operate the service. Established operators in the market have, for easily perceived reasons, an advantage through their previously established relationships with, for example, holders of depots or access to a well-established ticketing system. Competitively neutral access to these services would contribute to competition on more equal terms. The report on the organisation of the railways will shortly be the subject of its final report. In particular, it has the task of considering whether a more comprehensive management of rail and terminal installations should be established in order to improve access to such services. In the case of a competitively neutral ticketing system, there has for some time been an established independent sales channel of train tickets via www.resrobot.se where all train operators sell their tickets. In February 2015, an internal investigation at the Ministry of Economic Affairs presented a number of proposals aimed at improving the possibilities for information on travel options and price information for public transport trips from a traveller's perspective. The proposals were referred in the spring of 2015 and are now being further prepared within the Government Office. The railway signalling system is, of course, neutral from the point of view of competition, since it does not distinguish between the railway undertaking operating on the route. On the other hand, there are technical differences between the different train types which impose limitations on the speed at which the train can be driven. Increased competition can be positive if it leads to new choices for travellers. However, the new competitive situation places increased demands on the rail system for the benefit of competition to passengers. The final report from the study on the organisation of the railways, submitted by 23 December, deals with many of the issues relating to improving the operation of the railways. I look forward to hearing the results of the investigation.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-671	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It's nice to stand here again and debate. We were standing here as late as yesterday. The question is about competition on the railways. The individual traveller has had the opportunity, at least in theory, to choose between several different train companies when he or she has made his or her journey. The possibility to choose airlines has existed for a long time, resulting in pressure on prices, more airlines and attractive arrangements for the traveller. Hopefully, thanks to liberalisation, we can see the same developments on the rail side, i.e. more players, more departures, lower prices. It would be entirely in line with the ambition of all of us, to have an increase in rail travel in our country. We can see that competition has not really taken off. We see quite a few players who have actually dared to invest in the Swedish market. One example that is often mentioned is MTR, which now operates the Stockholm-Gothenburg route. When you discuss with those players who have both dared to invest and who may be thinking about investing, they mention a number of challenges that still exist in the system, and that is about those my interpellation deals with. The operators describe that there are still some advantages for the former monopolist in the system. Several of them I mention in my interpellation and the Government in their answer. In this case, SJ is given priority in terms of train paths and has better access to depots. But there is also a discussion that the signalling system is better adapted for SJ's trains than for the others. All in all, there are competition problems, not least when booking tickets. The website that we all probably go into when booking our train tickets is www.sj.se, and there are not all actors, for example MTR. That is why my question – here I am not seeking political conflict, but more a discussion – is how we can achieve effective competition, which I believe we all recognise can be of benefit to travellers. Are there any arguments with the Finnish Transport Agency and the Swedish Transport Agency, which are the main authorities that have to deal with the issue from the political side? Does the Government see that there is more to be done? I am fully aware of the report by Gunnar Alexandersson, and we are all waiting with great interest for the main report. Is there anything that the Government believes we can do to promote effective competition that is not only in theory but also in practice?
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-678	Madam President, I would like I would possibly like to raise one point. It is not the case that the signalling system is adapted to the train of a particular operator, but rather that some operators have bought trains adapted to the signalling system, because the signalling system is older than, I dare say, all the trains currently operating on the rail network. This means, of course, that the signalling system itself is not a competitive disadvantage in the sense that it would have been adapted to the former state monopoly. It is a question of all trains that do not have a basket tilt, as in this case, with the existing signalling system being forced to drive at a lower speed. This applies regardless of which operator owns the trains. At the same time, competition on the track has increased dramatically over these years, mainly as a result of a significant increase in regional and public transport. One possible explanation for the fact that long-distance trains have not developed in the same way on the competition side is that they are large investment commitments to enter such a market. Public transport authorities generally own the rolling stock, i.e. – in Swedish – locomotives and wagons. This means that those who want to go in and bid to drive the traffic do not need to buy in trains and wagons themselves but can take over what the authority already owns and then drive the traffic until the next procurement takes place. Such a procedure does not exist in the long-distance transport sector, but it allows anyone who has the necessary permits to enter and apply for a train path and then drive traffic. But it is based on the assumption that the heavy investment required is paying off. There's a lot to watch. It may not have any intrinsic value in itself that it runs many different companies on the track. I think few travellers agree that it is desirable. What is desirable is to have a reliable railway that has good accessibility, that is, a frequency and convenience that is attractive, and – not least – that we have increased punctuality. All of this interacts in different ways. It will be a little narrow perspective to just aim to have more players on the track. This is about improving the attractiveness of the railways as a whole. The use of existing infrastructure can even become more inefficient with extensive competition on the track. If there are two or three companies running half-empty or third-stomach trains instead of a company running a full train, we have not achieved much. It also risks making it both more expensive and worse for travellers. Whether competition is good or bad depends a little on what it leads to. The goal for us is that the train traffic should work for the passengers and that the social functions to which the train should respond work well.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-687	Madam President, I would like In fact, I find it a pity that the Council of State is almost clearer in its oral reply than in its written statement that competition is not so violently important. In most, not to say all, other markets, we can note that when there are several alternatives, it contributes to greater pressure on those acting on the market to squeeze their costs, become more efficient and offer a better offer to the customer. As we were aware, this applies not least on the airside. I think very few people wish for an existence where, for example, SAS is the only operating airline, but most people think it's pretty good to be able to go into the airstool.se or whatever it can be and find their way to the airline that offers the most attractive route. I am aware that there are differences between how aviation works and how the railway works, but there is probably great potential for a better price pressure that benefits passengers also on the railways. It is quite interesting that even SJ, who really could have benefited from being a monopolist, in all contexts where I have met them, says that they welcome competition, because it also means that they need to streamline and review their fixed costs and their offering to travellers. For my part, I would say that there is an intrinsic value in competition. Then, of course, you have to follow developments and see that they will be exactly as we wish. At the moment, competition is partly a paper product that does not exist in practice at all times, but if we can have real competition, I think we can ensure that both prices are reduced and the departures for travellers are increased. I have a supplementary question. The task of the Swedish Transport Agency is to monitor the market, including on the railways. When we held a seminar in this house a few weeks ago and invited the Swedish Transport Agency, they thought that they certainly have that assignment but that it is partly just a paper assignment. They do not perceive that the political signals are such that they should prioritise the task and actually monitor competition on the railways. My question to the Government is: Do you think that the Transport Agency's task is important, and can you imagine clarifying the mission and becoming clearer in its demand for the mission that already exists? It is worrying if the Swedish Transport Agency concludes that it is the actor who will ensure that there is effective competition and how it develops, but that it does not seem to be an important issue for policy. How does the Government view it? Is it possible to be clearer in the assignment to the Swedish Transport Agency?
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-696	Madam President, I would like If it is unclear what task different authorities have, we are always prepared to review and, if necessary, clarify. It is clear that the tasks you have should work in a good way. There is no resistance to that. But I think we need to see that the railways are a completely different activity. It is a system in a way that very few other modes of traffic are. Capacity utilisation is quite large, not everywhere but in very many places, i.e.: There is no room. It is not only competition between different companies, but above all competition for track space. The contribution of competition to positive effects in the rail system differs slightly from other markets or areas where it is more free and there is not a capacity ceiling in the same way as in the railway. The very specific characteristics of railway design need to be taken into account. It is not enough just to say: the more actors we have on the track, the better it will be. There are no such simple links with the railways. The quality of infrastructure is crucial for the competitiveness of rail as such. As we talked about here yesterday, we set aside funds, 1.2 billion, in next year's budget to care for and improve the quality of existing infrastructure. As I said, this is absolutely crucial. We also need to add new capacity. It will not be better if more people compete on existing tracks, but we need to ensure that we can increase traffic so that those who want to travel or transport goods can do so in a good way. With this, I would like to point out that there is another aspect of this which is not affected by the opening-up of competition on the passenger side, namely that commuter traffic, which has its logic, competes with long-distance traffic, which has a completely different logic, and with freight traffic, which has a completely different logic. Just looking at competition in one of these areas of logic is becoming a little narrow. For all these reasons, I welcome Mr Alexandersson's investigation and the hope of being able to identify whether the conditions of the railways are different from those of many other sectors. Therefore, a little more action is needed than simply saying that many actors lead to improved activities. I'm pretty sure the connections aren't quite that simple.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-705	Madam President, I would like There is much on these issues that we need to deepen. As the Government says, it is the A and O to ensure that we have a railway that has an adequate standard. We fully agree to invest in operation and maintenance so that we get a railway that is to be trusted. I'm sure more players will be willing and ready to drive as well. However, it should not be described as the Wild West just because there are more players, but, as the Government knows, there is a system that seeks train paths and gets permission to operate. In this context, I think it is excellent that there are several players who are involved and willing to drive our trains. This allows us, as I said, to make our transport more efficient and to give passengers more departures and lower prices. Then it's not the only answer. I'm really going to say that. There is a need for a review of both. Drift and maintenance is one thing we were into. I believe that, in general, in this industry, we need a discussion on productivity developments in everything from procurement to how we make our maintenance efforts. There are a variety of discussions that are worth holding here. What has been a pity lately, particularly with regard to the maintenance side, is that we are partly caught up in a discussion about a renationalisation or not. The investigation by Gunnar Alexandersson, to which reference is made, is very clear that renationalisation is the wrong way to go when it comes to maintenance. My hope for the forthcoming debates on competition in terms of maintenance and traffic is that we are trying to monitor what research and the experts we have put in charge of this say. We can see that the whole of Europe is actually looking at the Swedish side and following us in terms of competition on the railways. We have, not least, the fourth railway package that is being negotiated at the moment. I hope that we both follow Gunnar Alexandersson's investigation but also take note of the conclusions. He has made it clear that competition has been good in terms of maintenance of the railways.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-715	Madam President, I would like How to interpret the conclusions of the interim report previously submitted, we will return to more than once in this House. However, on this particular issue: The parts concerned are, for example, about what Jessica Rosencrantz was into, path assignment and how to prioritise. If there is a shortage and competition, it is about how to allocate train paths between different types of traffic and between different operators. It is extremely complex and complex matter. One might consider working on how to set track charges, which will govern how attractive it will be to apply for train paths at certain times and on certain tracks. But, of course, it is a rather blunt instrument. One can imagine that there is traffic that is extremely important for it to arrive but which does not have the same ability to pay as other types of traffic, which has higher earning capacity. It's really not easy. I look forward to Alexandersson's investigation, especially to get a better knowledge base for a continued discussion. The mission given to Alexandersson is enormous. It's wide and wide, deep and loud. I have no hope of serving black and white solutions to any problem. But I think it will give us the opportunity to have a more nuanced and possibly initiated discussion of what is needed to address these problems on the railways.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-719	Madam President, I would like Sten Bergheden has asked me whether I intend to follow Parliament's decision to set up alco-boms in Swedish ports. The government wants to step up efforts towards safe and safe road traffic. Preventing and preventing drunk driving is an important part of this. To remain at the forefront, we need, with zero vision as a target, to look at new, smart solutions. One such solution is alcoboms in our large ferry ports. The government had therefore already prepared a commission to the Swedish Transport Administration to investigate the possibility of introducing alco-boms in certain ports before the announcement of the Riksdag. The Finnish Transport Administration has now submitted its report. It is important to constantly evaluate and test methods and working methods for effective controls and to increase road safety. The Finnish Transport Agency has collaborated with a number of stakeholders in the field, including the Swedish Transport Agency, the Swedish Police Authority, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Coast Guard, to get the broadest possible picture of how resources for control in ports can be used in a smart way. My starting point is that alcobommers are an interesting opportunity to prevent drunk driving from ferry traffic. We now need to look at the report and its conclusions to see how we can move forward in order to achieve effective measures against drunk driving.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-723	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. The reason why we are here discussing this issue is, above all, that the trial work with the alcoboms has been going on since the Alliance initiated it in 2012. They have been tested in both Gothenburg and Stockholm, with very good results. Four reports have been submitted in the course of the journey, pointing out the advantages and shortcomings of the system. In the Transport Committee we agree that we think this is a good solution to proceed with, and the Transport Committee and then also the Parliament have decided to say yes in principle to implementing alco-boms at our borders, in the port areas. It is good that we agree so far. But then we come to the work that the government is going to do to realise this, and then it's getting a little bumpy, I think. It is clear that we agree on what has been taken and want alco-boms to get rid of drunk drivers. On the regular road networks it may be 1 in 500, but in ports it may be up to 3 - 4 out of 500 that are affected. Alkobommar is a good and effective way to thin both regular motorists and professional drivers. If there is no problem, you roll right through, and it takes no time but floats on. However, if there are problems, it is clear that it will be turned off, and then there will be greater sampling and possible penalties for the person concerned. We have been doing this since 2012 and had probably expected something now, when the experiment is complete. No attempts are underway, and it is temporarily closed in Stockholm. In the 2014 election campaign – and even before that – I know what discussion it was when we moved the alco-bommers from Gothenburg to Stockholm and they would not be left in Gothenburg anymore but removed. Then they tested for a while in Stockholm. Now that we come to the point that it is ready to set up the alcoboms, the government is starting to set up new investigations to point out any problems that may exist. But this is already clear and clear, and there are problem descriptions in the reports. Of course, we must have a division of responsibilities between police, customs, coastguards and any guards or other control personnel that might be needed – I understand that very well. At the same time, however, we must be able to say to our port areas and our border stations, because we intend to introduce this as quickly as possible! 中 so that they start planning. Otherwise, the risk is that they will take down the border stations that may still exist in some parts of the country. Madam President, I would like My questions to the Minister will be: When have you finished the report? When can we expect some kind of information and decision? When do we have alcoboms in our ports? When are we going to stop the drunk drunk drivers getting out that way? These are four very simple questions.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-731	Madam President, I would like I can begin by asking Sten Bergheden a question of control: how much money had the previous government set aside to ensure that not only the experimental activities could be completed in good order, but also the activities could be permanentized? It would have been interesting to hear how much commitment on the subject was when you actually had the opportunity to make those decisions. The Government decided last spring, 9 April, to instruct the Swedish Transport Administration to investigate how automatic sobriety checks could be introduced in certain ports. The mission included analysing which ports may be relevant based on parameters such as traffic volumes, costs, benefits and impacts. The report would include, in addition to proposals for the necessary funding legislation, proposals for which ports should be introduced in the near future and in the longer term and a timetable for it. When carrying out assignments, the Finnish Transport Agency would consult the Swedish Transport Agency, the Swedish Police Authority, the Swedish Coast Guard, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Border Guard, as well as other relevant actors. That is what the government has actually done in this area. I find it difficult to see how we in the government could have dealt with this differently than by looking at how implementation could take place, what costs would arise, what organisational consequences could arise and how to deal with them. Now we have got back the investigation that we commissioned the Swedish Transport Administration to do. It then turns out that the Swedish Transport Administration is not convinced that alco-bommers are the most effective method for curbing drink driving. It is based on the collaboration that the investigation commission has had with other authorities. That is why we now need to reflect on how we proceed with this. We still believe that the experiments that have been under way have shown very positive effects. These include what is very obvious, that is to say that those who drive off the ferry with too high per mille content are simply stopped. It is quite obvious to everyone that that part is positive. However, a positive preventive effect has also been shown. The purpose of this activity is not really to catch drunk drivers. The aim is to reduce drunk driving on the road. This means that the more people that drive off the ferry sober, the better it is. This effect has been achieved with these automatic sobriety checks, even when they have not been in operation. I think it deserves to be said in the debate that the fact that they are there and that you risk that they are actually running when you drive off has had a great preventive impact. This has been demonstrated by the evaluation of experimental activities. The government therefore intends to proceed with this issue. However, we do of course need to consider how this is to be financed. However, we must also ensure that the resources required from customs, police and other authorities are in place, so that this is not just a paper product, but that it is actually also agreed that this is the most effective way of working.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-738	Madam President, I would like Thank you for that answer. The reports say, among other things, that it is very effective for staff to be able to carry out so many checks. It takes so few people to test a whole boat. That is why this is very resource efficient. As the Minister says, it is a question of these stations being set up there and of really manning them to the full, so that they really take these drivers when they come in with the boats. To do this in ports, there is no need for a division of responsibilities and so on. I expected the Minister to come forward a little more clearly and point with all his hand and say that we should have these alco-boms up in these ports. But I haven't seen any signals coming out. Instead, it is now going on to read reports. It is also said in this investigation that a new trial period can be envisaged. If there's anything we've had, it's a trial period since 2012 that just points to positive things. Therefore, a new trial period cannot really be needed. Now it is more about moving from a trial to a permanent activity in our port areas. I think it is important that we keep a little pace here in order to actually implement what Parliament has decided anyway. I am absolutely convinced that there is virtually total agreement in Parliament that we want to get these alco-boms up in our ports. It is probably mainly about the will, the power and the strength of the Minister and the government to get these proposals on the table as quickly as possible, so that we can make decisions about them. It was the power of action that I sought and wanted and that this would happen a little faster when you took over government power, given the time that has gone by since it has become known how positive this is. Of course, as the Minister says, we are looking for this to have a deterrent effect. But it is also about taking these people. Every person who is drunk and gets out of these ports is a great danger to society. Above all, it concerns heavy traffic. Many lives may be wasted because of intoxicated drivers. There is therefore much to be gained by stopping these people, both in the form of money and in the form of avoiding human suffering. I would also like to respond to the Minister when she says that there was no money. But we have financed this experiment all the way up to its completion. This is done. But now the Minister has to take up and put in more money if you want to move on with this. As far as I understand it, there is now no willingness to continue the experimental work. Now we're going to investigate the division of responsibilities. Again, my simple questions are: When do we have them in place? That is what we want from the Swedish Parliament. We have given the government the task of carrying this out, and we expect rapid feedback. I do not want us finally to land so hard here in Parliament that we feel that this has gone too slowly so that we in Parliament are starting to pursue this important issue ourselves. We hope and believe that the Minister and the Government understand the seriousness of our wanting these alco-bommers in place. We have the entire haulage industry, drivers and others in this country with us. So there is broad support in society to get them in place. Could the Minister state some kind of timetable? When will we have these alcoboms in place? Does the Minister and the Government have a more concrete idea of how to proceed?
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-748	Madam President, I would like Let me start by correcting Sten Bergheden on one point. Experimental activities were not fully funded right up to the evaluation. We had a bit of panic, may I say, to provide additional funding for the experiment to continue until the evaluation was completed. The government did that last year. The government has taken the measure that we have given Trafikverket a fairly clear mandate to produce an answer to the following questions: Which ports? How fast can it go? How much is it? How can we ensure that these resources are in place? I've read the report. It's not that we read so insanely slowly. However, we need more time. With the response given by the Swedish Transport Administration to this mission, we obviously need to think about how we take this issue further to ensure that we get better sobriety control in our ports. Then I maintain that the goal is not to nail people. The aim is that everyone who drives is sober and not under the influence of drugs but can drive the vehicles safely. This applies to both heavy and light traffic, but of course it applies particularly to heavy traffic. There I mean that the very preventive function of these automatic sobriety checks has been as important as the actual function of stopping those who have alcohol in their blood when driving off the ferry. Of course, it is extremely important that they are stopped. But the best thing is if no one ever drives off a vehicle from a ferry with alcohol in its body. If we can have such an effect, much is gained by it. We will return when we have considered how to proceed with the answers we have received from Trafikverket. It is quite pointless to just put up the technical equipment in a number of ports a bit hip like happy. If this is to have a real effect, there must also be resources, and customs, police and others must make the assessment that this is an effective and good way of maintaining sobriety in traffic and thus also providing the necessary resources. It is not the booms themselves that are the problem here, but it is also that they need to be manned and that we need to ensure that there are resources to take care of the result if someone actually gets caught up in control. So we keep working on it. Sten Bergheden and others do not need to think about what the government's will is, as it is clearly expressed in the assignment given to the Finnish Transport Administration. But it is clear that when our expert authority, which has been given this mandate, answers that there may be other more effective ways, we must of course take that information to heart and value it. Something else would be very strange.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-754	Madam President, I would like First, I'll comment on what was said about the expert authority. In fact, parts of this expert authority have been involved in the trial project conducted by MHF. These things are therefore no news. Four reports have been submitted overall, and this has been going on all along. Therefore, one should be well aware of what might come up and become problems. If you read this clearly, the MHF has also put forward various possible proposals on how to solve staff problems and other things in order to get closer to this. Detailed work has been done which clearly indicates that this can be resolved. This is a Swedish product. When I was watching this in Frihamnen here in Stockholm, it was Danes who were there watching and who were interested in having this in Denmark. Let us not get to the point where we are developing a good idea in Sweden, that is to say that we are making an attempt, making a good evaluation and report and presenting all the proposals, and then the new government is not able to implement this and ensure that it is in place! Let us not get into the situation of something happening, and then some other countries get ahead of themselves in the process and succeed faster! Then it's a pretty low grade to our ability to act here in the country. Now take your chance! We have done the hard work of the experiment, and we have put forward the proposal. It is ready on your table; there are a lot of suggestions on how to solve this. Your job in the government is now to compile this and return to the Riksdag with a clear proposal on how we can implement it and set up all the alcoboms according to Parliament's announcement and wishes. Thank you for the debate, Minister and Madam President, and I wish the Minister for Infrastructure a Merry Christmas.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-760	Madam President, I would like I forgot to say one thing in my last speech. Sten Bergheden expressed himself as saying that the Riksdag has given the government a mandate, and if someone who is listening might think that the Riksdag can give the government a mandate, I would like to say that this is not the case, of course. Parliament can announce its opinion to the government, but then it is the government that has the responsibility to return to Parliament with a description of how this sentence has been handled. However, it is not the case that the Riksdag governs the government in the sense of giving it a mandate. On the other hand, the government controls its authorities, and we shall do so in such a way that it inspires trust both with the authorities and – of course – with the citizens. This is exactly the kind of mission we are currently preparing in the Government Office, so I would ask you to come back. Thank you for the interpellation and I would like to wish the honourable Member and the President a Merry Christmas.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-763	Madam President, I would like Erik Ottoson has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that the effects of the new Public Transport Act are well discharged and in accordance with the intentions and what measures I intend to take to remedy possible childhood diseases. A well-functioning public transport system is a very important part of the transport system. Among other things, it ensures that hundreds of thousands of people every day can get to and from work and school in an environmentally good way. With great probability, the importance will be even greater in the future, as Swedish cities grow in size. I think it is important that public transport is made more attractive for more people to choose to travel by such means. The Public Transport Act is a tool for creating good conditions for the provision of public transport services of satisfactory quality and scope. The Act delegates the responsibility for regional public transport to municipalities and county councils and states that the task should be carried out by the regional public transport authority in each county. Furthermore, the Act contains rules that meet the public transport companies. The Public Transport Act entered into force on 1 January 2012. As early as 2011, the Government commissioned Trafikanalys to evaluate market developments until 2014 following the entry into force of the new Public Transport Act. One of the conclusions of the Traffic Analysis is that the abolition of the last formal restriction on open market access for commercial public transport has not led to a deterioration of opportunities for regional public transport authorities. Another means available to the State to improve public transport is to develop the overall transport infrastructure, mainly in the form of roads and railways. For the development of the infrastructure, a planning process is ongoing which will lead to the Government making decisions on a new national plan during the current term of office. Sweden's public transport is facing several challenges, one of the biggest of which is that the cost of traffic increases more than travel does. Such a development is, of course, worrying if, like me, it is considered that the development of public transport contributes to the positive development of accessibility and the urban environment. As far as local and regional public transport is concerned, I believe that it will also continue to be a major task for regional public transport authorities. It is very important that the interaction between public transport planning and spatial planning is developed positively. It is therefore important to give regional public transport authorities a good opportunity to develop their activities. My answer to Erik Ottoson's question is that I will closely monitor developments in the public transport market. I will try further measures, if necessary, to improve the conditions for people to choose to travel by public transport.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-771	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. I and the Government agree with each other about the importance of public transport and its extremely important part in our being able to travel in a more efficient and climate-smart way, no matter where you are. The Alliance government took its starting point in the new public transport law that was in place and that meant quite a lot of changes precisely in how to organise this with public transport and what you can and cannot do. In the past, it was much more difficult to enter the public transport market as an external operator – not a county council, a municipal association or in some cases a municipality. There were very high barriers, and it was partially forbidden. These are important steps in the right direction to increase diversity but also to increase the price pressure on public transport travel throughout the country, both locally and regionally. It also relates a little bit to what the Government mentions in its response to the development of costs in the public transport market. The cost trend is, of course, mainly in the so-called procured traffic that the regional public transport authorities procure from various companies in order to have their traffic carried out, but I think that in the long term we will need to see an even greater variety of public transport in order to continue to push prices. However, there are a number of different questions that arise in carrying out such major reforms. There is no reform without childhood diseases, but one must constantly be vigilant about what may occur. One such thing has already been discussed with Jessica Rosencrantz earlier today, namely the question of tickets. It is not really just a question for the railways, but equally a matter for local public transport in our cities and regions. If it is the case that I decide to start a bus company, have all the permits required and report this, I can start to run bus services in regular format or any other format in the intended region with two weeks' notice. However, it will be difficult or sometimes impossible to sell my tickets in the same channels as the regional public transport authority. I myself was involved when Stockholm County Council would develop its first regional public transport strategy, public transport plan or what all these papers we are dealing with now are called. There the balance had to be struck, for example, how we handle a situation where there will be an external player who wants to be part of the ticketing system that exists in the Stockholm region, i.e. the Acces system that Storstockholms Lokaltrafik has administered so far. One realises that the intention of the law is that it should be possible to access that ticketing system in order for there to be as few barriers as possible, because the point of the law is that there should be as few barriers as possible. However, there is nothing in the law that regulates this, and that is one thing you have to keep an eye on. The government mentioned reserobot. In my next speech, I will come up with a little bit of a distinction between what should be a public service obligation and not a public service obligation. Transport is therefore what can be decided upon under the umbrella of the regional public transport authority, and it can also be tax subsidised. All other traffic shall be carried out under market conditions. It also makes it harmful to impose excessive public service obligations in one area and to eliminate other alternatives that could be viable. Let's start with the first question about tickets. How does the Government view this?
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-780	Madam President, I would like The question of ticketing is an interesting one. This is about what Erik Ottoson is asking, but there are quite a few more questions. For example, it is a question of being able to connect different types of travel within the framework of a single journey. Perhaps I travel part of the road by bicycle, and then I get a piece of public transport in the form of bus, metro, tram or something else. Then maybe I'll stop by a cab when I'm going home in the evening or some other combination. Having all of those features in one application would of course have facilitated different types of intermodal travel, and I believe that this is a development that we will see more and more of. It is not just a question of competition in the area of a particular public transport authority, but it is also a question of sometimes crossing county borders. People can live on one side of a county border and work on another, which means that you need to travel with two county transport companies and then need to have two tickets. This is actually a much bigger issue than the one on which the interpellation was concerned. I think it's difficult for the government to steer a ticketing system that everyone is going to adapt to. On the other hand, I believe that there are good reasons to support a development in which operators themselves coordinate or in different ways make it easier for travellers to buy tickets in a more modern way. The technology has developed in quite a short time to provide completely different possibilities for the different combinations, for example through cloud services, than was the case just a few years ago. It is, of course, important that the information on timetables, prices and so on is available in a data format that allows you to build a system around it. The question of accessibility in the form of being able to easily obtain tickets or otherwise take part in a particular type of traffic, I think it is really extremely important to continue working on. There is quite a lot of work going on, including in the framework of Samtrafik where Resrobot is the concrete result, and where different types of models of what this could look like in the future continue to be developed.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-785	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its developed response. I share the view that this is a far greater question than the one I put in the interpellation. Time is limited and questions are sometimes isolated. This was an attempt to move on. I agree with the Government that this is an important piece of work that is being done in Samtrafik around Resrobot. It was something that the industry itself largely picked up, but also after clear information from the Ministry of Industry. The then Minister for Infrastructure, Catharina Elmsäter-Elmsäter-Svärd, said: If the market is not able to cope with this by itself and the industry is not taking this responsibility, we will have to go on the political path and force it one way or the other. Now you've come a little bit along the way. One of my follow-up questions to the Government will then be: Is the Government ready to have as clear a communication as her predecessor on the further steps in this? There are, of course, opportunities to start considering, for example, that form of system as basic infrastructure in order to be able to operate on equal terms, for example, that a bus stop or station track must be opened up to that form of digital infrastructure on equal terms – if it is Resrobot or something else. Resrobot's major problem is that it is not a well-established and well-known channel for the sale of tickets. We are very few who have that application in our mobile phones, although it is very well designed. In any case, I will come back to this with the distinction between public service obligations and non-public service obligations. I believe that it is one of the most important elements of this law to follow up, because it gives very great freedoms for regional public transport authorities to decide for themselves what is and is not a public service obligation. It's pretty well taken. As a regional public transport authority, there is a risk that a little too much public service obligations will be imposed and that subsidised traffic will start on routes that are actually viable on the basis of their own travel data, as the payment to travel on that route will cover the entire cost. Yet there will be a tax subsidy on this. I think that we should try to be careful not to allow this situation to arise, especially in regions where there are a few more people living and where many commute on similar routes where this critical mass can be achieved and viable lines can be reached. I am very interested in listening to how the Government discusses what studies can be made. Have you gone too far or not gone far enough? Perhaps even more routes should be located in areas with public service obligations. Intermodal travel and mobility are a very exciting activity. It largely reconnects with what we talked about a little quickly earlier, namely the increase in the cost of public transport, but also the way in which public transport is being procured. There are examples of areas that have previously been covered by public transport on static bus routes have plans to switch to fully call-in public transport that will not go on regular services at all but be entirely on demand. In this way it is expected to be able to exert considerable pressure on prices. It is of course possible for the Government to work together between the Ministry of Industry and SKL to develop documentation, help and support for more regional public transport authorities to act and procure in this way. Could it be of interest? Is that something that the Government might be interested in doing?
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-795	Madam President, I would like I think we should start by thinking about what the objective is for us to have public transport. It is, of course, that as many people as possible, at the most reasonable cost as possible, with as much availability as possible and with as much efficiency as possible, should be able to move around. This applies not least to those who commute and, for example, those who commute between home and school. It is the purpose of society to provide public transport. There are certainly lines that would be economically viable. But it is not so simple that it is only demand in the purest and most simplistic form of the market economy that is at hand here, but it is also the needs of travellers. Not having a ability to pay that is level with what it would cost to pay the actual cost of the journey is not the same as not having to travel on the route. It is not just a question of commercialising market demand, it is also a question of meeting society's total need for mobility, accessibility and accessibility. There is really no simple answer to the question of what is appropriate, sufficient, too much or too little procured traffic using the public service obligations, but it is an assessment that needs to be made. It is difficult to see that there is someone other than the regional public transport authorities who can make an assessment of the needs of the population of their region, which are the ultimate basis of the public service obligations. It is difficult to give a better answer than that to that question. On the second issue, it is the responsibility of SKL to coordinate that regional public transport authorities improve their procurement capacity and competence, but also how to learn from each other's smart public transport arrangements. An arrangement that works in the inner city here in Stockholm is probably a rather bad arrangement in sparsely populated areas in the interior of Norrland. Therefore, you need to be able to learn from similar municipalities as well as have a lot of learning on how to interact between different modes of transport. I also believe that technological developments offer completely new opportunities to coordinate ordinary commercial taxis with special public transport, such as transport services, school transport and sick trips, and with call-in public transport. In some types of sparsely populated areas, I think it could be a way forward. And there are certainly similar arrangements that could also be positive. But I think it would be unfortunate if this were ruled by the Ministry of Industry. The regional public transport authorities, both Swedish public transport and SKL, have a much more important role to play in such work.
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-800	Madam President, I would like I share the view that it should not be ruled by the Ministry of Industry. However, the Ministry of Industry and, above all, the Minister for Infrastructure can play a significant and leading role in encouraging, stimulating and promoting such work. One can use one's, in the absence of a better concept, political leadership to try to bring this about. In contacts with, for example, SKL or through clear signals to the market, it can be argued that if these problems in the public transport market are not solved by your business, we will, against our will, have to go in and steer this up from the state side. Regardless of the performers, the government that leads the country and we who legislate in this house have a responsibility to make it work. What I am looking for is that we should not have to leave it fallow and then come back to it and find no other way out than to start legislating on things we do not really want to legislate on. As far as intermodal travel and procurement are concerned, the Government and I agree entirely with each other. We will be able to find new interesting ways to do this. So to the question of the delimitation of public service obligations. I do not claim to remove the public service obligations, and I share the view that a large part of public transport will have to be subsidised on the basis of public transport needs that may not be fully carried out under market conditions. However, it would be a pity if we held back things that do not have to cost tax money and voluntarily without having to pay tax money for things that could be free of charge for the tax collective, given that it was given the right conditions and that it did not subsidize that market. Does the Government have any idea about that?
i-7a994fd7ca28abd8-808	Madam President, I would like I think I answered that question in my previous speech. I believe that this assessment must be made on the basis of the local and regional conditions of each regional public transport authority. This is where the commercial conditions and, above all, the needs of the population are known. I think it is difficult to control how these assessments are to be made, but it must be decided on a case-by-case basis. If the purpose of the new Public Transport Act was to obtain a wide range of other operators who would operate regular services in public transport on commercial terms, it has not been fulfilled. It is so unusual that it can be said that there are almost no other operators in this type of traffic. As a result, the need to open up existing ticketing systems to other operators has been very limited. It exists, but it is a very small part. This is, of course, a market that is not really a market, but both a public utility and a service that you pay for. The discussion is quite often about the extent to which one should go in and direct and to what extent one should have a free market. This question will not continue to be easy to answer, because there are advantages and disadvantages of different systems. I think it can be said that, as a whole, today's system is working well. However, we need to ensure that the cost increases are kept at a reasonable level and that we have a positive trend in the number and, above all, the proportion of people who choose public transport over other means of transport.
