i-ba67269c80ee72e7-5	Mr President, I would like to We are going to debate the proposal for a new court data law. The legislation has been preceded by quite extensive preparatory work. In the past, we've got a new Police Data Act and the DA's Data Act. Now the tour has come to a court data law. It will relate to the processing of personal data in the judicial and judicial activities of general courts, general administrative courts and rent and rent boards. The aim has been to have a technology-neutral and flexible law containing the provisions that are central to the protection of privacy. There have been a lot of changes during the preparation process. The proposal put forward is essentially a good one. Nevertheless, there are some points to make. We are in favour of the presentation of this draft legislation. However, it is also important that there is sufficient protection so that individuals' privacy is not violated in the processing of personal data covered by the Act. At the same time, the courts are given the opportunity to process the data effectively and effectively. From experience we know that we often have high ambitions when legislating but that there is no way of meeting the intentions of the legislation in practice. It is therefore particularly important for the government to ensure that the IT environment also includes such solutions that the protection sought in the legislation on sensitive personal data can be maintained in practice. Many times there is a gap between the intentions of the legislation and the actual possibilities of protecting data. That is why, in the first place, we have reserved ourselves on the issue of IT solutions. I think that the government and the majority of the committees have taken a rather nice approach to such a relatively important issue in this context. The report states that the exercise claim is considered to be essentially satisfied. I don't think half-measures should be pursued. It should set the bar high and try to achieve the objectives of the legislation. I therefore propose that reservation 1 be approved. All legislation is, of course, evaluated after some time. Of course you should follow up on how the legislation works. It is also one of the tasks of the committees in Parliament. With regard to this legislation, there have been many points of view during the preparation process. There are also a lot of conflicts of interest where an appropriate balance must be found. For this reason, we think it is particularly important in this particular case that the rules of the Court of Justice Data Act should be followed up closely after a relatively short period of time, so that any problems of application can be addressed as soon as possible. It has been the case that courts have disclosed information of a highly integrity sensitive nature. And in some cases, data has not been disclosed, even though there has been legal support for it. We all know what reaction it was after the publication and announcement of Lexbase. There is reason to take this into account from many different points of view. For these reasons, we believe it is important to assess whether the legislation is working in the way it was intended and in a relatively short time. I also support reservation 2.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-13	Mr President, I would like to Today, the court's personal data processing in the judicial activity is regulated in the so-called Vera regulations. These were added as a temporary solution in 2001. The idea was that they would be quickly replaced by other constitutions that were more elaborate and adapted to the activities of the courts. For various reasons, legislative work has been delayed. The Court of Justice has long pointed out the great need for reform in this area. In order for the courts to be able to work effectively and take advantage of the opportunities offered by increased digitalisation, more modern legislation is needed. That is why the reform is welcome. The legal situation regarding the handling of personal data in the courts is unclear with current rules in several cases. The Court Data Act regulates more questions than the Vera Regulations and provides more simple and robust answers to the courts about how to handle different issues. This creates greater predictability and benefits everyone: the individual who knows what applies, the court that has simpler rules to apply and the court administration that can invest in major development work without having to risk an uncertain legal position. In drafting the rules of the Court Data Act, a balance has been struck between the need for efficiency and the need for good privacy protection at all times. Both perspectives are important to the courts. The courts must be able to work effectively to meet citizens' legitimate demands for a fast and legally secure process. They must also be able to process the personal data provided by parties and others to the Court in a prudent and confidential manner. Therefore, both aspects have been important during the legislative process. I believe that the balance that has been struck in the provisions of the law is a good one. The privacy issues linked to the fact that, for example, the public and the media, on the basis of the principle of public access, can request to a very large extent that the courts search for personal data and disclose it, cannot always be resolved by means of a legal or regulatory prohibition. For an authority to be able to refuse a search requested by, for example, the public, the search ban must be absolute. Absolute search bans cannot be imposed if the activity has its own legitimate need to make certain searches. In that case, the authority would also be prevented. My assessment is that the legislator has made a correct assessment of when absolute search bans can be used. Examples include ethnic origin, political views, religion, health and others. The Court of Justice is the authority that will support the courts in the implementation of the law. In cases where technical limitations are necessary in order to meet the requirements of the Court Data Act, they will be included in the operating aid. However, not all the limitations of the law are possible to build into an IT support. In particular, technical search restrictions are difficult and costly to achieve. An action plan is currently being developed on how to adapt the systems to the Court Data Act. The work will have a dialogue with the courts and also at a later stage with the Swedish Data Protection Authority on changes to be made. It is also a question of finding proper implementation, taking into account the current state of the systems. The implementation of substantial and expensive technological changes for things that can be achieved satisfactorily with simpler means should not be considered. In this case, it will also prevent other necessary technical developments necessary for the efficiency of the courts. In some cases, instructions, procedures and training according to practice are sufficient. The Court Data Act increases the protection of privacy in the following ways: 中 The reform focuses on privacy issues, which means that the Court of Justice and the courts will work much more on the issues than if reform had not taken place. The framework for how and for what purposes personal data may be processed will be laid down by law instead of regulation. The law is system and technology neutral and will apply to all systems. Today, the rules apply only to one system, namely Vera. The law creates greater uniformity as it applies to all court laws. The law is flexible; it is a framework law that can be filled out by a regulation and by regulations. Protection of privacy can be quickly adjusted if necessary. In reality, the protection of privacy is more extensive than the law states. The right of regulation of the government or of the authority that the government decides mainly means that additional restrictions may be communicated. The need for legislation adapted to the activities of the courts has existed for a long time and will now be achieved by the new law. The fact that the law differs on some points from the register laws of the police and the Prosecutor's Office is natural, since the activities and their legal conditions are in many respects different from those of the courts. For example, the activities of the General Court are highly transparent and only a small part of the proceedings are confidential. The opposite applies to police and prosecutors. The courts must be able to disclose public documents effectively. Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the two reservations.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-29	Mr President, I would like to I can say at the outset that I did not intend to ask for a reply, but I did anyway because Susanne Eberstein said something that is not included in our first reservation on IT conditions. Of course, it is not a question of creating some form of technology that is unnecessary. Of course, the legislator's ambitions can be achieved in different ways, but I know from my own experience that it is not always the technical systems that are in line with what is in force in the legislation. Some time ago, there were greater limitations in the Court's IT support on the possibility of issuing a simplified judgment under the Rules of Procedure. There was therefore an opportunity to go further under the Code of Procedure than was technically possible. Of course, it can be the other way round when it comes to security, namely that the ambitions are higher than can actually be achieved technically. I just want to say that this reservation includes something that is completely harmless to the government in that it means nothing to have the ambition that I believe we have in common, namely that the rules should be applied as they are intended. Our justification for the reservation states that the government should ensure that the IT environment includes solutions that enable the desired protection of sensitive personal data to be effectively maintained. Where required in the IT environment, the actions shall be carried out there. If it can be achieved in other ways, it is of course very good, and it is taught under such conditions enough.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-34	Mr President, I would like to If the reservations are dangerous or harmless to the government, our reasons are probably not when we reject or advocate any reservations. We simply think this is taken care of. There are investigations that are involved in privacy in different ways, and they will, of course, look at the issues that exist with regard to the Court Data Act. A great advantage of this law is that you finally get regulation. Very much of what will now be regulated has been completely unregulated with the Vera Regulation. That is why it is very important that this law should finally come.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-36	Mr President, I would like to I fully agree with that. It is very urgent that this legislation should come. Then it is also urgent to reach all the way. The report states that it considers that this is largely met. I think that is a lack of ambition.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-37	Mr President, I would like to The Court of Justice Data Act means, very simplified, a regulation for how the national courts should handle individuals' personal data in their digital system. This means that there are two opposing interests that need to be weighed in order to understand the balances that have been made when the law is drafted. This concerns, on the one hand, the ability of the courts to carry out their work effectively and, on the other hand, the protection of the personal integrity of individuals. In addition, the possibility for the media to have access to data generated during the process, something that must of course also be taken into account. Let us therefore state straight away that it is clear that the possibility of searching for previous decisions remains with up to five years after the decision has been taken. The possibilities for journalists to carry out their work in a good way are thus still assured with the proposed proposal. The whole world is in a process of rapid digitalisation, and Sweden is – and will continue to be – at the forefront of that movement. This applies not least to our state authorities. As public authorities increasingly switch to digitally-saved information, better results can also be achieved at a lower cost. When it comes to the courts, digitalisation can also provide greater legal certainty while saving time and enabling staff to focus on other things. For example, the Court of Justice today has an obligation to disclose certain information to other authorities. By automating such a process, time and human resources can be saved. But there are always risks with freely floating information. The Court Data Act processes personal data that can be extremely sensitive to individuals if the data is not handled correctly. It is therefore crucial that the law is designed in such a way that individuals do not risk having their integrity violated while the courts should have good conditions for carrying out their work. The Personal Data Act is the law that generally regulates the processing of personal data. However, PUL is a law to cover many different situations, and it is therefore generally written. More specific rules are needed for the handling of personal data by the courts. That's why the court data law will soon be in place. The government's assessment is that the law will strengthen personal integrity compared to current legislation. The law is designed in such a way that it should be both technologically neutral and flexible, and it should be applicable even if technological changes occur. Responsible for the personal data will be each individual court. In this way, both the individual and the Swedish Data Protection Authority know who to turn to with objections or questions. The data stored shall be necessary, adequate, relevant and accurate. They shall only be collected with a clear purpose or purpose and the data may only be used for the purpose for which they have been collected. The official shall have access only to the information necessary for the performance of his or her duties. There will also be a number of search restrictions in the registers. It will not be allowed, among other things, to seek from ethnic origin, political opinions, sexual life, union membership, crime or suspicion of crime. Personal data which are not public documents may only be stored for as long as it is necessary for the purpose of the processing. There will also be personal data representatives who will help individuals to correct incorrect or incomplete data. All these safeguards are important and necessary. People's personal integrity matters. Without clear rules on which information from courts may be disseminated or may be sought, there is an imminent risk of injury to individuals who, for example, may have their reputation destroyed or lose their job if data is freely disseminated without control. The work on the proposed proposal has been well aware of this. Account has also been taken of the importance of safeguarding the integrity of our citizens and at the same time simplifying the work of our authorities. That is why I support the proposal in the report.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-48	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved and rejecting the reservations, although I have some sympathy for the reservations that have been expressed. It is really about the two-piece approach; we must safeguard efficiency and integrity. I can understand that there are some concerns. Now I think that this report and the proposal are still sufficient. It's progressing fast. I think it's symptomatic that some of us go up in the speaker's chair with a bunch of papers, others with a smartphone. It's pretty clear what it looks like. Progress is progressing, and we must, of course, follow it in the case of the Court Data Act as well, so that it works. I think that good work has been done on this report. The proposal is a good one. I think we're going to clear this up with this law. There is nothing that ends, but one must continue all the time to keep track of efficiency and technological developments, but also, of course, integrity. Perhaps the most important thing at this point is to defend personal integrity. But we also have to gain by following developments. In my opinion, this law will work quite well, although, as I said, I have some understanding of the reservations left by the Moderates. We have to keep an eye on this, and I assume the government and the rest of us will keep an eye on it. This is also stated in the report. I believe that this will be cleared out rather well, so I would like to support the proposal in the report.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-52	Mr President, I would like to Today, we are debating the Swedish National Audit Office's review report Relapse in crime – how can society's overall resources be better used? I support the reservations of all the Moderates and Alliance parties, but for the winning of time I only call for reservations 1 and 9. The Moderates want a modern penitentiary that is safe and meaningful. While in prison, prisoners must be prepared for life outside the prison walls without criminality and abuse. The prison services were allocated significant resources during the time of the alliance government in 2006–2014. One of the most important tasks of the penitentiary is to reduce relapses in crime. The Swedish National Audit Office's review report is bleak reading. Too many people relapse into crime, and there are major flaws. The review shows that relapse prevention efforts are too few and are far too late. There is a lack of holistic and long-term planning. There is uncertainty as to who should pay different bets. The Prison Service, Arbetsförmedlingen, Försäkringskassan, social services, health care and civil society are working really badly together. The follow-up is short-term and spread across different actors. The report shows that within three years 40 percent of all convicted people relapse into crime. Seventy percent of those in prison relapse within three years. That's way too bad a result. This has been the case for a long time. Relapses are not decreasing. This means great human suffering and huge costs for society. The figure is probably even higher; unfortunately not everyone who commits crimes gets caught. All this must be much better, and clear demands must be made. This is particularly important in the case of young offenders and clients with children. It is important to remember that there is a victim behind almost every relapse – someone who has been raped, someone who has been beaten, someone who has had a break-in in the home. You can't forget that. We sometimes only talk about the relapses themselves, but we also have to bear in mind that they affect people. Here I must also mention the disgusting, callous terrorist attack in Paris. Some terrorists claim the right to hunt down hundreds of innocent people in cold blood. There are over 130 dead and 350 injured, of which about 100 were seriously injured. This is so disgusting that you almost don't think it's true. But unfortunately, it's true. Säpo estimates that about 300 people from Sweden have gone down to participate in IS disgusting things, with beheadings, rapes and more. About 130 of them have returned to Sweden, and there is a risk that they are planning terrorist attacks here too. We must not be naive about this. The majority of these people come from vulnerable suburbs, and many are convicted of crimes in the past. Therefore, it is essential to break the relapses so that these people are stopped before their crime becomes only coarser and coarser. Mr President, I would like to In the review report, the Swedish National Audit Office proposes that a national action plan be developed together with the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils and other responsible authorities to develop the relapse prevention work. The plan should clarify a common basic approach in this area, the distribution of responsibilities and costs among responsible actors and the scope of the actions. It should also be part of the plan to create a research- and knowledge-based system to follow up efforts, including in the long term. We Moderates think that the proposal for a national action plan is a good one. In 2014, the Alliance Government appointed an investigation to study successful international examples of relapse prevention efforts. The work and efforts of the penitentiary were to be mapped out. Then you would compare with other countries and see if Sweden's prison service was good or if you could get suggestions from other countries. It would be seen whether the work was carried out efficiently and also cost-effectively. It would also be seen whether cooperation between different authorities worked well or not. The work, including proposals for improvements, would be reported at the turn of the year 2015/ 16, i.e. in approximately one month. But when it was less than a year before the report, the S-MP government decided to close the investigation. The decision is incomprehensible. It should be in the government's interest to reduce relapses. We believe that the investigation must be resumed. A while ago I was on a study visit to the detention centre in Gothenburg. There they have begun to have a social security secretary firmly placed in custody. This has produced very positive results, especially in the case of young people in detention. In Gothenburg, very many young people are in custody. They are often involved in gang crime. That means they have restrictions. They're not allowed to talk to each other, because there's a risk they're destroying the investigation. Therefore, it has turned out that it is good to have a social security secretary in place that they can contact and who can help them. Correctional services must also be better at getting clients to complete education and treatment. We want more people to have access to vocational training in institutions. We also want all those in need of treatment to implement the treatment programmes that the Prison Service deems relevant. Unfortunately, far too few people participate in these treatments. According to the latest figure I have seen, only 30% participate, and there are far too few. A couple of months ago I and some other Moderates visited Norrtäljeanstalt. We visited a department where there were very serious sex offenders sentenced to an average of nine years in prison. We talked to a man who had been sentenced to 12 years in prison for raping a little girl for four years, when she was between four and eight years old. You don't want to think about how bad it is, but that's how it was. In the beginning, the man had been very negative about participating in the treatment offered by the Prison Service. After he had been around a few times, he still felt that it was positive. At least he said he understood that what he had done was very wrong. He also thought that he would not commit such crimes again when he came out in freedom, and that is very good. The man also believed that treatment programs would have a positive effect even on inmates who actually did not want to. He meant that if you get started you realize that it's still good. There's always something sensible going into your head if you're forced to listen, the man said. We Moderates want the failure to participate in programme activities more clearly than today to have consequences for the execution of the person in question. Mr President, I would like to Many inmates are worried about the release. It is very important to get clear and strong support from authorities and municipalities. That is why we want the Prison Service, together with the Employment Service and the Social Services, to have a common planning for each individual who is released from prison so that he does not fall between the chairs. We Moderates also have other suggestions. But I can't bring it all up here. Mr President, I would like to Finally, the letter states that the Government's intention is to raise the level of ambition in terms of relapse prevention and that various proposals are prepared in the Government Office. It sounds good, but it's not enough. Let's get the government moving. The Swedish National Audit Office also writes that the government's governance is inadequate. It is time for the S-MP government to start directing and making concrete proposals so that innocent people do not suffer from crime.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-70	Mr President, I would like to The letter submitted by the Swedish National Audit Office has prompted a number of reactions from the Government. Nevertheless, what is described in the report is quite all right. We have quite a few reservations. It shows that it is a subject, to prevent relapses in crime, which many are involved in and that you really want to work with. From the Left Party, we have three reservations. I'm going to vote in favour of reservation 5. We have a reservation in common with the Moderates, which is about a national action plan. Ellen Juntti been into it a little bit. That's a good suggestion. We need to have some kind of structure for how to concretely work with those things. We can support that. It's a pretty good way to make sure that you really put the action plan in place. Then there are instructions and regulatory letters. In our reservation we write how important it is that you have a foundation to stand on from the beginning when it comes to how you work with the authorities. It is primarily about collaboration between the different authorities when the inmates come out, are released and are about to start a new life. We believe that there is every reason to look at the regulatory letters and also the instructions to put together some kind of cooperation agreement precisely because we know that it does not work today. There are shortcomings in the interaction between different authorities, especially as regards how to take care of a released prisoner. It means we need to look over it. That is also what has been pointed out. If we are to have a real impact on the prevention of relapses, we must have a proper basis for instructions and regulatory letters. Maybe that's the most important thing. That is also why I am in favour of reservation 5. We would also like briefly to highlight this issue of education. In our reservation 11, we write about it. There is considerable evidence today that what really needs to be done both when people are in prison and when they come out is to ensure that they have proper education. Many people have a need and may not get the chance to get an education. It would be great if people were to have a general right to education during the prison period and that they would also be helped to move forward afterwards. It is primarily a matter of primary education but also of upper secondary education. Today, if you do not have upper secondary education at any level, you are not going anywhere. It's one of the keys to get into society. For the inmate, it is very important for the future that it has the basis to stand on. I request the approval of reservation 5.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, before I forget, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the other proposals on the subject. Audit as such is an important activity. Many times we think of audits such as the revision of figures, ledgers and formalities. This is a business audit. For us as legislators and decision-makers, this type of audit work is even more important for the continued work of developing new and good proposals to improve the operation. This is not the first time that the Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the Prison Service's activities with a focus on relapses in crime. A fairly comprehensive study was carried out in 2009. It was rather depressing reading, much like the reading we have before us today on the table. It's just words and no songs. The 2009 report is some kind of conclusion to the Social Democratic Correctional Service which was before you took over in 2006. This report is a fact of how the bourgeois alliance government has functioned. I may say in a little humility, something that suits both us and you: There is no reason to shine from any of the political blocs about the results of the Prison Service in terms of recidivism. It's as simple as that. So we do not need to focus on throwing pie at each other in this context. In the 2009 report, it was about the same conclusions as Ellen Juntti described here a moment ago. Locking operations are inadequate. The documentation and evaluation of the actions can be significantly improved. The formal execution planning is also not carried out to the extent that could have been desired. Above all, it is crucial that the relapse rate is largely constant. It is an embarrassing fact that we must all take to heart. What's the answer to that? Is it a new action plan or new authorities? We share the view of the Swedish National Audit Office in all parts. We see that the recommendations it gives us basically have a bearing in order to remedy certain things. We have a number of parallel processes that are taking place today about the Prison Service's activities. We had the privilege of having the Director-General of the committee the other day where he went through some of this. We have a new authority that has begun to sit down, a national penitentiary authority instead of many regional ones. This means, of course, that there will be much better conditions for managing to evaluate and achieve equivalence across the country in terms of interventions. Of course it is. In this connection, a whole new monitoring system is in place. They look at the various action plans and programmes in the field of outpatient care, try to ensure their quality and ensure that those who do not work are removed. That's what they've done. If it turns out that from a scientific point of view it has not worked, simply phase out the rehabilitation measure. The Government has also specifically commissioned the Crime Prevention Council to investigate the employment measures in prison. It's important to follow that part. Working in an institutional environment is an extremely important factor for inmates to enter some kind of normal routine also outside society. This also applies to studies. There is the great challenge of ensuring that the inmates have good studies that really dock with the studies that exist outside the prison walls. We have specific systems in the field of parole and correctional services. But outside the municipality, social services and the regular systems must adequately capture these people once they come out. That's not exactly how it works today. This is because for many years society has faced enormous challenges in terms of housing shortages and shortcomings in how we manage to manage integration and other things. In addition to this, initiatives have been taken in the autumn to get Brå and the Prison Service to have a better joint evaluation. That is a little bit what is being called for in some of your reservations. We therefore believe that there are points already under way which make reservations to a certain extent open up. In addition, I can say that in our budget proposal there is a special focus on relapse prevention and lockdown measures. There are both funds allocated and directives in relation to what is coming. It will strengthen that part. You might think, if you want, that this is rather depressing reading and that this is nothing to do about. However, it must also be said that today the penal services have much better conditions on many levels to create a better platform. It is right at the lockout that it is flawed; this shows the Swedish National Audit Office very clearly. That's where we need to get better. Otherwise, we have almost no escapes from our prisons. We have a basically drug-free prison environment. Screening tests show that there is a low proportion of inmates affected by substances. This, of course, creates the conditions for rehabilitation, for drugs are of course both cause and effect in terms of why they engage in criminal activities. Furthermore, due to the Supreme Court's decision on serious drug offences, we have a number of vacancies in prisons. The Director General described how, in this situation, staff can be further trained and perhaps also steered up resources to work more with preventive activities when there is some air in the organisation, or what to call it. This is the case, because the level of staff and the proportion of staff have been maintained. This means that the Prison Service in its funding allocation has the potential to work with relapse prevention in a different way than before.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-91	Mr President, I would like to As I mentioned in my speech, the Alliance did much in the years we were in government. But I have never ever claimed that everything is perfect, for this is a large and difficult area and much remains to be done. It is better that we talk about the future and not about what has been. Now the report has shown that there are major shortcomings. We in the Alliance government wanted to get to grips with this, and that's why the government set up the investigation in 2014. It would analyse how good the activities of the Prison Service were and whether it was cost-effective. One would also compare with other countries and see if there was anything there that we could take on board and improve. The study would also suggest collaboration and how to improve it. The investigation would have been reported now at the turn of the year 2015/ 16, i.e. in about a month. Yet the S-MP government chose to close it, which I find quite incomprehensible. In the review report, the government writes that a lot of things are being prepared, but that is far from being proposed. It may take one, two or three years for the government to come up with proposals for what they want to do. That is why, as I said, I do not quite understand why the government closed the investigation. Otherwise, good proposals would probably have been made within just over a month. Therefore, my questions are: Why did the government close the investigation? And when does the government calculate to make their own proposals?
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-95	Mr President, I would like to You can say this: you know that when we took over power, there was a different kind of budgetary situation for the Government Office in terms of investigative activities. One had to prioritize among the assignments one had. To put it bluntly, the government simply felt that within the Prison Service's activities there are possibilities to get the research overview and the international outlook built into the very resources that the Correctional Service has with the new agency that has been put in the lake. I have full confidence in the fact that both the Prison Service and the Crime Prevention Council and the Government Office have a lot of confidence in the international outlook and what works and what doesn't work. Sweden is still at the forefront in the world, both in the area of penitentiary care and, above all, in the area of international surveillance and research links when it comes to how we handle justice and penitentiary policy. This is the case with the individual programmes: they are evaluated consistently, and they are done on the basis of a scientifically proven method. Then you draw conclusions. Does it work or doesn't it work? If something doesn't work, you stop it. I am absolutely convinced that the concrete day-to-day activities of the Authority will be examining proposals on which we will take a political position in due course.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-99	Mr President, I would like to I am not entirely convinced that the Prison Service, as Petter Löberg said, has to do with what other countries are doing. Petter Löberg did not answer my question about when. When is the government's proposal coming? If it takes one, two or three years, many victims may not otherwise have been affected. I would therefore like to know when proposals will be made. It says in the letter that the government prepares, but there is not a single letter about when proposals will come. I also have a question about different treatments. 30% are involved in treatments. It is therefore about 70% who do not participate. If you think about what I said about Norrtäljeanstalten, where the average time is nine years in prison, and that 70 percent of those who sit for nine years and come out after maybe seven, eight, nine or ten years in prison without having received any treatment, that's a pretty frightening thought. These are serious criminals who sit there, who expose people to serious sexual crimes. At least we want it to have a little consequence if we do not participate in the treatment programmes, and we really want more from the Moderates and the Alliance to participate. My questions to Petter Löberg are: Do you think that participation should increase? And if so, what will you do to get more people to participate?
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-103	Mr President, I would like to In our budget proposal there are special funds for deportation measures. This is the time to take a position on it, and that is also where the directives will eventually come in writing to the authorities. So it is in real time, and we have the resources for this issue, among other things. I would say that things are happening, but it is clear that it is a different matter if we are to take a holistic approach in the form of a national action plan. This is not a new business. People have been locked up for centuries in this country, and we have a long experience of what works and what doesn't work. The research situation is not an unwritten sheet in terms of what has an effect on recidivism. The problem is that it does not make it work in practice when it comes to cooperation between the authorities. That is where you need to have the greatest focus, and not on dealing with action plans, investigations or research in the first place. In the first place, it is about action in the house. There is a need to ensure that municipalities interact with Prison and Social Services. We have Krami, which I think you also think is a good business, where the Employment Service, the Municipality and the Prison Service work together in exactly the way that I think you are calling for. The focus is on getting back to work and studying. It is an activity that we absolutely welcome the development and expansion of.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-107	Mr President, I would like to One of the most important tasks of our society, in particular the judiciary and specifically the penal services, must be to protect our citizens from crime. This work must be carried out throughout society. This is done by building a society where people can live good lives as part of the labour market and get a place of residence and education – investing in the society that we are all part of. We have great challenges. One of them is that people are beginning to commit crimes at all and another that we are not able to prevent those whom we prosecute from continuing to commit crimes. This is the problem that the Swedish National Audit Office's review report is about. The important task of the penal services to prevent relapses in crime is not fully fulfilled. Much is done that is good, but it needs to be done more. I think it is important to take note of the conclusions presented by the Swedish National Audit Office to the Government, and I am pleased that the Government takes these views very seriously. The Social Democratic and Environmental Party government has invested SEK 25 million in the budget bill that we are putting forward together with the Left Party to strengthen relapse prevention. One particularly points out the lockout, i.e. the cormorant, where the inmates go from prison back to society. More efforts are needed there. It is at this point that it is decided in many ways whether people come back to a life of crime or get a chance to get back into society. Of course, it is not the Prison Service that controls whether people become homeless or not, whether the labour market is open to those who have previously been in prison or over whether there is the possibility of continuing education. Therefore, it is also important for the government to make efforts to reduce the housing shortage and for more people to get jobs and education. The Correctional Service wants to work together. This was borne out by the Director-General of the Correctional Service when he visited the committee on 5 November. I am pleased that he expressed responsibility for improving cooperation with municipalities, county councils and state authorities in relation to the lockout and recurrence prevention work. I think it is important for every actor to step forward and do what we know needs to be done to succeed in the prevention of relapse. The Swedish National Audit Office identifies a number of areas for improvement. This gives us the answer to the question of what we need to do once again, in black and white. We know what needs to be done, and that is why we need to act rather than investigate. We need to start working on the problems that we have rather than spending time and resources again asking ourselves the question: Well, what did we need to do now? We have a long and solid list of what needs to be done, and we agree on the conclusions. That is why I support the proposal in the report, which rejects the proposals for further examination at the present time. The Swedish National Audit Office points, among other things, to insufficient governance. I share Ellen Junttis strong criticism of this. It should be remembered that it is the government in which Ellen Junttis party was responsible that is being evaluated in this report, although, of course, as Petter Löberg from the Social Democrats humbly pointed out, for a long time there have been shortcomings. Now is the time to do something about it. Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that we have this broad consensus on the Swedish National Audit Office's conclusions, the need to focus on the relapse prevention work and the ambition to get better and about the way there, at least on the whole.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-116	Mr President, I would like to The regulatory simplification work must continue. The Christian Democrats and the rest of the Alliance started a great deal of work, and this must continue. The report we are debating today brings the Swedish accounting rules for companies into line with EU rules. This will make it much easier for smaller companies to account for, among other things. For example, disclosure requirements are limited in notes in the annual report. The principle that information which is not essential can be omitted becomes a general rule. The new Accounting Directive 2013 is part of the EU's drive to simplify the regulatory environment for companies operating in the EU, especially small businesses. The Annual Report Act applies to almost all companies that are required to draw up an annual report. More recently, several reforms have been implemented to reduce the administrative burden on businesses. A proposal for this was presented during the Parliamentary Session 2009/ 10 and included information in the annual and consolidated financial statements. The starting point has been that disclosure requirements should not go beyond what is necessary to safeguard the needs of third-party stakeholders, such as investors, creditors and employees, for information purposes in order to assess the economic and development potential of companies. In the proposal put forward by the Government on the table of Parliament and which we are debating here today, it has chosen to retain the categories of smaller and larger companies. We find it problematic. Since an increasing proportion of accounting requirements for companies is based in the EU, the Alliance believes that it will be problematic if Swedish legislation has a division of companies that differs from many other countries in a way that means that the Swedish business community will in the future have higher accounting requirements, which also includes more companies, than our competitor countries. The Christian Democrats with the rest of the Alliance, i.e. the Moderates, the Center Party and the People's Party Liberals, therefore chose to present a follow-up motion that has also become an announcement from the Riksdag to the Government to come back with proposals that, in terms of the classification of companies in the Annual Accounts Act, are based on the ambition to reduce the regulatory burden on companies. If we ask companies themselves to name the biggest problems today for them to grow, that is precisely the regulatory burden. That work takes far too much time. We should be honest and add that the future jobs will be created when individuals, entrepreneurs, feel that it is worth starting or developing a business, to realize an idea. Tomorrow's job will be created in companies that are allowed to grow. Looking ahead, it is important that we do not forget to follow up the reforms carried out in previous mandates and ensure that they have the intended effect. We must and can do much more for a better business environment in Sweden. I support the proposal in the report.
i-Wkh9mYFj6hq4KDrT7798WS	Mr President, I would like to We are debating the civil committee's report No 6 which deals with the Government's proposal Clearer accounting rules and new reporting requirements for the extractive industry. I also support the proposal in the report. The bill contains two parts, and I was going to highlight the part that Caroline Szyber did not talk about very much. It contains completely new reporting requirements for the extractive industries. The regulation concerns large and financial companies engaged in the exploration and extraction of natural resources such as oil, coal, natural gas, metal ore and other minerals and also the forest industry. The companies you think of in the first place are the oil and mining industries. Large companies in the extractive industries operating in several countries will be obliged by this legislation to establish a so-called country-by-country reporting. It shall include payments made to authorities in the various countries for, inter alia, extraction rights and also taxes on the profits and revenues of companies which have been collected in the countries in which they operate. Some of the companies are already working on sustainability and transparency within the framework of the extractive industry's initiatives for increased transparency. It is to benefit the countries where extraction is carried out. The new reporting obligation creates more equal conditions of competition between those companies that want to operate in a fair way and those that do not take that responsibility at all at the moment. Every year, developing countries lose large sums of money on illicit capital flight. Most of the capital flight consists of multinational companies not paying taxes as they should. I very much hope that we will at least take steps to tackle some of the problems by forcing companies to become more transparent. When companies use open accounting, it is also hoped that corruption will decrease. Mr President, I would like to The proposal contains proposals from the Report Report on how we in Sweden can implement the EU's new Accounting Directive. In addition to the country-by-country reporting, the Directive, and by extension, also contains a series of clarifications and simplifications, especially for small companies' annual reports. In its opinion, the Accounting Board explains in a good way the purpose of public accounting and also the importance of balancing different interests. On the one hand, it should take into account the needs of different stakeholders for useful information in order to make economically sound decisions, while at the same time not making accounting too burdensome for companies. The report is also important, as Caroline Szyber said, for suppliers and creditors, and also for the S cate authority and the public statistics. Legislation should simply seek a good balance between the need for information and the burden of accounting for companies. The legislative changes proposed in the bill provide clarification and simplification with a view to smaller companies. This means 98 percent of all Swedish companies. The administrative burden is reduced for a large part of Swedish companies. The Directive allows Member States to decide to include more undertakings in the category of public-interest entities. That's what the investigation suggests. But in the ambition to reduce the hassle, the considerations made have decided not to let public companies, public limited liability companies, for example, be accounted for as larger companies, which would have meant that their regulatory burden had increased. The category of public-interest entities is also not introduced in order to maintain the simpler structure of the legislation, i.e. that there are few categories in Swedish legislation. Moreover, there are no significant differences in the requirements imposed on large and public-interest entities. Therefore, there is no reason to introduce another category. In conclusion, the proposal contains a series of proposals for simplifications and clarifications on the issue of the annual accounts of companies and groups. As I have said a few times before, the focus is on smaller companies. We think that the government's various considerations are good, but the committee also believes that the government should continue to work and return to Parliament with proposals for more relief specifically aimed at smaller companies in order to reduce their regulatory burden.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-134	Mr President, I would like to I chose to highlight things I wanted more of, and so we aroused a follow - up motion. Otherwise, I think the proposal that has been put forward is a good one. That is why we called for the proposal in the report to be approved. It is important to keep a strong focus on sustainability and transparency. We therefore support the proposal. I would like to follow up on the issue of the introduction of more categories. In this case, the government has made the balance that they are not needed, but Johanna Haraldsson has opened up for the government to come back to the issue.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-136	Mr President, I would like to The government has listened to some consultation bodies. It has emerged that the introduction of more categories would create a certain problem in the legislation at the moment. Therefore, it has not been proposed in the bill. At the same time, nothing is static. There is a great deal of work going on at both EU and national level to reach agreements to reduce the hassle for businesses. The forthcoming report of the Accounting Review will strike a balance with regard to the category of micro-enterprises.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-138	Mr President, I would like to If Swedish companies are to have a chance to grow big, there must be an advantage for them to do so. For small enterprises, certain accounting rules should be in place. Then there should be a category for medium-sized enterprises, where a large number of enterprises should exist. There, the question of which accounting requirements suit them needs to be reviewed. Then there are the large companies with high turnover, which are listed or have a certain number of employees. Those rules are clear. From a competition perspective, it is problematic that there is currently no intermediate category for medium-sized enterprises. I've worked as a lawyer with accounting issues. In terms of accounting, I would have liked to have looked a little more at what it looks like in practice and not just listened to what some audit firms say. Current legislation has introduced an accounting requirement for the often large companies, and then the requirements are to seep downwards. It has been a way for other companies to feel that they are involved and stand up for current accounting practices. It is not a question of introducing more charges. I hope that the government will continue to build on the existing accounting tradition and allow the law to apply to the largest companies and show that there is a time and a bridge over for smaller companies. Medium-sized enterprises are a category that is currently lacking. This means that very many small companies today have their growth retarded, which means that they have to spend an incredible amount of money, resources and time accounting rather than being able to invest in and develop their ideas and activities.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-142	Mr President, I would like to This bill makes simplifications for small companies, which Caroline Szyber lifts up. We are talking about the reporting that the larger companies are supposed to do. As I mentioned earlier, 98% of companies are small companies, which have thus been relieved in this bill. We're in agreement. We think it is good to look at these different categories. So this shift in line will not be much of a debate. It is important to actually look at where the delimitation should be done and so on. But it is also the case that very few companies are affected if one additional category is introduced – 2% of Swedish companies are larger, i.e. medium-sized or large companies. What is pointed out in the opinion is that there is a fear that legislation will create a difficulty and a problem for entrepreneurs in finding where their businesses belong in the legislation. There are several different boundaries that they have to keep track of. But as I said, just because this proposal does not address this issue, nothing says that we should not look at the classification in the future. That's where we're in complete agreement. My party has no reservations in this report; it is a joint announcement to the government.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-148	Mr President, I would like to In a letter from the European Commission, it is estimated that up to one third of companies' administrative costs for complying with EU legislation do not come from EU law itself, but from the Member States' ambition to make the legislation even better and even more ambitious. This, Mr President, is a typical example of this. The European Commission is putting forward a proposal for a good directive aimed at increasing transparency in, for example, the forestry and extractive industries. It is basically good, and it is a bill that we support. However, the directive also proposes a different categorisation of the size of companies than the one we have in Sweden, that is, the number of companies proposed to be covered by the directive is considerably smaller than in the corresponding Swedish proposal because we simply have different sizes. Then one has to ask how well prepared this bill really is. So there has been an investigation that has looked and turned and turned these questions around for several years. It is a 600-page report, Mr President. This report proposes that Sweden should implement the same size classification as proposed in the directive – precisely in order for the rules to be effective and precisely so that it will be predictable which companies will be covered. In the consultation round that took place after the investigation was completed, the consultation bodies have expressed their views on the basis of the introduction of this categorisation. The government then presents a bill in which it simply fails to introduce the categorisation. Only reporting requirements are introduced, not categorisation. Thus, the entire processing process has been substandard, as the referral bodies that have given their opinion have done so in the belief that we will repeat the size categorisation in the Annual Report Act. So there is no consultation body on this legislative matter that has commented on the consequences of what is now on the table. Mr President, I would like to The question is asked: what do the government parties really think of the follow-up motion? They have not reserved themselves, but they stand here in line and criticise the intentions of the accompanying motion. The idea that there is less hassle the fewer categories we have is very strange as a starting point. Then the best thing would be for us not to have any categorisation at all and for the individual firm to be subject to the same reporting requirements as the large multinational in the extractive industry. Would that not be, according to the Social-Democratic logic, the least difficult of the rules? We need to remember who the problem arises. It may be that an accounting economist or a lawyer needs to keep track of more size classifications, but for individual entrepreneurs and companies, it is of course less of a regulatory problem if you have a size categorisation that is appropriate. So we think it is a good thing that large companies in the extractive industries are subject to clear reporting requirements. However, we do not think it appropriate to extend this responsibility to a far greater number of addressees than will be done in the rest of the European Union. Mr President, I would like to Why is the current government so interested in tying rice to its own back when it comes to implementing EU directives? After all, we are all striving to have a common internal market. That is precisely why there is the EU directive – to harmonise legislation. Why, then, does the Swedish Government want to give Swedish companies competitive disadvantages in this context? That is the question that is not being answered today. What do the government parties think about the accompanying motion that is now under way? Are they for or against an additional size split? If they are against, they should reasonably reserve themselves and not just in vague terms criticise the exercise in the lines. How will they vote? Will they vote in favour or against the accompanying motion which is now in place? It would be interesting to know, Mr President. Stefan Löfven often spoke warmly in the election movement so that we will analyse every proposal that this government puts forward from a job perspective. Then I would like to ask the representatives of the government parties here today: is this analysis made in this context? How many more companies will be affected by this reporting obligation because no more size categories are included in the Annual Accounts Act? What will be the costs for these companies?
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-159	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats influence the Swedish Parliament. Sometimes we think like the government, and sometimes we think like the Alliance. In this matter we do both. We agree with the Government's proposal on accounting rules and reporting requirements. We also agree with the Alliance's proposal to force the government, by means of a so-called announcement, to divide companies into more than just larger and I am putting the bulk of my speech on the Alliance's proposal, as that is where we give the government a certain back lesson. A more adapted division may be needed when adopting EU directives adapted to a breakdown of up to five different sizes. In practice, EU directives are just a finer word for binding legislation adopted by politicians in Brussels. The EU is talking about micro-enterprises, which are the smallest, about small enterprises, about medium-sized enterprises, about large enterprises and about community-supporting enterprises. For the breakdown there are fixed limits and they shall be determined by the respective country. It is about limits on the number of employees but also on turnover, depending on which is achieved first. If we do not divide into as many different groups as the EU, the practical effect will be that more companies will face tougher rules than necessary. Swedish companies are at risk of being disadvantaged if they are subject to tougher rules than similar companies in the rest of Europe. For example, if a division is made between small and medium-sized enterprises alone, the companies that the EU calls micro-enterprises will also be affected by the rules for what the EU calls small enterprises. Similarly, the companies that the EU calls medium-sized enterprises are disadvantaged because they are affected by the rules that the EU has adopted for large companies or for those that support society. Mr President, I would like to A friend of order may wonder why the Swedish Democrats are now advocating that we have regulations that are more similar to those of the EU when the Swedish Democrats in many other areas distance themselves from Europe's supranationality and the EU's way of bureaucracy to death. From the Swedish Democrats' side, of course, we would have preferred Swedish companies to have had simpler and more favourable rules than the rest of the EU. But it is not allowed as long as we are fully in the European Union. Until we renegotiate our membership into a cooperation agreement, we must make the best of the situation. Mr President, I would like to If we look at the responses of the consultation bodies, we can see that, in particular, two consultation bodies opposed a division similar to that in the EU and in several different size groups. It's the IRS and the Accounting Board. Both of these will, of course, suffer a certain amount of extra work in the event of increased division. In the choice between making it easier for some companies and making it easier and better for the authorities, the choice is quite simple. It is the companies that give income to Sweden and to the Treasury. It is also companies that create wealth and companies that give us the opportunity to have the public service that we still have after all. If we, the Swedish Democrats, can help to simplify and improve for the companies in Sweden, we are happy to do so. The Swedish Democrats are an entrepreneurial party. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-168	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by saying that I support the CU6 report on clearer accounting rules and new reporting requirements for the extractive industry. The proposal in one part is about making it easier for smaller companies to account and in the other part about new reporting requirements for the extractive industry. It is a new law that will enable greater openness and transparency and hopefully help to combat corruption. We think that's a good thing.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-170	Mr President, I would like to I had expected the Green Party to devote more than 37 seconds to this matter. I would like to ask the Green Party, Mr President, what they really think of the follow-up motion. Is the Green Party benevolently cancelled? Will we see a change in the proposal from the government? Will the Government meet with the Riksdag's announcement? Is it good or bad that we have several divisions for the size of companies according to what the EU directive proposes?
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-172	Mr President, I would like to We agree on the announcement. We have chosen together to support it. In that announcement, we say that in the further work, the government will review more categories for companies. We agree on that. I don't think we should precede that work. This work is ongoing in the Government Office. It will continue. It is about the final report of the Accounting Report, and the committee agrees with the announcement that more categories for companies will be reviewed.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-174	Mr President, I would like to I welcome the Green Party's agreement with the criticism of the substandard preparation work carried out by the government in the presentation of the bill. They choose to simply overlook what was the investigator's proposal. You choose in the bill not to go on the line to do the size division. It is good that we in the Swedish Parliament can unite when the government does wrong. Isn't that right, Emma Hult? Let us do so in the future, and let us hope that the government will come back with a better regulatory product when it presents the proposal that we will hopefully not have to wait too long for, the one on the reporting of non-financial information, which is also part of the transposition of the Accounting Directive.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-176	Mr President, I would like to As Mr Carl-Carl-Oskar says, we have a joint declaration in the report. That announcement is about further work. In the bill are proposals for simplifications for smaller companies. Hopefully there will also be more transparency and transparency in the rules applicable to the extractive industry. I think that's great. Work continues, and we will come back to it.
i-D3skBsEdGQiFJc8auzoLYu	Mr President, I would like to Clearer accounting rules and reporting requirements for the extractive industry, what is it? It concerns companies engaged in exploration, development, extraction and thus comparable activities involving oil, natural gas, coal, peat, sand, gravel, stone, clay, salt, metal ores and other minerals. In addition to fossil materials – oil, coal, ore and minerals – it can be gravel and stone that we use when building homes, railways and other infrastructure. It may also be something that is not listed here but which is also extraction, such as lime. Lime is broken and used to spread in forests and soils to restore pH values and counteract acidification, get the fish back into the lakes and make it possible for the land to be used to grow food in the future. It is easy to imagine that rules that can be perceived as necessary and justified for a type of activity, which we may not like for various reasons or which are run in large, global groups that behave more or less badly, become burdensome and difficult to manage for small and medium-sized enterprises, those that we perceive are doing great social benefits by providing us with materials so that we can quickly obtain housing, connect land with macadam on new embankments and make small roads in the countryside navigable even after the loss of self. I think we know a lot of people who work in those companies. We may even know those who run the companies. Mr President, I would like to I shall keep it a little shorter than usual because there is a great deal of agreement in this House and in the committee that it is necessary that the government does not continue to make the same mistakes as in the preparation of this proposal. Instead of a few companies getting increased demands, according to what the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise says in their referrals, the proposal beats more than 6,000 companies. If we are to talk about gravel and stone, it is not only about Heidelberg Group, Jehander and Cementa, but perhaps also about little Fjärås Sand & Makadam, what do I know? Continued adherence to only two categories of companies in the Annual Accounts Act – larger and smaller companies – means that several thousand companies are unnecessarily burdened with administrative burdens and are forced to use and pay for expertise they do not possess, to the benefit of society. For the Center Party, regulatory simplifications for companies are a guiding principle. It is not clear yet that social democrats and other iljöpartists sometimes routinely ignore the effect of gross generalisations on how new rules can affect the job creators of the country's small and medium-sized enterprises. It is therefore particularly gratifying that we now agree that this is important. I am in favour of the committee's proposal because it means that the government will continue to adapt directives, laws, rules and regulations to three categories: large, medium-sized, small and public-interest enterprises. This may be as few as 2%, but behind each percentage figure there are a very large number of individual traders. It's a percentage, not a numerary. It's not easy with the percentage. Such a change, which will be decided on our initiative later today, means that far more companies will indeed be subject to regulatory simplification. That, Mr President, is centre policy in practice. I am pleased that the civil committee's alliance was made aware of this and that we managed to produce a motion which everyone here supports. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-186	Mr President, I would like to In the bill, the Government proposes legislative changes that make it easier for smaller companies to account for, among other things. The Left Party welcomes the proposal, which reduces the regulatory burden for smaller companies in particular. The regulatory framework will also be clearer, which will reduce the often burdensome administrative burden, especially for small businesses. The Left also agrees with the committee's response to the motion raised in connection with the proposal, in which the committee has no opinion other than those of the motionaries that there is a need to test the possibilities for further relief in the future. In particular, the Left Party welcomes the proposals for a completely new regulatory framework for reporting payments to governments from companies operating in the extractive industries, such as oil, coal and minerals, or in the logging of natural forests. The proposal is an adaptation to the EU Transparency and Accounting Directive, country by country. The rules require undertakings active in the extractive industry or in the logging of natural forests to draw up a special report on the payments made for the right to extract valuable natural resources. Payments from the extractive industry or the primary forest logging industry may constitute a substantial share of a country's income, in particular for resource-rich developing countries. Developing countries have a large deficit of money. At the same time, hundreds of billions of dollars a year flow out of developing countries, both legally and illegally, through tax evasion. Large amounts of money are also being lost through corruption – money that could have been used to combat poverty or maternal mortality or for increased democratic development. The new rules on reporting and transparency now proposed are a step in the right direction to tackle tax evasion from particularly poor third world countries and can help to reduce their problems of corruption, poverty and conflict. I hope that the directive will be followed by additional directives involving larger companies in all areas, not just in the extractive industries. It is important, however, that the new rules are complied with, and for this transparency is extremely central. It is therefore important that the report is made public in a format that is available online, and in accordance with the principles of public access endorsed by the Swedish Government through open government. It is also important that it is felt by companies that are in breach of the rules. Therefore, sanctions must be effective and dissuasive, not just in the form of a small fine, where companies hide information or misreport. I also think that we can give some thought to the fact that less than 860 000 have been excluded, an amount which I think is rather high. As a whole, however, I see the proposal as a positiv and a step in the right direction. However, there is reason to monitor closely how the new rules are being complied with in the future. I would like to support the committee's proposal.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-193	Mr President, I would like to Together, Europe's countries are becoming freer, richer and more secure. The Liberals believe in the potential of European cooperation to solve the problems that are common and that we cannot solve on our own. We in the Liberal Party want to realise the idea of a Europe in which democracy and prosperity are united with a dynamic economy. That is precisely why the EU must continue to reduce the regulatory burden, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. On behalf of the People's Party, the Liberals, I support the committee's proposal, which implements parts of the EU's accounting directives. We welcome the fact that the Swedish accounting rules for companies are adapted to EU rules. We see that much more needs to be done. The proposal we are voting on today concerns the extractive industry and is a step in the right direction because it makes it easier for smaller companies to account. For example, disclosure requirements are limited in notes in the annual report. We believe that the principle that information that is not essential can be left out is an important measure, as most new jobs in Sweden today are not created by the Red Green Government but by small companies. The extractive industry is creating jobs, while the Löfven of tax money has only managed to create one fake job so far. So the jobs we are talking about in the extractive industries are real jobs. 70% of Sweden's exports go to the EU, and if jobs are to increase, we need to make it even easier for companies to operate across borders on equal terms. Disclosure requirements should not go further or cover more Swedish companies than EU legislation requires. This is why the People's Party Liberals, together with the other alliance parties, were exercising to introduce the same categorisation of companies as the EU advocates in the Accounting Directive. The study, which has produced the proposals we are debating today, also recommends that the EU's categorisation of companies should be used. We therefore expect the government to return to Parliament with such a change, as the alliance parties have proposed.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-197	Mr President, I would like to I can't afford anything but a certain reflectance. Here, the civil service has just discussed how they will do so, among other things, in smaller rules for companies. They're removing rules. However, in the case of financial companies, we are more than offsetting this as a result of other EU directives. You take one hand and you give with the other. This is the case when it comes to regulatory simplifications in companies, unfortunately. Mr President, I would like to We are now going to deal with the Finance Committee's report No 7, which deals with the implementation of the Solven II directive in the field of insurance. The proposals are very comprehensive. The bill has 1 133 pages and affects several different teams. It is based on the Solven II Directive in the EU. The Directive has aimed at providing financial security for policyholders and for the supervision of the insurance sector. The committee assists the proposal except for Chapter 6. Section 1 of the Act on the Annual Report of the Insurance Company. The reason for this is that the Committee on Civil Liberties has chosen to deal with the same legal framework in its report on reporting requirements in the extractive industry. After some discussion between the committees, it was agreed that the Committee on Civil Liberties would deal with this particular area of law. The report also deals with a general exercise. Mr President, I would like to According to chapter 19. the Insurance Business Act may in some cases be carried out by the supervisory authority of another EEA country in the case of Swedish insurance undertakings. The committee has asked the KU to give an opinion on whether this particular statute should be decided by qualified majority, equal to the 10th chapter of the government. 6 – 8 §§. In its opinion, the KU considered that this was not necessary in the present case. This report contains two specific opinions. Mr President, I would like to The Solvency II Directive is a complex and comprehensive piece of legislation in the field of insurance. It is based on an EU directive with the same name. To a large extent, there are many proposals for changes of a purely technical nature. It is a full harmonisation directive, which means that the whole directive is to be adopted in the legislation of each Member State. The main changes concerned are the Insurance Business Act. The aim of the law is ultimately to ensure that insurance undertakings meet their obligations and thereby provide policyholders with a high level of protection. Stable insurance undertakings can also contribute to the stability of the entire financial system. Mr President, I would like to There are clear similarities between the Solven II framework and the rules for banks, the so-called Basel framework. However, there are significant differences. Banking regulation focuses primarily on financial stability while Solven II aims to protect policyholders. The Basel rules focus on the asset side and have separate models for credit risk, market risk and operational risk. Instead, the Solvency II Directive aims at a holistic approach that takes account of the balance sheet as a whole, but also of inter-risk dependencies. Mr President, I would like to The proposals can be divided very roughly into three parts. Firstly, issues relating to assets, liabilities and technical provisions and investments are addressed. Secondly, corporate governance is dealt with. Thirdly, it is society's supervision of the insurance sector. The really big change in Solven II is that insurance companies should now not only have an annual report in the usual way but also have to make a solvency balance sheet. The book value of this solvency balance sheet is not taken up without the full market value. Furthermore, the capital buffer currently in place is to be removed. Instead, the current capital buffer shall be included in the Solvency Capital Requirement. Unlike the current regulatory framework, the new regulatory framework means not only assessing the risks related to the liability side but also the risks on the asset side and, not least, how the asset and liability side interact. In addition to current Solvency Capital Requirement insurance risks, Solven II Solvency Capital Requirement will also cover market, credit and operational risks. Mr President, I would like to The capital requirements of the Solven II framework are more sophisticated and better adapted to the actual level of risk of individual companies. Incentives to manage their risks increase as the level of risk is directly linked to the cost of capital for companies. In addition, Solven II provides some flexibility by providing, under certain conditions, own models for setting capital requirements in whole or in part. Mr President, I would like to With regard to corporate governance, each insurance undertaking shall review the system to ensure that the company is governed in a responsible manner, where the senior management and the board of directors and its replacements are appropriate. They shall also be responsible for compliance, internal audit and actuarial functions. Insurance undertakings shall ensure that they establish and follow policy documents for risk management, internal control, internal audit, activities covered by mandate agreements, reporting to the Financial Supervisory Authority, quality control, management of conflicts of interest and changes to the internal model of the companies. Mr President, I would like to The Solvency II framework introduces in part a new and harmonised supervisory process. In particular, the supervisory authority should be better able to identify problem firms. In particular, supervision should be more proactive and focused on assessments of corporate governance systems and rules for capital calculation, governance and risk management. It obliges companies to submit more comprehensive reports of various kinds and to publish information on companies. In the case of insurance undertakings forming part of a group, a new and expanded supervision, known as group supervision, is introduced. For insurance undertakings operating in several EEA countries, a group supervisor may be appointed in the EEA. Mr President, I would like to There is ongoing preparation in the Government Office of a new proposal for regulation for occupational pension companies. The study proposes, among other things, that insurance undertakings providing only occupational pension benefits should be given a temporary opportunity to transform them under the new regulation. If this becomes a reality, current insurance undertakings should not have to change the basic regulatory framework more than once. The Solvency II Directive provides for transitional arrangements. The Government therefore proposes that occupational pension companies be allowed to apply the older rules for up to four years. The specific opinions concern these transitional rules. It is considered that they are not appropriate, for different types of insurance undertakings will, over a number of years, have different regulatory frameworks for life insurance companies and pension insurance undertakings. The majority understand this objection but, in an overall assessment, have nevertheless concluded that an exception is a reasonable solution at the moment. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject the motion.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-212	Mr President, I would like to Börje Vestlund has explained in detail what the Solven II Directive means and what it consists of. I beg your indulgence that I will repeat myself in part when I give my view of the bill. The FiU7 report therefore concerns the Government proposal for the implementation of the Solven II Directive in the field of insurance. We are in favour of the proposal and feel that it is good that this is now being implemented, given the shortcomings in the area of the current regulatory framework. Essentially, there are shortcomings in the ability to assess risks in insurance undertakings and the lack of clear rules on governance and risk management. Today, the regulatory framework does not take into account asset-side risks when calculating the buffer capital requirement. Nor is there any requirement to market assets and liabilities. Thus, this means that the image of the solvency of an insurance company is not necessarily fair. This is, of course, to the detriment of both the individual policyholder and the individual companies. In a broader perspective, it also means that the risk picture in the insurance market may be misleading, and any imbalances may be more difficult to identify with the current regulatory framework. It is therefore a good thing that Solven II is now being implemented, although it may have some negative effects. Börje began by discussing precisely the paradox that we are talking about more complicated rules while in other areas we want less regulation. It is one of the drawbacks that might exist. This, in turn, leads to cost driving, and it ultimately affects the policyholder. Costs are also driven by higher capital requirements. But we think it is counterproductive to have more robust companies. There is a risk that policyholders will have less insurance content and a risk of less liquidity in financial markets as a whole. On the other hand, incentives for diversification are being created to provide capital for other financing opportunities. These are some examples of the fact that the new regulatory framework does not necessarily only have positive effects. Nevertheless, the assessment is undisputed that the new regulatory framework is beneficial, and I might add that the insurance industry itself also feels that the Solven II framework is good and welcomes its implementation. As Börje Vestlund was concerned with, the new regulatory framework means quantitative rules regarding how assets and liabilities are valued, how the capital requirement is to be calculated and how it can be invested. A new type of balance sheet, called the Solvency Balance Sheet, is introduced with the aim of providing a more fair picture of the position of insurance companies. All assets, liabilities and commitments must be recorded at the current market value. The regulatory framework also provides qualitative rules on governance and risk management. Insurance companies are required to make a documented assessment of their own risk and solvency. They shall also have effective and effective corporate governance systems. There shall be systems and functions for risk management, compliance and internal audit. There are also rules for reporting and publication. The purpose of this is to contribute to increased discipline among insurance undertakings, and this in turn will create a healthier operating environment. All of this is, of course, good, especially in view of the experience we have of the shortcomings of the financial market in measuring and balancing the ratio between return and risk. The financial crisis from which we have not yet fully recovered was a painful reminder of this very thing, but there are also experiences of more limited and isolated crises that we can learn from. Let me therefore remind you of the life-company crisis of the beginning of the 21st century. There is nothing that has been corrected so that we can completely rule out this repetition. On the contrary, several parameters are in place to do so again. Having said that, it is particularly good that the regulatory framework is in place, not least in order for insurance companies themselves to have better control and control of their own business. Oversight is also improved. We therefore believe that this regulatory framework will create incentives to measure and manage risks, which will promote the protection of policyholders. The aim is also to promote more robust insurance companies and ultimately promote financial stability. To achieve this, however, it is assumed that everyone is covered by the same regulatory framework. This hampers Finansinspektionen's operations and opportunities for assessments of individual companies' risk situation, as well as the ability to make a risk assessment for the entire insurance market, which ultimately hampers supervision for financial stability unless all are covered by the same regulatory framework. The whole market must be subject to transparency and supervision. It is therefore with great concern that we note that derogations are made through the transitional arrangements to an extent that is significant. The order of magnitude 80% of the life insurance sector or equivalent to up to 1 500 billion is excluded. This therefore risks undermining the objective of the Solven II framework. Let me remind you of international examples where states have been forced to intervene precisely because of too low capital requirements. Experience from the Netherlands, where some pension institutions have had lower requirements compared to others, shows that these institutions have subsequently been subject to financial resolution to an extent equivalent to two out of three companies. Finansinspektionen also points out that the risks in the occupational pension business of life insurance companies do not differ significantly from those in other activities. In view of the increasing importance of occupational pensions for future pensioners and for the national economy, it is therefore with concern that we note that the transitional rules risk countering precisely what the Solven II framework wanted to tackle. In addition to the arbitrary nature of the individual policyholder and his future pension, there are also obvious risks of less supervision and less supervision. As a result, the possibilities for macro-prudential supervision are hampered, which in turn, in other words, poses risks to financial stability. In addition to this, there is also a difficult and unhealthy competitive situation. Fulfilment of competition with a level playing field is in itself essential for a diversified and functioning market. This is also to the benefit of the policyholder and for the benefit of a healthy and stable insurance market that also benefits financial stability. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, let me call for the proposal in the report to be approved, even if we happen to have a specific opinion on the basis of what has just been said. In this connection, too, let me send out a signal of genuine concern for these exceptions. My hope is that the Government, the Financial Supervisory Authority and the insurance industry will take this to heart and have it in their minds and that developments in the future will be followed carefully so that there is a willingness to act if necessary. Above all, I assume that the transitional rules are precisely transitional rules and that the implementation of the Solven II framework without undue delay is finally carried out in the entire field of insurance, for the benefit of individual policyholders, of course, and in order to ensure robust insurance undertakings, but also for the benefit of financial stability.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-235	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for biphale l to our reservations 1 and 2. Maintenance support is an important part of family policy. The support should ensure the needs of children and require both parents to be financially responsible. It is therefore important that the aid is designed to achieve the desired effects. Every year about 50,000 children are involved in a family separation. All in all, nearly half a million children have divorced parents, equivalent to about a quarter of all children. More than 30 percent of the children of separated parents live alternately, 60 percent live with the mother and 10 percent with the father. In Sweden there are two separate regulations that regulate the child's right to maintenance from the parent who does not live with the child permanently. One is the civil law framework, which relates to maintenance, and the other is the public law framework, which relates to the maintenance support that the Social Insurance Agency administers. Many children would receive more maintenance per month if their parents instead of allowing maintenance to be regulated via the maintenance allowance at Försäkringskassan chose to calculate a maintenance allowance according to the standards of the Parental Code. At the same time, the level of maintenance support is highly normative even among the parents who do maintenance without the Social Insurance Agency's involvement. Studies show that there is a very small correlation between the income of parents and the size of the maintenance allowance. In this bill, the Government proposes that full maintenance support should no longer be provided if, for at least six consecutive months, the dependent parent has paid the amount determined in accordance with certain provisions of the Social Security Code, in the correct order. We believe that this proposal puts itself on the wrong side of the problem. The proposal that full maintenance support should no longer be provided in some cases does not solve the basic problem of an absent parent who does not fully assume his financial responsibility. On the contrary, the proposal runs the risk of being conflict-driven as parents are more likely to take responsibility for agreeing and managing financial transactions related to maintenance. It must be considered best for children somewhere if conflicts between parents can be counteracted as much as possible. The rules on maintenance are relatively complex, and many choose the more secure maintenance support over higher but less secure amounts. The option of allowing a court to decide on maintenance is usually time-consuming, expensive and uncertain. The maintenance support system has been subject to follow-up and review on several occasions since its introduction. Among other things, Försäkringskassan and Riksrevisionen have highlighted in several reports various problems and consequences of the maintenance support rules, and we think that they should be addressed. For example, the state inquiry Continued parents – about responsibility, finances and cooperation for the child's sake, which came in 2011, concluded that current family financial support is actually a conflict between parents who are separated. The report, like us, said that maintenance support needs to be fundamentally redesigned. Today's system of maintenance support is not working well enough, which is why we see a clear need for reform that means clearer personal responsibility for children's finances. The maximum amount of maintenance aid has come to be perceived as a normal level of what is to be paid in the form of maintenance to a child, and this despite the fact that four out of ten children who today receive full maintenance support would actually be entitled to more maintenance if the rules on maintenance had been complied with. We therefore propose that an investigation should be set up with the task of fundamentally redesigning today's construction with maintenance and maintenance support. Of course, the best thing is if the parents can get along. However, if the parents cannot agree on maintenance, instead of today's model, which is based on the child's financial needs in relation to the parents' financial ability, we want to see a more neutral, objective and predictable calculation of the amount of maintenance. It should be based on a certain, pre-determined percentage of the absent parent's income. Of course, in cases where a parent has no income or very low income, a guaranteed minimum level should continue to be deleted. Mr President, I would like to The benefits of such a model are that the new system is easily transparent, predictable, reduces financial conflicts between parents, strengthens the single economy and increases incentives for alternate housing. Not least, there is also a clear gender perspective in the proposal.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-246	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation No 3. The Swedish Democrats are a family-friendly party. We put the family, and not least the children, at the forefront. Maintenance support is of great importance for many families, and the Swedish Democrats fully support the government's increase in support to SEK 1,573. We have also made this clear in our own budget motion. We also support an annual review of the level to ensure good and sustainable conditions for families with children. We believe that this is one of the reasons why these important issues cannot be sidelined. An important part of the family's security is that the private economy goes together. A stable family economy ensures security on many levels and is a prerequisite for everyday life with children to function in a way that does not adversely affect either the well-being of parents or children. Today we can take a number of measures to improve the current approach. The number of parents who use Försäkringskassan as an intermediary for the payment of maintenance support must be eliminated for several reasons. Mr President, I would like to Allowing the parent liable to pay directly to the other parent, without the unnecessary involvement of the Social Insurance Agency, should be fundamental in a country that calls itself family-friendly. In addition, it may be added that through this possibility the Swedish Social Insurance Agency can avoid bureaucracy that risks being both time-consuming and costly. If there is a conflict between parents, there should of course be an opportunity to use the Social Insurance Agency to ensure that the child or child is cared for.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-250	Mr President, I would like to Separations are difficult, especially when children are involved. After all, all parents want the best interests of their children, and there will be problems if association and the economy are used as a way of counteracting the other party. It does not happen all too rarely that one party wants to create problems for the other party, but it is not one that is affected. Instead, it is the children who are most affected in this context. As far as the economy is concerned, it is the children who live with the parent who does not get enough money that is going to be difficult. Then the maintenance allowance from Försäkringskassan is a guarantee that you will get an income at all instead of arguing with the other party that you want more, which, as I said, goes out over the children. We know that households with single parents have the worst financial situation, and it is mainly women who make up those households. So it is the children who live with their mother who have the worst financial situation, and it is usually because the father does not pay what he has the opportunity and the conditions for. When we introduced the job tax deduction, the income of the vast majority of families increased. However, they did not increase too single, and above all not for single women with children. It shows that the men did not share with their children. The special study concluded that the family's finances would increase by SEK 1 000 per month if the fathers, or the other parent, were to share to the extent permitted by the economy. Conversation before separation is very important for both parents to hear what financial conditions they have after the separation. It's also about how the conversations are to be done. How many per cent of your income should you pay for the child you do not have permanent residence with? What happens if what is proposed in the report, namely that the Social Insurance Agency should be in charge of this, does not work? What amount should be the guaranteed minimum level to pay? There are many other questions about this with the maintenance support, the maintenance allowance and the combination of them. In addition, the Government writes that all the proposals contained in the report should be followed up and that the result depends on the outcome of the decision we are now going to take in Parliament. The government says it intends to return and correct what may have been wrong. Mr President, I would like to I know this wording. Last week we debated quota parental insurance, and the same was said in that report. And I'm going to say the same thing now as I said then. For us in the Center Party, it is important to do right from the start, to make a full investigation and include everything that concerns in this case the support for the children that parents do not live with. That is why I say this: why is the government only looking at a small part when the issue of financial responsibility for children is much greater? The minister is not here, but I turn to her government colleagues and say, "Do it again, do it right!" Take overall responsibility for this with the economy for children. It is so very important not to divide it into small parts that will then be changed and corrected. This creates concern for families, the families that are most economically vulnerable. With this, Mr President, I support the reservation and reject the proposal contained in the report.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-257	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 4 and for the proposal in the report to be rejected. In the Bill Increased regulation of child maintenance outside maintenance support, the Government proposes that Försäkringskassan be given an extended mandate to provide parents with information and support on matters relating to child maintenance and maintenance obligations, and that maintenance support should no longer be provided if the person liable for the benefit has paid the amount determined for a certain period of time in the correct order to Försäkringskassan. The government also proposes that the so-called social allowance be abolished. The maintenance aid was introduced on 1 February 1997 and replaced the grant advance. It is left to the children of divorced parents until the month in which the child reaches the age of 18. The maintenance aid is not a contribution in the usual order but is intended as temporary support. The state takes over the responsibility of a parent after a separation if the couple does not agree on the common livelihood of the children. The aid is paid by the State to the so-called resident parent. The amount shall then be repaid by the beneficiary. We Christian Democrats believe that maintenance aid should be designed in such a way that it is clear that it is primarily the parents who have the financial responsibility for their children. According to the separate investigation, which the previous government with the Christian Democrats appointed, there is a large proportion of parents who use the maintenance system, although they do not really need it. The study also believes that financially vulnerable children of divorced parents would be much better off if the parents voluntarily agreed on maintenance support instead of the state maintenance allowance. According to estimates, the economically most vulnerable children would have an average of $1,000 more per month if the parents agreed to regulate maintenance for the children themselves instead of receiving maintenance support. Even after the increase in maintenance support, there is reason to believe that there are considerable amounts of money every month that financially vulnerable children are deprived of because of the design of maintenance support and how it is used today. The Christian Democrats want parents to be given advice and support to agree more on maintenance contracts instead of regulating maintenance via maintenance support and therefore the state. That is why we have contributed in government to the fact that the cooperation talks that municipalities are obliged to provide also address financial issues relating to the child. More needs to be done, however, and we are therefore in favour of the Government's proposal that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency should be given an extended mandate to inform parents on matters related to maintenance support and maintenance. We also believe that the parents are the ones who have the primary responsibility for the livelihood of the children, not the state. We therefore support the Government's proposal that maintenance aid should not be granted unless there are special reasons and if the debtor proves that he has paid the correct amount to the Social Insurance Agency for six consecutive months. The task of the public authority is first and foremost to look after the child, but the financial situation of both parents and the ability to support the child must be taken into account. In Försäkringskassan's re-reporting of maintenance aid assignments, it was found that it was then about 4 per cent of those who were required, corresponding to approximately 7,000 persons, who had a significantly lower current income compared to the taxed income. In order to avoid that parents end up with the bailiff, the repayment obligation for maintenance support should be calculated on a more up-to-date basis so as to take account of changes in income. The financial situation of the child is affected by the situation of both parents, which is also highlighted in the Särvavårdska inquiry. The government should have made proposals that also take into account the financial situation of the dependent parent. Mr President, I would like to In essence, we support the Government's proposal that more parents should regulate maintenance directly between themselves. However, we believe that the government does not take full account of the fact that the design of the support systems can in itself act as a source of conflict between parents. The impact of this proposal on the development of parental conflicts after separation should be closely monitored. According to the report of the Severity Investigation, approximately one tenth of those parents who have separated significant difficulties in cooperating. The Government intends to closely monitor the development of the proposal regarding how it works to induce more parents to regulate maintenance directly between themselves, but also how common it is that withdrawal of maintenance support will be followed by a new application for maintenance support. These are important issues to follow up. More importantly, however, it is important to monitor how children's financial situation is affected in both the short and long term. Even a single month's departure from maintenance obligations can have major consequences, not least for the most economically vulnerable children. Several consultation bodies also point to the risk that dependent parents will deliberately lag behind with their payments in order to prevent the suspension of maintenance support. The government quite easily dismisses this concern expressed, among others, by the Social Security Inspection, the ISF. We believe that no matter how high the risk is, there is a risk of serious consequences for the children affected. We therefore believe that sanctions should be imposed on the parent who thus avoids taking full responsibility for his or her livelihood.
i-PpnPVStMq99i2EsS9hWRUU	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal for a decision and rejection of the motions. The proposal is based on the report of the special investigation. The report made considerations based on, among other things, the maintenance system. Following the Ministry Letter "Enhanced support for maintenance regulation", a working group has presented an assessment of which actions are most appropriate for providing parents with such support. And there have been proposals for measures to clarify the responsibility of parents for the livelihood of children. Mr President, I would like to In several investigations and in the Swedish National Audit Office's review, it has emerged that parts of the maintenance support system are not used in the way it was intended. For almost 50 per cent of the full amount of contributions, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency acts as an intermediary who transfers maintenance between parents. This adversely affects children's right to maintenance as many children would receive more in maintenance if the child's parents chose to make maintenance payments instead of maintenance payments. There will also be unnecessary administrative costs for Försäkringskassan. It is the parents who are dependent on their children. As a rule, parents know this, but they do not know that there are two different legal frameworks, civil law and public law. The terms ‘maintenance' and ‘maintenance' are often considered to have the same meaning, and the level of maintenance support is highly normative even among the parents who do the maintenance without the involvement of the Social Insurance Agency. It has also been shown that there is a very small correlation between the income of parents and the amount of the maintenance allowance, although parents feel that maintenance should be adapted to their income. Therefore, there is a need to design the conditions for maintenance support so that it becomes clear that this is a state aid intended for those who need it – not a system for brokering maintenance in order to make it easier and for parents not to have to cooperate on the child's livelihood. It is also important to bear in mind that, for reasons of convenience, it is not intended to be possible to choose maintenance support when there are economic as well as cooperation conditions to agree on maintenance. That is why, Mr President, it is proposed that full maintenance support should no longer be provided if, for at least six consecutive months and in the right order, the parent liable for the benefit has paid the amount to the Social Insurance Office, which has been determined in accordance with certain provisions of the Social Security Code. This shall also apply to extended maintenance support. Of course, maintenance aid shall not be suspended if there are special reasons. Such reasons may exist in relation to the situation of both the child and the parents. If the parents do not agree on the maintenance issue, maintenance can be applied for again. Since a search can be made again, the living parent or the child's livelihood should not be jeopardised. Of course, there may be parents who deliberately lag behind with their payments to prevent maintenance support being withdrawn, but this risk should not be exaggerated. Information and support on economic issues has been neglected. As a result, knowledge is too low on these issues. This applies, in particular, to the maintenance obligation and to the fact that it can be regulated in different ways. That is why, Mr President, the Social Insurance Agency is given an extended mandate to provide parents with information and support on matters relating to child maintenance and child maintenance obligations. If parents are helped to clarify the economic conditions in connection with separation, the risk of conflict should be reduced. In the long term, both parents increase their responsibility for caring for the child. The child perspective is also strengthened when the support is designed more effectively. Of course, the impact of the proposals must be monitored and evaluated. All concerned should be informed that maintenance support is not provided on an up-to-date basis and therefore a regulation on written notification is introduced. Mr President, I would like to The social security allowance has had no appreciable effect on children's association with the dependent parent. The deduction is used to a small extent, and the deduction leads to a divided view of how the child's needs are to be met. For parents it can mean locked positions, which makes it difficult to cooperate well on the child's livelihood. It is therefore proposed that the deduction be abolished. It is in line with the view that parents themselves should take responsibility for agreeing on the child's maintenance when there are conditions for it. Today, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency does not have to demand interest in the event of a shorter delay. As a result of this application, dependent parents may have almost five months in debt for maintenance support without having to pay interest. It is therefore proposed that interest be paid in these cases but not in cases where the parent has been deferred. This proposal considers that parents are better placed to regulate their payment obligations.
i-NwxkNCxyK7mRVrf2mXTc6p	Mr President, I would like to I call again for the motion to be approved and for the motion to be rejected.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-289	Mr President, I would like to In his speech, Patrik Engström refers to the negative effects that maintenance support has on children in particular. Now the government parties Social Democracies and the Green Party are putting forward proposals which we think are pushing the wrong side of the problem. It does not solve the problem of an absent parent who does not accept his financial responsibility. Maintenance support has been criticised for its construction for a long time. Försäkringskassan, Riksrevisionen and the State investigation from 2011 show that something needs to be done with the maintenance support – not what you propose, to dunk a little here and there, but the construction must be made fundamentally because it is conflict-driven for separated parents. The maximum level of maintenance support has become the norm level regardless of whether you choose maintenance support or maintenance support as a form. Four out of ten children who receive full maintenance support do not receive as much in financial support as they would be entitled to if the maintenance standard were complied with. Why, then, can the Social Democrats not go along with our and the Center Party's proposal to review the entire maintenance allowance in order to overcome the problem? It is basically a question of children's economic rights.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-294	Mr President, I would like to I thank Tina for the question. This issue is not new. This is what it's been like for quite some time. That is why we commission Försäkringskassan to provide relevant information so that parents can more easily agree on maintenance. I am convinced that the maintenance allowance will be quite different from what it is today. As you say, it's normative. That's what it looks like today. However, as the Social Insurance Agency receives this assignment and the parents receive the right information, it will look different.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-297	Mr President, I would like to Patrik said that Försäkringskassan should increase its information so that parents can get along better on their own and without Försäkringskassan's involvement. We are not opposed to that. It is good that Försäkringskassan provides parents with information. That's what we're behind. Our criticism is that you are proposing something for which there is no demand. What you are proposing does not solve the problem of four out of ten children not receiving the financial support they are entitled to from the absent parent. As maintenance support has become normal and maintenance support has therefore ended up at this level, it does not matter what information is provided. Rather, your proposal will lead to a further increase in the conflict. I therefore ask again: why can you not follow the Moderates and the Center Party in this and set up an investigation to review the entire maintenance support?
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-302	Mr President, I would like to The issue has been examined in, among other things, the so-called "Särvillare" investigation, and the proposal is based on that report. We believe that information is a way forward. There are things in every system that you need to watch at regular intervals. As I said, it is important for parents to be informed of their obligations. Hopefully, this will help to reduce conflicts. So our point of departure is that information will solve a great deal of the problems.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-306	Mr President, I would like to I hear some doubts from the Social Democrats about how good the proposal is. It sounds a little tentative, if I'm going to be honest. I understand that. If it had been crystal clear that the proposal put forward by the Feral Investigation could have been carried out right up and down, the Alliance Government would have done so – I can assure you that. There were some things that they had not found real solutions to, and that would continue to be investigated. The government wants the parents to decide jointly. Yet maintenance aid is allowed to be the least economically possible level, so to speak. Then it must still be the norm. We can read in the statements in the report that many will make use of this as they can adapt their circumstances to it. Then I wonder: would it not be better to do as we propose, namely look at the whole picture and see if you can find any percentage of the income that the other parent should pay? I think it is good that parents are informed, but in the situation they find themselves in, there are often conflicts. Is Försäkringskassan the best in this context, or would the social services perhaps handle it so that you can talk about social relations and economics at the same time?
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-311	Mr President, I would like to I thank Solveig Zander. In the underlying investigation, it is just as Roland Utbolt raised. The municipalities are obliged to have conversations these days. It is also a step in getting along. There is no explicit mandate for the talks to solve economic issues, but the assessment is that the Social Insurance Agency is the authority that is best placed to do so. We have therefore come to the conclusion that Försäkringskassan should be given an extended assignment that means that information and support should be provided to the parents. It cannot be conflict-driven, but it must be positive in our view.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-314	Mr President, I would like to It was interesting to hear that you divide the two things. I have nothing against and we have not reserved for the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to inform us about the economic conditions and the regulations that apply. At present, this is the best possible. We know and we have already heard in the debate that it is conflict-driven to separate and that children are being squeezed. Socialising, economics and the way you look at the children's needs, even though you don't live with them every day, are things that go hand in hand. Economics, social relations and children's welfare and woe belong together in their entirety. When the Social Democrats say that it should be separated at present, I wonder: Do you not see the whole thing? Is this what you should investigate and follow up and see what the outcome of it will be? Wouldn't it have been better to wait and instead have a whole economy and everything related to social relations and find a way for parents to get along without involving the Social Insurance Agency and giving them that job as well?
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-317	Mr President, I would like to We have landed in this proposal and we think it is well balanced. We will, of course, review the outcome, and we are no stranger to coming back and taking further steps to increase incentives for parents to take responsibility. That is how we look at this.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-319	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the proposal to be approved in the committee's report. Today, the maintenance support system is used in a way that was not intended. A change is therefore needed in order to make it clear that this is a state aid intended for those who need it and not a maintenance brokering system. There it is the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, which today too much functions as a mere intermediary that transfers maintenance between parents. If dependent parents who have the ability to pay their full amount of payment instead pay maintenance directly to the resident parent, significant savings in the administrative costs of the Social Insurance Agency could be made. This would represent 17% of the total administrative cost of maintenance aid per year. A fundamental idea of the reform of the maintenance support is to emphasise both parents' responsibility for and care for the child. The perspective of children's rights is also strengthened when parental support is more effectively and individually designed. Increasing the conditions for regulating maintenance outside the maintenance support system should also benefit the child, inter alia by enabling the child to receive the maintenance to which it is entitled under the provisions of the Parental Code. In addition, more such civil law regulations can promote a development in which the amount of maintenance aid will in future be less norm-based at the level of maintenance. The proposed amendments are intended to make it easier for parents to agree on the child's care and livelihood. Basically, I believe in the parent's willingness to get along for the child's good. But sometimes they need a little help along the way. Therefore, the proposal also includes an extended task for the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to inform and support parents on matters relating to maintenance and maintenance obligations and to assist with the civil settlement of maintenance support. It has been found that one third of the parents liable for the maintenance support scheme already have the financial capacity to repay the entire maintenance support provided. This should also be regulated in civil law without the Social Insurance Agency being used as a transfer agency. If the dependent parent is able to meet his or her financial commitment for six months, the maintenance allowance shall be suspended unless there are special reasons. The risk that dependent parents may deliberately lag behind with their payments in order to prevent the suspension of maintenance support, which a number of exercisers fear, should not be exaggerated. The measures proposed by the government as a whole, I believe, are sufficient to encourage parents to assume their responsibilities in the vast majority of cases.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-331	Mr President, I would like to Reducing the costs of Försäkringskassan is important, because it is an authority that costs the state a great deal. Reducing 17% in the area of maintenance aid is a very good thing. But I have to ask the Green Party: What is the cost of the expanded tasks that the Social Insurance Agency receives? It is about informing parents and helping them in the financial aspects related to the maintenance allowance and the compensation for the children where they live and also helping in the legal process – we also heard that just now. How much does the expanded tasks of Försäkringskassan cost? I also hear how much you press – both from the Green Party and from the Social Democrats – that the Social Insurance Agency informs about this with economics. Why were you not equally interested in contributing to increased information about the gender equality bonus?
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-334	Mr President, I would like to Solveig Zander asks what it costs to inform the parents when it comes to maintenance support. I can't answer that question. But I can say this: it is better to spend money on informing parents about this than to spend money on transfers between parents. It must nevertheless be much better, because then you use the money in a much more sensible way. Some alliance representatives, including Solveig Zander, request that we do a more extensive investigation of maintenance support. There's supposed to be an investigation here and there. Then my question is: why didn't you do it for eight years in the alliance government, if you thought it was so important? You could have done that. Now this government is taking this issue in a reasonable manner, as we think, and making the changes that we judge need to be made. At the same time, we say: If further changes are needed in the future, if there is something that we have missed, we take it to heart and can come up with additional changes if necessary. Mr Zander also said that we were making half-ready proposals. I remember the time you spent in the government and the sickness allowance. You sprayed out regulatory changes every two weeks that were really half finished, and the Social Insurance Agency tore its hair. You did that for about three years. It was a mess of regulatory changes that no one could understand and no one could interpret, and the Social Insurance Office had to go back and ask what you meant by your regulatory changes. Don't tell us we're making half-finished rule changes!
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-337	Mr President, I would like to I immediately throw the ball back to the Green Party and say: The investigation that formed the basis for the changes we made was well known. That inquiry was set up by the Social Democratic Government, and it was Anna Hedborg who made the proposal. That investigation had been working for a long time. If it was news and was carelessly done, I throw the ball back and say: It was the previous government that had to take on that responsibility. Rickard Persson did not answer why they did not want to inform about the gender equality bonus. And should you not know what costs you impose on an authority that is under heavy financial pressure when you introduce new tasks? Or should it come as a request for an increased budget from Försäkringskassan to be added afterwards? That is one way of showing that the proposal that is now coming is not sufficiently well-examined. If I am not mistaken, the latest part of the follow-up investigations came from the Särvårdsutningen 2014. I'm sorry we weren't allowed to continue that job. But we'll be back in 2018 – and then we'll be right from the start!
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-340	Mr President, I would like to There was a time when you imposed on Försäkringskassan a number of new tasks that you did not have cost estimates, because you felt that the Försäkringskassan could manage them within the framework, Solveig Zander. I also believe that this information task is not at all as burdensome for such a large authority as the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and that it should be able to be carried out within a framework. If the Försäkringskassan doesn't think so, they'll have to come back with some sort of request, and we'll have to take a stand on it then.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-341	Mr President, I would like to When Mom and Dad got divorced, I had to stop riding. Mom couldn't afford it. But it was okay, because she stopped smoking, because she couldn't afford it either. We had to sort of take care of each other and give up things both of us. The hardest part was when my stepsister started riding in my old stable, because my dad could afford it. For a while I hated her, but it wasn't really her fault. These words are Amanda. Her parents divorced when she was ten years old. Now she's 19. The idea is not that children should have to suffer in this way. The parent who earns the most should provide child support in relation to his or her income. Unfortunately, however, knowledge about maintenance regulation is low, and many people use the public-law maintenance support to regulate maintenance, even though they are in a position to regulate maintenance in civil matters. Many also seem to believe – as has been pointed out – that maintenance support is the rule even when parents regulate maintenance themselves, so that sum has become the norm, become a ceiling. Children of divorced parents are more at risk of financial vulnerability than the children of parents living together. We know that. For us liberals, the starting point is that parents have a shared responsibility to care for and support their children even if they live apart. The Alliance government took several initiatives to encourage and facilitate parents to cooperate on issues of custody, association, housing and finances. The SSA, which several have mentioned here today, said that 41% of the children currently receiving full maintenance support would receive more in maintenance support than the amount of maintenance support if maintenance were regulated in civil law. This is particularly true for children in the three lowest income groups, where 90% would get an improvement. For those in the lowest income group, it could mean an average of $1,000 more a month. The fact that parents themselves make maintenance contracts would therefore often mean greater improvements for children with divorced parents than, for example, increases in maintenance support could result. That is why this proposal is so important. However, the level of maintenance support is of great importance to children whose parents, despite better support, do not cooperate on the child's finances. That is why the level of maintenance aid should be increased, but this is another discussion that we are not taking today. It is about adults who – usually – have made a joint decision about having children together. Having a child is a lifelong mission. I sometimes hear friends say that they are not quite ready to take the big step of getting married, but children can easily have. That's a little strange reasoning. Divorce can be done and then never talk to each other again if you don't have children, because then you need to be able to cooperate. We Liberals assume that people both want and can take responsibility for their lives. But to do so, knowledge is needed. The writings in the proposal to help parents sort out what applies are fully in line with what we want to see. In Norway there is a system where anyone who wants to divorce must first have a call before they can file a divorce request at all. A similar model that deals with what is happening and what is in practical terms would be positive on many levels, not least when it comes to conflicts between parents. This should happen in the municipalities, but it needs to be developed and done much more. I believe more in knowledge than in great regulation in order to be able to take more responsibility. Mr President, I would like to Amanda's parents should have settled between themselves instead of taking the detour through Försäkringskassan. It would have been better for Amanda, and it would have been better administratively – systems should not be used unnecessarily. Here's more information key. I support the committee's proposal.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-349	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates are a party that stands up for the individual's free choice, and we have long worked against quotas and for more opportunities for own influence. We are also a party that wants as many as possible of the political decisions that concern people to be made as close to people as possible. We are strongly in favour of municipal self-government, which means that municipalities should have a great opportunity to make their own decisions on municipal affairs. At the same time, we are also a party that is pragmatically and systematically working towards greater responsibility, for people's personal responsibilities, for the importance of self-sufficiency and order and order in society's economy. These are our starting points as to whether the municipal custody allowance should be abolished, as the government proposes. This question requires a balance between different interests. It is not possible to discuss the custody allowance without discussing at the same time the parental role and the responsibility that parents have for their children. Parental allowance is therefore a neighbouring area that contains many similarities with the issue of the custody allowance. Let me be clear that there is a major social problem linked to an uneven distribution of parental responsibility. We know that, for example, differences in the collection of parental benefit have far-reaching consequences for women's employment, wage developments and future pension income. There are clear indications that these differences also play a major role in the differences that we see in ill health and absenteeism between women and men. There are also objections to the custody allowance that are linked to the impact on gender equality. At the same time, however, we should be honest about the fact that there is no quota for solutions to all social problems. In addition, society must respect how different families spend their time outside the workplace. We want to create the conditions for each family to make balanced decisions that suit them. It also means that we as politicians have to accept that parents make different choices. It will vary, and it will also look different. But there is nothing remarkable about it. Families are actually different. As politicians, it is always easy to want to put life right from above, to point and steer. Most things can be addressed by another law or another government decision. But does this really lead to the diversity and responsibility that we want to achieve? The task of politics is to remove obstacles to parents and families being able to make wise choices in life. We are convinced that most families want the very best for their children. Then there may be different circumstances that make it not always easy to get there. As politicians, we can work to eliminate this. As I have said before, the Moderates are a party that tries to find solutions to various social problems in a pragmatic and thoughtful way. At the same time, all our policies are based on respect for man and people's own decisions. The issue of the custody allowance also has another dimension that I think we should not lose out. The question is whether municipalities should have the right to offer child care allowance as an alternative to other forms of childcare. The care allowance is not imposed on anyone but exists only for those who want to use it. The care allowance is very limited in scope, and is available in a small number of municipalities in Sweden. Yet, many parents testify that it has been important to them, so that they can spend more time on their children for a period of time and give them a good start in life. Other parents make other assessments and use preschool from the age of 12 months. It is a natural consequence of families being very different. Mr President, I would like to If we weigh all of this together, we will come to the conclusion that the Government's proposal involves a huge interference in people's right to make their own choices and in the municipalities' right to make their own decisions on municipal matters. That is why, Mr President, we are calling for the proposal to be rejected in the proposal and for reservation 1.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-362	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the SfU8 report of the Social Security Committee on proposal 2014/ 15:147, the municipal custody allowance is abolished. I can say, a bit like the previous speaker, that we were there again. Unfortunately, once again, we have reason to highlight the views of the left-wing parties on the ability of adults to take responsibility for their own lives. I do not think it is up to me to decide what is a suitable age to go to preschool with regard to the children of other families. I think the families are the best at deciding for themselves. In fact, even if I thought it was up to me to decide, I would be against the custody allowance. I think preschool is a very good option for a great many children. All my children have been in preschool and started there right after the parental allowance had ended. I myself went to preschool in Rinkeby, where I was born, and started when I was eight months old. And as you can see, it's gone pretty well. So I like preschool. But now it's not about me. It's not about you either. Because it is not our children that we are talking about here. We're talking about other people's children. And I do not think, as I said, that it is up to me or you to judge the age at which other people's children are mature for preschool. In fact, I think most people understand how crazy that line of thought is. But the custody allowance is a female trap, some say. That argument seems to me to hear the most. Then I have another piece of information to give. As I said, it is not your children that it is about, nor are my children. The same is true of women. They're not your women, and neither are mine. The women are their own. That also applies to men. With very few exceptions, parents are adults who have every opportunity to make their own decisions. There are, of course, a lot of things that you as a human being can have views on regarding other people's life choices. One might think, for example, that people should exercise more, eat more healthy food, watch less TV and so on. People have views and opinions on other people's lives, my President. It's okay. You can have it. But one must understand somewhere where the political boundary should be. It goes without saying to me that that limit goes beyond the front door of adults, with the exception of law enforcement, of course. The Swedish democrats' children's and family policy has a clear and thorough focus on children. It is deeply regrettable that it does not apply to all other parties. Children do not have the right to vote, and it is our damn duty as adults, as parents and as politicians to defend their interests. It is for the sake of children that we should have a wide range of alternatives for childcare. A wide range actually means that people will make different choices. I don't understand why it's so provocative. With regard to the Liberals again, and now also the Center Party, I would like to mention the following. As I said in my speech on compulsory quotas for parental insurance the other week, I do not seem to have understood anything about liberalism. I thought that liberalism on this issue would mean that one was in favour of more alternatives for the adult people who make up the decision-makers in a family, that one would be in favour of people's choice in other ways than if one had chosen for oneself. The party has also changed its name and is now called the Liberals, although it may be a few days away until a formal decision has been taken. The People's Party as a name was certainly a prime example of direct false marketing. But with the name change to the Liberals, they have probably surpassed themselves on that point. A party that should call itself the Liberals is for forced quotas and against freedom of choice. It's not without wondering if it's just a strange prank. It is for the children's sake that there should be a custody allowance as an alternative to other forms of care, so that families who consider that the best option for their unique children is to stay home a little longer before they start preschool have the opportunity to do so. It is something of a cliché, but it is quite true: children are the future of every society. Safe children today provide a safe and stable society tomorrow. The care allowance should not just remain. It should double. It should also be made equivalent throughout the country, so that more adults are allowed to make more informed choices for their lives and those of their children, so that more children are given the form of care that they need. Mr President, I would like to I request the approval of Amendments Nos 1 and 2.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-376	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to call for the proposal to be rejected and for our reservation to be approved. "J ag is very tired of talking kitchen table. This is what Minister of Social Security Annika Strandhäll said in the debate about a third parent month last week. In the debate, compulsory quotas were set against parents' right to decide for themselves on parental leave. I am very tired of talking to the kitchen table, was the minister's word. But it is at the kitchen table that decisions should be made on such matters. Parents must be granted the ability and the right to make their own decisions based on their particular situation. The left-wing government received unexpected support from the People's Party, which joined up with increased state interference and reduced parental decision-making rights. In fact, the People's Party charged three speakers to try to get the doubters to understand that the People's Party is still looking at the individual's freedom to decide over his or her life. But instead, the confusion over the People's Party line was probably even greater. The Social Democrats, for their part, repeatedly prove how low they value parenthood and family decision-making rights. When the custody allowance was first introduced in 1994, it was used by about 70 per cent of parents of young children. As soon as the Social Democrats came to power, it was removed. During the next twelve years of Social Democratic government, there was strong pressure for freedom of choice in childcare. Parental groups in some forty municipalities initiated referendums on freedom of choice in childcare, and where it was carried out there was a clear majority for more alternatives. Nacka Municipality created its own system for parents who want to stay home a little longer with their children. In 2008, a possibility was introduced for municipalities to introduce a tax-free custody allowance of up to SEK 3 000 per child per month for children between one and three years of age. It was a first and very important step in increasing support for families and in increasing family choice. The care allowance has been introduced in about half of the country's municipalities and has therefore not been possible for all parents to use. Several limitations and the relatively low level of compensation have also made it difficult for those who would have wanted to reduce working hours during early childhood years to use the custody allowance. Despite the fact that the child custody allowance has been severely circumscribed and thus difficult to take part in too many families with young children, it is a reform that provokes the left-wing government strongly. The first thing that happened after the turn of the government in 2014 was that the left-wing government, headed by the Social Democrats, again declared that the custody allowance would be abolished. However, there is strong support from the public and parents around the country for the choice of childcare facilities. According to a Novus survey from 2015, the information is clear: 47 percent are against the removal of the custody allowance. Even among the government's voters, more are opposed than to the removal of the custody allowance. More than 50% of the women want the custody allowance to remain. Only 25% of all respondents are in favour of removal. However, as in the case of compulsory quotas for parental insurance, this will is not something that the left-wing government cares about. And listen and be amazed, this time they get the support not only of the People's Party but also of the Center Party! The Center Party has left behind Thorbjörn Fälldin's popular appeal and is now a party dominated by other values. This is what Thorbjörn Fälldin said at the Centre Congress in Sundsvall 40 years ago: Politics must focus on giving parents greater freedom of choice so that they can choose between secular work outside the home and working with children's care at home. Thorbjörn Fälldin advocated a custody allowance that would serve as a basis for calculating sickness benefit and ATP points. The center party's turnaround is strange. That it is not Fälldin's thoughts that govern the party today may be happening, but in the Center Party's program of ideas it says that the Party is believing in every person's right and ability to shape their own future. That's why we want power to be as close to people as possible. Oops! The Center Party and the People's Party now join the Social Democrats, the Environmental Party and the Left Party and deviate from the Alliance's previous line and the other Alliance line. It's a very sad news, not for me – I can live with decisions going against me sometimes in the name of democracy – and not for the Christian Democrats in the first place, but for the parents who at the kitchen table made their own decisions on what they want to do. This is how one of the citizens, one of the inhabitants of Sweden, writes: I live in x municipality. I heard on the radio the other day that they want to remove the custody allowance. Yeah, we're gonna have to try and save days right now. I have to say, incredible, that each and every one of us adults should not be allowed to decide our own parental leave. They think it's a female trap. Oh, my God! It's up to everyone if they want to jump on it. The Christian Democrats want to move in the opposite direction to what the Social Democrats, the Environmental Party, the Center Party, the People's Party and the Left Party want. We Christian Democrats want to make it easier for families to put their own life puzzle and to choose to prioritise more time for children if they so wish. Those elections should be supported, not opposed. That is why we want to introduce a compulsory custody allowance in all municipalities. We allocate SEK 230 million to the municipalities for this purpose. In addition, we want to abolish the amount and age limit of the child care allowance. Municipalities should be able to decide for themselves whether they want to pay a higher amount or whether they want to pay child care allowance for children over three years of age. The care allowance is part of a freedom of choice package. The care allowance does not replace the publicly funded childcare facilities, but complements it. Publicly funded childcare should be of high quality and most will continue to want to use it. The main thing is that it is the parents who decide for themselves which care suits their children best. It is sad that the custody allowance today is abolished by a parliamentary decision – a freedom of choice reform that Alf Svensson so aptly called the more-time-for-children reform – and this against the parents' will. Instead, I want the custody allowance to be developed, made pensionable and offered to parents in all 290 municipalities in Sweden. We Christian Democrats are on the side of parents, families.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-391	Mr President, I would like to Given that the allowance is a loss-making affair for both women and society, it is with great pleasure that I call for its abolition and support for the committee's proposal in the SfU8 report. The first time the custody allowance was introduced was in July 1994, but it was abolished a few months later by the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party. In 2008, 14 years later, it was again time for the bourgeois government to establish the custody allowance. Today it is again abolished, this time in a broader consensus between the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Center Party, the Left Party and the People's Party. I hope that the sensible decision today will bury the custody allowance forever. Then you can ask why. Yeah, because the idea wasn't even basically good. The care allowance cements gender roles and stands in direct contrast to the work line. The care allowance affects women with the lowest income and contributes to increasing the pay gap between men and women. With the custody allowance, women are encouraged to stay at home with their children rather than be out of work. The custody allowance that we have had has not only been a brake on equality, but it has been a direct U-turn for the whole of equality and something that we have jointly subsidised and funded with government money. Mr President, I would like to It is not reasonable, not in substance and much less when you look at the reality, a reality where women take the main responsibility for children and homes, take out 80% of parental insurance, take out almost every VAB day with sick children. Women pay an unequal society with increased ill health. They have less career opportunities and a life's income of 3.6 million less than we men. In addition, they are exposed to a greater risk, from the point of view of the unequal society, of not being able to work until retirement. This will allow them to live the rest of their lives with very low pensions. That is the reality that we politicians must see and relate to. I think it is time for us to take a joint responsibility and settle this inequality once and for all. Politics is connected, and I am surprised when I hear the debate on custody allowances. I cannot understand how 2015 can be used to make this contribution when, for seven years, we have seen the clear negative effects on both labour supply and income, particularly among women with a weak position in the labour market and a weak economic position. In almost half of the families receiving child care allowance, women are more or less dependent on their partner for their livelihood. This helps to create and strengthen relationships where women depend on their husbands and families. These women's freedom is limited and, by extension, they risk having to be supported by society. Some here want to talk about freedom and try to put the issue on their own planet. But honestly, in SEB's 2013 statistics, the picture becomes very clear. More than 90 percent of those who applied for custody allowance were women. Parents with custody allowance had lower earnings both before and after the grant period. At the same time, the custody allowance leads to many children – not least children with foreign-born parents – who would really need the development and stimulation of preschools not receiving it. For me as a social democrat it becomes very clear. The care allowance can never be the answer to modern parents. It can never be an answer to women who want to be mothers and self-sufficient, who want to be able to choose both family and work. The care allowance can never be the answer to those fathers who want to be present, but who have not been able to take the chance. The care allowance cannot be a response to all the children who need both their parents. I am pleased that this afternoon we can abolish this Christian Democratic invention.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-400	Mr President, I would like to There is a clear dividing line between us, it becomes clear when I listen to Fredrik from the Social Democrats. I understand you're saying that we, who are responsible for the preservation of the custody allowance, are on another planet. I think it says something about your view of freedom of choice. You also say that the women who have chosen this with custody allowance become dependent on their husbands. The point for us is that you make the decisions together at the kitchen table. The family is a whole one that has to make the decisions: What are we going to do in the future? What do we want? Then we come to a joint decision on how to do it. As you point out, it is a matter of who has the highest salary. It can govern things, and so, like you, I think it is a pay issue for women who, during their lifetime, earn an average of nearly 4 million less than men do. It's a serious matter. But what do you say to those who e-mail and absolutely want to retain their ability to decide for themselves at the kitchen table? Are they on another planet too?
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-404	Mr President, I would like to The interesting thing is to hear how Roland Utbolt and the Christian Democrats view the custody allowance. Do the Christian Democrats not see any patterns and structures? In fact, these are very clear. The result after these years is that almost 100 percent of women are taking custody allowance. They are women with very low wages, and very many have foreign backgrounds. It will be a foreclosure effect. Instead of getting help into the labour market and helping to provide training, this reform is left in isolation. I think that the answer to those who have seen the custody allowance as a solution should be about better parental insurance, which we shall continue to develop, but also the importance of getting the help you need to get into the labour market and the need for children to develop. What I can almost think is the most serious thing about the custody allowance is that very many children with foreign-born parents do not get the start in life that they would need. For example, they do not get the language development that preschool gives to the other children. We've been critical from the beginning. We did what we could to try to ensure that the custody allowance would never become a reality. But now that you see the effects seven years later, Roland Utbolt, have you just thought of honking, when it is so clear that your line has not been successful?
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-407	Mr President, I would like to This is very interesting, I think. Fredrik Lundh Sammeli talks about effects. I'm thinking only from a child's perspective. I mean that we should have a good quality in preschool childcare. The care allowance is a complement. There are parents who want to be at home even though they thus earn less. 3 000 a month is not something you can really live on, but some simply give priority to spending an extra time with your children. I think that effect is important. As far as society as a whole is concerned, I can say that research suggests that the relationship between children and parents is extremely important in the first few years. Talking about a female trap is almost contemptible, I think. In fact, it is a matter of deciding to have a little more time for your children. What we are seeing today in society is an increase in mental illness among young people. We must somehow link it to the connection or at least be able to see that this can be included as part of the picture, that there is such a problem. I can't see that it would in any way be but for the children that you as a parent give extra time and choose to be with your children a little more and a little longer, despite a little lower compensation. We must grant parents the ability and the right to make those decisions.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-410	Mr President, I would like to I didn't get a direct question, but for us it's very clear that we're going to make the world's best parental insurance even better. We will give adults the opportunity to take a clear place in the labour market. We're gonna give kids a good upbringing and a good school. Politics must have the courage to invest in what you see has a clear effect in the direction you want when building a society. It is very clear to me that the custody allowance that we have had has not meant a reform that builds a more equal society and gives children a better start in life. One can look at how different groups have been affected by this reform, for which the Christian Democrats are turning so much. It has not led to freedom. There are very clear structures and patterns that I think politics has the task of challenging and managing. That is why it is no wonder either, I think, that more parties are joining that line today. The care allowance is not a reform for the future. The care allowance has been a short parenthesis in Swedish politics, and I hope it will remain so.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-413	Mr President, I would like to What can I say? One is a little shocked when one sits in the Chamber as moderate and suddenly hears a social democrat turning warm for the work line and labour supply. We have been talking about the importance of the work line for many years from the Moderate side. So far, we've had no response. I therefore welcome the fact that the Social Democrats are finally standing here in the speaker's seat talking about a work line and a labour supply. We think that is very welcome and good. But at the same time, we think this is somewhat hypocritical. You use the arguments a little when it suits you. In parallel, as you propose, the Social Democrats raise taxes by billions. You are expanding and rolling out the entire benefit systems. In what way does the labour supply increase when the government increases taxes that punish jobs, the work line and labour supply? Don't tell me the custody allowance has a lockdown effect! IFAU has presented a new report reviewing the custody allowance. IFAU argues that the abolition of the custody allowance has a very marginal effect on labour supply. And do you know why, Fredrik Lundh Sammeli? Because there aren't many people who use the custody allowance. There is freedom of choice in this, both for the municipalities and for the individuals. Is it not the case that the Social Democrats, in their fondness for quotas and control of people's lives, hide behind arguments about so-called labour supply but are actually against freedom of choice?
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-417	Mr President, I would like to Tina Ghasemi stood in the speaker's chair and said a lot of wise things in her speech. And yet she landed pretty crazy, even in a ditch. Why should we, as a country, subsidise a reform that cements gender roles and puts children at a disadvantage? Tina is highlighting a report. But there are a lot of interesting reports, even moderate reports. In one of your reports, you clearly state that the statistics suggest that there is a risk that the custody allowance for some families delays the establishment of mothers in the labour market and delays important learning in preschool for children. There, the Moderates have the same perspective as us. It is very clear that this reform is not a reform of freedom. This is a reform that cements structures that we can see elsewhere are very unhappy. The reason why not so many people use the custody allowance I think can be applied for both in the Moderates' own report and in the perspectives I highlighted. This is basically not a good reform that brings people closer to the labour market or gives children the best conditions. This is a Christian Democrat invention that you had to agree to. It's something I can respect, but it's probably time to move on and let go of the bad ideas.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-420	Mr President, I would like to In fact, I can be easily provoked by what the Member of Parliament, Fredrik Lundh Sammeli, says. He says that the custody allowance gives children less opportunities and a worse start in life. Wait here! Did I hear you right, Fredrik Lundh Sammeli? Did you say that you get a worse start in life because we have an additional opportunity for parents to spend time with their children? Isn't it a great start to life that children have time with their parents? Families are different. Therefore, families also choose different solutions. You're supposed to have respect for this. For all of you who are watching, I would like to say that this is not a compulsion. Firstly, municipalities have an autonomy in that they themselves choose whether they want to introduce this. Secondly, parents, in turn, have an option to choose whether they want a custody allowance or not. This also applies for a very limited time when the children are one to three years old. It is not a proposal that applies indefinitely. I still did not get an answer to my basic question. You are standing here from the Social Democrats, wrangling for the labour supply and the work line. If you now think that women's participation in the labour market and an increase in labour supply is so incredibly important, why do you raise taxes on jobs? Why are you making it difficult for people to enter the labour market? As I said earlier, IFAU has recently stated in a report that the abolition of the custody allowance has a very small marginal effect on labour supply.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-423	Mr President, I would like to Job tax deduction is not the solution to Sweden's challenges, although the former bourgeois government had it in answer to all questions. It is not the case that unemployment is getting lower thanks to a job tax deduction, that school results are getting better due to tax deductions or that the climate is getting better. It is very clear that we have many challenges that we need to solve with a completely different policy from the policy pursued over the past eight years. Tina Ghasemi has one thought: Do I mean that it is harmful when children are at home with their parents? No, definitely not. That is why I hope that we will have a greater and more even withdrawal of parental insurance. There is a reform that we state subsidies where we can see that a large proportion of those who choose to use it are foreign-born people with a weak link to the labour market. They have children who fall behind because they do not get part of, for example, the language development that a preschool still contributes to. It's harmful. This means that we have a reform that both gives cemented gender roles and helps children get off to a worse start in relation to others. We do not think that is a good reform to spend common money on. That is why we believe that today we should abolish it.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-426	Mr President, I would like to Today, the Swedish parliament will abolish perhaps the most clearly anti-gender reform introduced by the previous alliance government on the initiative of the Christian Democrats. The care allowance means that persons with children under the age of three can withdraw a maximum of SEK 3 000 who do not establish pension rights and cannot be combined with other social security benefits. It has been a clear female trap and a poverty trap. Over 90 percent of those who have taken custody allowance have been women. Foreign born and immigrant backgrounds are over-represented. Those with low education are over-represented. Those with lower pay are over-represented. Overall, we can see that the reform has meant that those who are already further away from the labour market remain further away from the labour market. We see that it cements gender roles that we as a country are committed to breaking down. Sweden has signed the UN Convention on Women in which we commit ourselves to this. The Swedish Parliament has adopted gender equality policy objectives. They mean that we should have an equal labour market where men and women receive equal pay and equal opportunities, but also that we should overcome the unequally distributed unpaid home and care work. Mr President, I would like to I am therefore pleased that today we are abolishing a reform that is so clearly countering these objectives. We have heard in the debate several other good arguments for abolishing the custody allowance. Integration is one of them. Newly arrived women are a group that is generally far removed from the labour market. We need efforts to get them into the labour market rather than paying tax money to keep them away. In addition, it is the children of these parents who may most need the language development opportunity of preschool. After all, the quality of preschools depends on how much money we have the opportunity to invest in it. The money that is being spent today on child care allowance comes from the municipal budgets and perhaps precisely from the preschool budget. In the report on which I would like to call for the approval of the committee, the Christian Democrats have formulated in their motions that they want economic equality between forms of childcare. I am honestly more interested in economic equality between people, between men and women and between people who are newly arrived in Sweden and people who have lived here for a long time or were born here. Of course, in the discussion the best interests of children are a central issue. Many feel that it is important for people to be able to prioritise more time for their children. I share that ambition. I am happy to discuss further how we can enable all parents to combine working life and more time for their children. Here I can imagine many reforms that can achieve this without at the same time counteracting some of the most important goals that the Swedish Parliament has endorsed on gender equality. This applies, for example, to possibilities for shorter working hours, how we work with parental insurance and other systems. These are systems that are already much more popular than the custody allowance. It should be remembered that very few people have chosen to take advantage of it. In the discussion we have heard different politicians call the same phenomenon rather radically different things. There has been talk of freedom of choice and that the same thing means dependence. When the Christian Democrats talk about women's freedom of choice to live on SEK 3 000 a month, the majority in this House think that we should combat women's dependence on the income of the other parent. The Christian Democrats are talking about influence. Poverty is probably a more accurate description of what it is really about. I would like to quote Annika Qarlsson from the Center Party who talked about power and freedom. That's exactly what it's all about. People, women and men who are able to earn their own income gain power and freedom in their lives. We are opposed to this with a custody allowance introduced by the Christian Democrats. I am very pleased to see that the People's Party and now also the Center Party are in favour of having a society in which we do not subsidise inequality with tax funds and contribute to people remaining outside the labour market and in poverty. At the same time, it is interesting to note that the Moderates are still holding on to the custody allowance. I thought this was some sort of concession to the Christian Democrats, but it seems that it is a policy that the Moderates genuinely stand for. I think it's interesting. The Moderates are for freedom not to work, but only for systems that encourage inequality. This is not because the Moderates do not understand that the system encourages inequality. We have heard Tina Ghasemi state this clearly and that inequality is a problem. Yet they want to maintain a system that leads to greater inequality. The Moderates accept this at the same time as they think that sick people should be forced to work or at least not be allowed to take part in health insurance. However, women are apparently to be kept in poverty with tax-subsidised subsidies. At least it passes my mind how the reasoning goes together for the Moderates. Mr President, I would like to I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report and for all reservations to be rejected. Today, we are abolishing a reform that cements inequality, and it is worth celebrating.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-440	Mr President, I would like to As happy as Annika Hirvonen Falk is, as sad as I am this day of grief in the Swedish Parliament. Surely, many of your party companions, who early pushed for the custody allowance, are also quite sad on a day like this. If you look at your party, you will find that there was a strong force for this freedom of choice there. But these are new times now. They talk about 2015 as if everything is now going to change and that all old values are not so important anymore. You're talking about women's freedom of choice to earn 3,000 kroner, and you're talking about poverty. I have to tell you, I can't get it together. You don't choose child care allowance because you go down into some kind of poverty trap. It's a choice you make, and that choice isn't about 3,000 kroner. It's about spending more time with your kids. That is what it is about, and that is the choice itself. It is a choice about empowerment – that I and we as parents decide how we want it. I think this poverty trap thing is very far away. We used to talk about different planets, but I think this seems far from reality. I have a question for you. I'm going to read some of the e-mail I read from earlier. There is a woman who writes: What's wrong with being at home and going to baby swimming with her child? You can go to baby arrhythmias, baby arrhythmias, open preschool, library and playground. Yes, what's wrong, Annika Hirvonen Falk, with taking care of her children for a slightly longer time than parental leave?
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-444	Mr President, I would like to I would like to stress that we are not abolishing the possibility of being at home with their children. What we are abolishing is a public tax subsidy that leads to inequality and is countering our objectives of equality and integration. That is what we are abolishing here today. The question that Roland Utbolt asked about whether it is good or bad that people are at home with their children really concerns a discussion that needs to be put in the broad context. Is it good or is it bad that parents don't have a job to go to and that children grow up in homes where they never see their mother go to work? Is that good or bad? It must be put in a structural context that I know, as such, that the Christian Democrats are opposed to. But the fact is that it is not so good for children to grow up in an unequal Sweden. This proposal – to abolish the municipal custody allowance – will contribute to a more equal Sweden. It will remove harmful subsidies that result in children not seeing their parents go to work to the same extent. These aspects seem to be of no importance to the Christian Democrats. The Green Party is a party that has long protected people's ability to rule their own time. But the Green Party must also face up to the truth: this proposal is not good. That is why we have for a long time been distancing ourselves from the Christian Democrats' custody allowance model.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-448	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Annika Hirvonen Falk! We differ very clearly, you and I, ideologically. It is good in a way in democracy that we are clear and that people know what we think and think. You are saying that it is a question of abolishing the possibility of receiving compensation for being at home with your children for a little extra time in addition to parental leave. That's what you're afraid of. That's what you're afraid of. I think it is a contempt for parents' empowerment and ability to make their own decisions. Above all, however, it is a contempt for the view of many parents that they want to give a little more time to their children in addition to parental leave. You say you can do it, but then you do it without any compensation. It's Green Party policy. This boils down to a difference in the view of choice. The state should get in at the kitchen table and be involved in deciding what parents should do. That is the line of the Left Government and, unfortunately, of the Center Party and the People's Party today. We Christian Democrats, together with the others here, believe that power and decisions should be granted to parents and their ability and right to make their own decisions on how to take care of their children for some extra time in addition to parental leave. What do you say to the woman who wonders what's wrong with being home a little extra? You might want to go to baby swimming, baby arrhythmias, open preschool, library and playground. What do you have against that parent?
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-452	Mr President, I would like to There is a lot to be said here in the debates of the Social Security Committee. I can only make a small comparison with how we usually work in the Committee on Justice. Perhaps the answer from me to such a letter would begin by saying that this woman should vote for the Christian Democrats. We, the majority in the Swedish parliament, do not think that the state should counteract the goals of gender equality and integration that the state itself has set itself – and especially not through tax subsidies. It is amazing that people want to take responsibility for their children and that they want to spend time with them. But let us create systems that make this possible without creating women's traps and poverty traps at the same time! I look forward to talks where we can move on from this proposal which today for the second time – and hopefully the last time, as previous speakers said – will be abolished in the Swedish Parliament. Let's move on!
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-455	Mr President, I would like to The care allowance, which is part of parental insurance, does not serve any purpose in today's society. It has played its part. Many years ago, when those who become parents today were barely born, I and, as I said, Thorbjörn Fälldin, the Center Women and the Center Party drove the custody allowance to exist. The reason for that was that it was then another time. At that time, most ladies were housewives, and they had no income of their own. A custody allowance would give them an income. We all know how important the right to control your own money is, but I'm not going to go into that anymore. As I said, childcare was not extended in the way it is now. Today, there are various forms of childcare to choose from, and both women and men are working. Unfortunately, Mr President, parental insurance and parental leave are not equal. We can truly regret that today. We are also aware of the disadvantages, for it is women who take most of the parental leave and most of the parental leave allowance. It affects wage development, career, pension levels and the whole family. For this reason, we in the Center Party want to abolish the custody allowance. We want reforms and proposals that give freedom of choice and carrots. We are in favour of more people working and having a longer working life. In order to contribute to increasing the equal take-out of parental insurance and the relationship with the child, we want to introduce a higher gender equality bonus that also applies to VAB days. We want to introduce a childcare allowance in order to increase family freedom of choice when it comes to pre-schooling. This is something that does not always work today, because not all municipalities have introduced that you can have your children in a municipality other than the municipality of residence. In fact, it is important to avoid going a long way to preschool or childcare. We also want to introduce additional forms of operation in childcare, and there are various educators. Of course, all of this facilitates parental choice when it comes to adapting to the child's specific needs. Then you can decide at home at the kitchen table. It's freedom of choice. We also want to introduce open parental and child days to enable additional adults close to the child to take parental leave. It is also part of a reform of freedom of choice. We also want to encourage women to be self-employed and want them to be able to adapt parental leave accordingly. As I said, Mr President, the Center Party is in favour of a local policy. This means that you can choose for yourself what is best for the child, for the parents and for the family. In this context, the custody allowance does not belong. For this reason, Mr President, I support the proposal for the abolition of the child custody allowance.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-462	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Zander, for your speech. It's interesting from a number of points of view. You mention freedom of choice a number of times and tell us how important it is to be able to sit at the kitchen table and make decisions. You're talking about local politics. In your party's program of ideas, it says that the party believes in every human being's right and ability to shape its own future and that power should be as close to people as possible. This is really close to Christian-Democracy politics and idea-based thinking. Now you're choosing the opportunity for parents to decide: I want to be home a little more with my child, because I see that the child needs it. Before our child goes to preschool, we want a little more time at home with it. How's that going with your ideological base?
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-465	Mr President, I would like to My ideological base stands firm. It's incredibly simple. If it is always the person who has the lowest income who stays home, as I have heard Roland Utbolt say on several occasions here, it affects the woman. That freedom of choice affects her for the rest of her life, because she gets a lower income, fewer and less career opportunities and a lower pension. Then there's no freedom of choice anymore. No, we in the Center Party believe that reforms are important which actually mean a more even withdrawal of parental insurance. Roland Utbolt is well aware that parents can already choose to be at home with their children for more than a year. How many women are there, because there are women in this context too, who take three days' parental leave a week but are at home five days anyway? Both parents are able to choose to spend more time at home with their children in the system we have today. Then you can choose to do so on the basis of the financial condition that parents have in common. The care allowance therefore serves no purpose today more than to the detriment of the context in which we want to enable freedom of choice in a much wider system and also to ensure that we safeguard the work line. A longer working life is what we work for.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-468	Mr President, I would like to Of course, what you say would be well founded if you did not have the people with you. According to studies, parents want to decide and decide on the custody allowance. The majority want to. 25% don't want it, they want it removed. You belong to the 25% who want to remove it. What I have said is that it is about women's wages and which of the two parents should be at home and take responsibility. As women earn almost 4 million less on average than men during a lifetime, women usually stay at home. That's how it is. In this way we can say that freedom of choice is limited, but it does not have much to do with the freedom of choice with the custody allowance, I think. The choice is not about, I think, going into a poverty trap, as I heard someone say here. The choice is that I want to give more time to my children, and during that time I have the opportunity to get a custody allowance, at least until, as it seems, 1 January next year. Almost half of the municipalities in Sweden have decided on the custody allowance, and where it has been decided, it is popular. There are many who contact us and certainly also others and say that it is terrible that the custody allowance should be removed. What is the problem for Solveig Zander with the custody allowance because it is a matter of choice?
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-473	Mr President, I would like to Many people want to retain the custody allowance," says Roland Utbolt. Why, then, are so few people making use of the custody allowance? If it is so very important and popular, why are so few people taking out the custody allowance? These questions have to be asked. If there was real choice, more people would choose the custody allowance. I am convinced that Roland Utbolt, like me, knows that it is important that we give incentives for both parents to be able to be with their children and that they have the opportunity to choose in a different way. That is why we want to create carrots together with the reforms we are implementing for freedom of choice. That's why we think the gender equality bonus is good, that it is possible to get more compensation if the one who goes out and works is the one who earns the least. These are important reforms. Children need both their parents. Why is it only the mother who should be at the children's house? Well, that was the case 40 years ago, when Thorbjörn Fälldin and I were standing on the barricades and thought it was important for the mother to be compensated. That's when you were a housewife. It was also then a question of becoming self-sufficient and self-sufficient, just as it is today. Today we have another world. In the world we live today, the custody allowance has no role to play.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-477	Mr President, I would like to We have heard many arguments for and against the custody allowance, and it is no secret that I will speak against the custody allowance. Nine out of ten people taking custody allowance are women. We have also heard that several times during the day. This is most common among low income earners, among persons with foreign background and in suburban municipalities. It's no wonder. If the margins are small, SEK 3 000 tax-free is a lot of money. But the money doesn't solve a problem, it locks in. We hear here how you want to increase the grant because there are so few that take it out. It is believed that it is too low and that an increase would increase the outlet. I'm convinced of that, too. But I wonder why these parties want to subsidise something that most people in Sweden are proud that we have worked away, that is, the housewife. The care allowance is not pensionable. In other words, the women who stay at home – it is almost only women – with child care allowance receive a lower pension. Since $1,000 is far too little to live on, you become completely dependent on your partner. In other words, it is an addiction that also comes up to retirement age. We know that the fear of failing to cope with the economy is a reason for staying in a relationship that does not work. The fact that women take out so many more parenting days and are at home longer and are therefore away from the labour market for a long time makes for a lower living wage. A woman with two children with three years of age can easily be away from the labour market for six years, but it can be even longer depending on how the parents split up parental insurance. As we heard from the Center Party, it is perfectly possible to pick out a few days a week. Add more years for each child. This may sound good and safe for the children. That is the argument that has been put forward in the debate, that is, protecting the child perspective – being at home with a parent for three years. But for many children, this is the beginning of alienation. I think about preschool but not primarily the social part, even if it is so important to both parents and children. Preschool also provides parents with an expanded network. No, I am thinking of those children who have a mother tongue other than Swedish. That's where preschool is especially important. Being a six - year - old on the first day of school after being home with his younger siblings is hardly the basis for a successful schooling. It is strange that it is considered that it is the systems that affect women that must remain in order to safeguard freedom of choice, while there are no problems whatsoever in restricting freedom of choice as long as it only affects women. Parental insurance is one example. The right to free abortion has been discussed. There's the discussion about the right to a cesarean section. The fact that freedom of choice would be threatened is not an argument that holds true. Freedom of choice still exists. Everyone is free to stay at home with their children forever. It's just not tax-funded. Sweden also has the world's most extensive parental insurance. It is always as entertaining to hear non-liberals define liberalism and what liberals should stand for. For it is always in line with what they think of the day itself. It has been said that there has been unexpected support from FP today, but those who have joined know that we already took a country meeting decision in 2013 on another quota month in parental insurance. It could hardly have come very unexpectedly. As far as the unexpected support for the custody allowance is concerned, there has obviously been a poor situation. We were clear in the alliance government, before the alliance government and after the alliance government that we do not want it. Instead of quoting 40-year-old politics, we are looking at reality today and the society we want to shape in the future. We Liberals don't like the subsidy line. The care allowance contains all the negative aspects of the grant, i.e. exclusion, lock-in and inequality.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-486	Mr President, I would like to I have followed the whole debate, and I am fascinated by the almost hallelujah-like atmosphere that politicians' power is further increased over Swedish parents and their freedom of choice is reduced. Socialism unfortunately takes a victory over the people in the matter. This is basically a matter of respect for people's own free choice. I was fascinated by Fredrik Lundh Sammeli. It seemed he didn't really know what the question was about. Several times Fredrik Lundh Sammeli talked about government funding and government costs, but this is entirely financed by the municipality. There is no government money at all in this. You don't even seem to know what you're legislating about. This is about the possibility for a municipality to offer choice to its inhabitants at its own expense. It's not a government contribution. Mr President, I would like to I'm not just a Member of Parliament, I'm also a father. I've been there for a long time, 22 years. For me, no work or assignment during my life will have been more important than my role as a parent. Even a parliamentary mission in the light of history will not exceed the mission to raise my own children. I have chosen to do so with my wife, and we have made those choices ourselves. Our daughter is 22 years old today. So she was born in 1993. Our family therefore had the opportunity to extend the time at home with her by means of the custody allowance, which was introduced by the bourgeois government in 1991-1994. Both my wife and I took out the custody allowance and were home from work. We were new homeowners, had just built houses and had large loans and not very high income. It gave us an opportunity to stay home a little longer with our children before our daughter and her little brother went to an excellent preschool run by a parent cooperative. At the time, I was politically interested, partly because of family policy. I was active at home in Mark's municipality in western Götaland, where opinion for increased choice for families with children was very strong, as Phia remembers here. Because we were in the same council back then. There was so much pressure in our municipality that the municipal council made a decision to ascribe to the government and apply to become a free municipality and introduce municipal custody allowance. In this decision of the municipal council, all the bourgeois parties, the Green Party and even the Chairman of the Left Party voted for it. After the 2006 elections, we introduced custody allowance in Mark's municipality with the support of the legislation introduced by the government at the time. There is very strong support for this, both in our municipality and with the Swedish people. There is no support from the Swedish people to abolish the custody allowance. Even among many who do not use the custody allowance themselves, there is strong support for others to have that possibility. Many people want to decide for themselves. Mr President, I would like to Every child is different. It may seem an unnecessary remark in the Social Security Committee and in this House. But I think it is important to remind you of this sometimes, not least when talking about the custody allowance. Not all children fit in our stressed society. Not all children are well off by spending 10, 11 hours a day in preschool as a one-year-old. For those children who need a calmer everyday life, the child care allowance is in any case a small opportunity for the parents to be at home with the children a little longer. If we abolish the custody allowance, we will reduce the opportunities for these children. Parents can't just be seen as a production resource. I pay tribute to the work line in every situation, but I think we should also remember that the most important work we do as parents is actually to raise a new generation of people. Then we must realise that all children are different, and then there must also be more than one way of arranging childcare for the first two or three important years of children's lives.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-497	Mr President, I would like to All children are different, says Jan Ericson. How, then, is it that children of people who are far from the labour market do not seem to fit in preschool as often as other children? And, Jan Ericson, how is it that when it comes to freedom of choice leading to increased inequality, the Moderates are for? But when it comes to being at home and getting well from a long-term illness, one should surely be forced to look for work with the Moderates' work line as a motive.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-498	Mr President, I would like to There has been a lot of discussion in the debate about how this affects people who are far from the labour market and also new arrivals to Sweden. I'd like to turn it around a little bit. This isn't really about the custody allowance. This is about what our compensation systems look like for people who come to Sweden. If we were to have a system in which new arrivals gradually qualify for our social security systems, then we would not have this problem. I think we should tackle that problem in a different way. I also think we should look a little bit at what it looks like in our world. All we have to do is go to Åland. Finland has a completely different approach to this issue than we have in Sweden. There's a home care allowance. I saw that in Åland this home care allowance was raised from the turn of the year. There, all parents who do not take advantage of municipal childcare receive EUR 500 per month. That's a lot of money. For non-employed workers, the aid is further increased. This means that home care allowance will be increased from the turn of the year. You choose a completely different path than we do in Sweden. There were several who said in the debate that this would affect school outcomes, that it is important for children to get into preschool early and so on. I would just like to remind you of the difference between Sweden and Finland in terms of PISA surveys and school results. Obviously, the Finnish home care allowance has not reduced the school results for children.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-503	Mr President, I would like to I did not get an answer to either my first or my second question. Instead, I got rather loose unscientific reasoning that the Finnish school system would be so much better because Finland does not have the same well-developed access to preschool as we have in Sweden. With the experience of my relatives from Finland in their luggage, I can say that I am not at all prepared to go that way and radically reduce the possibility of preschool education in Sweden to the low level that they have in Finland. In fact, preschool is the most successful form of school in Sweden. It is particularly important for children who come from home with a low educational background and for children who come from home with parents who do not have Swedish as their mother tongue. It is this particular group that makes greater use of the custody allowance. It is these very children who may best have the support of preschool in their luggage when they take the backpack with them to their first day of school. Mr President, I would like to I'll give Jan Ericson another chance. How come, if it is now so optional and all children are different and the taking of custody allowance is based on the needs of the individual child, that we see these structural differences? Children of parents with low education who are far from the labour market and who have a foreign background – they are the ones who are over-represented.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-506	Mr President, I would like to As I said in the previous line, I am convinced that it is a lot about these people who may not have entered the Swedish labour market. Then this is a supplement that you can get. You'd be at home with the kids, no matter what. This will at least compensate for it. I think that's pretty important. That was the big, important issue when we debated these issues in our municipality. An injustice was experienced – some were at home and received no compensation; others were given access to a preschool that cost a lot of money. That part should also be included in this discussion. I myself have a motion in this report that I am not calling for today, but I would like to remind you of it. I therefore propose that this system should be extended, that the allowance should be improved rather than abolished. Furthermore, if you get pension credits on it, it would be a real income that would eliminate some of the problems mentioned here. In addition, this is not a choice between preschool or child care allowance, but a supplement. For a short period of time, you choose to take out custody allowance. Then you often place your children in a preschool. I just see it as an advantage. I myself have been involved in running parent co-operative preschools. Staff often say that it is the smallest children who are the most laborious. This is where you have the slightest opportunity to provide educational content. That's a lot of care. When the children get a little bigger, they can take on much more of the educational activities. Because some parents are at home with their smallest children, preschools can be relieved of the most staff-intensive children so that they have more time for the educational activities of language learning and so on. There is somewhere a time when children fit best in preschool and can take part in the educational activities. So I see this as a complement. These things are connected; it's not either or. Today we live in a society where the vast majority of parents will use preschool but perhaps not directly for the smallest children. We shall protect that freedom of choice.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-513	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating state enterprises. For the Swedish people, these companies and their activities are of great importance. We take a position on the Government's letter 2014/ 15:140 regarding the 2015 statement of companies with state ownership, a motion brought about by the letter and the motion requests from the general exercise period. The letter is an important tool for us to follow up how the government assumes its ownership and how it wants to develop state ownership. I would like to support the proposal in the committee's report to add the letter from the government to the record. I would also like to ask for the motion to be rejected, both on the basis of the letter and during the general period of exercise. With regard to the management of SJ AB, there is a reservation regarding exercise 2015/ 16:57 from S, MP and V. I will not apply for that reservation, but please note the same. The state-owned companies are an asset for Sweden. They play an important role in the diversity of business and contribute to employment across the country. For example, they are today Sweden's largest employer. The welfare of state enterprises is of great importance to those who work in the companies, to those who do business with them and also to each individual citizen. In the state-owned corporate portfolio there are 49 wholly owned companies, two of which are listed. The companies represent great values. In May 2015, they were valued at approximately SEK 460 billion. Mr President, I would like to Some people wonder why the state should own companies. Ownership in itself, of course, is not an end in itself, but rather a matter of looking at the values of society and the strategic importance that companies and their activities represent to the Swedish people. In the letter, the Government states that the overall objective is for the companies to create value for society and, where appropriate, to ensure that the specifically decided social tasks, which several companies have, are performed well. The Government also stresses that it is constantly reviewing the portfolio of companies to examine the reasons for continued state ownership but also as part of considering the various assignments and directions of the companies. The sale of state property must be carried out in a commercial manner, according to the Budget Act. State-owned companies shall operate under conditions of efficiency, return on capital represented by the company and structural adjustment. In some cases, the social mission is clearly stated in the Ownership Directives. In other contexts, the role of society as such does not exist as a directive, but anyone who acts and acts in the public service still has a particular responsibility to bear. I think everyone here can sign that. Two issues have been particularly focused on recent times – the need for state venture capital and SJ's profit distributions. As far as venture capital is concerned, the Swedish National Audit Office recently criticised how it has worked in recent years. Ambitions have certainly not been missed, but the accuracy could have been better. Above all, more support is needed in the early stages. So-called fund-in-fund solutions linked to railway guarantees have been mentioned. It has taken this on board and is now working on developing tools to promote innovative ideas and initiatives, all to provide opportunities for them to develop to create growth, jobs and confidence in the future throughout the country. As far as SJ's profit return is concerned, it is a consequence of the ownership directives that are still in force and that were developed during the previous government's time. Now the question arises: Should SJ, which operates in a competitive everyday life, also have an explicit social mission? Ownership directives are currently under preparation, hence our notable reservation on the matter. It should also be borne in mind that the profits that SJ and other state-owned companies generate to the public purse benefit the Swedish people through the investments made in welfare, security and, not least, infrastructure. Mr President, I would like to For state ownership, it is essential that companies operate in such a way that long-term value creation can be achieved. The companies should be given the opportunity to develop, and it is obvious that the active management takes place in a professional manner. They should be the forerunner in sustainable entrepreneurship through a long-term and responsible stance on human rights, working conditions, the environment, anti-corruption, gender equality and diversity. Management and management have to take a clear responsibility for ensuring that these important starting points are followed up in a good way. In terms of gender balance on boards and among managing directors, the state as owner has gone significantly beyond the rest of the economy. The proportion of women chairmen can serve as an example of this. In 2015, they amount to 46 per cent. The corresponding share of stock exchange companies is about 5 per cent. Dialogue is important between the companies and the state as owner. At the regular shareholder meetings, when representatives of companies and government meet, the companies' performance is monitored in relation to established economic goals, sustainability goals and, where appropriate, mission objectives. The objectives set must be ambitious and realistic. Finally, Mr President, one of the most important instruments for the governance of state-owned companies is the appointment of competent and well-functioning boards. The Boards shall be composed so that they can carry out the assignment on the basis of business competence, integrity, efficiency and industry knowledge. High demands and constant development work should be in focus.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-528	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by saying that I support all the reservations that the Moderates and the other alliance parties have in this letter, but for time to come, I am in favour of the committee's proposal under paragraph 7. I also support the reservation made by the alliance parties in paragraph 5. We are debating, and will decide, the annual letter on companies and state ownership. For us Moderates, the basic idea is that the role of the state should normally be to set out the framework and rules that apply to business and businesses, not to own and operate businesses. Now that we have a portfolio of companies, and will have it for the foreseeable future, it is important that the state imposes requirements on clear principles. State-owned companies should be operated in a long-term and responsible manner, and when they operate in a competitive market, market requirements obviously apply in order to ensure effective competition. It is not simply in a changing world. We know that it can be difficult to operate and maintain goals that the Swedish state companies will live up to. We also know that international prices and societal changes affect. Not least, we can follow LKAB and its mining industry in the north. There you now move parts of the community, that is Kiruna. In Germany we have been able to follow the country's conversion of energy. It still affects Swedish Vattenfall, a company that we will return to in a later debate. Another of these companies is Telia Sonera, where we have only made visits today. Mr President, I would like to I have mentioned a number of companies in the portfolio of companies that today contain and represent a significant corporate ownership in Sweden. As we heard earlier, the government portfolio has 49 wholly owned state-owned companies. 41 of these are wholly owned, eight are partly owned. Two companies are listed. These are large values, and together the companies belong to Sweden's largest employer. In total, there are about 163 000 employees. The companies are ultimately owned, not to forget, by the Swedish people. The state thus has a great responsibility to be an active and professional owner. The overall goal is for the companies to create value and for those companies that have a special responsibility for decided social tasks to perform them well. It is important to emphasise this. From 2012, under the alliance government, new steps have been taken to strengthen sustainability as an important concern. The Alliance government then raised the issue in corporate governance by commissioning the Boards to develop strategic sustainability goals, formulated as follows: They should be few and comprehensive, relevant to the companies' business operations and sustainability challenges, long-term and challenging, follow-up not only quantitatively, transparent and easy to communicate, as well as determined through board decisions. By clarifying their commitment to key sustainability issues, the companies show that they are modern organisations. The sustainability work aims to ensure decent business and to maintain or increase the value of Swedish companies, a value that currently amounts to SEK 260 billion. Using international comparisons with GRI, the Global Reporting Initiative, as a starting point, allows for comparisons over time and between companies in industries and sectors both nationally and internationally. State-owned companies shall comply with the international guidelines on environmental, human rights, working conditions, anti-corruption and business ethics, the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, the UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. This will obviously be particularly important for companies in particularly risky industries or with operations in countries that lack compliance with international guidelines. Another goal has been to influence attitudes and old familiar cultures by broadening skills. As a result, we now see that 49% of the elected board members are women, according to the SIS Ownership Service. You can compare with what it was like around 2006, when it was 23% women. Women are also 46 per cent of the presidents of wholly owned companies. In the listed companies, mentioned earlier, the figure is 5%. It is a strategic issue that the selection of members is made on the basis of a wide range of backgrounds and experiences. The composition of each Board shall be balanced in terms of background, area of competence, experience and gender. The composition must also take into account diversity considerations, such as ethnic and cultural background, but at the end of the day it is A and O that a company has a well-composed board of directors in order for the mission to be carried out well. An important part of corporate governance when it comes to companies with state ownership is that the remuneration of senior executives is reasonable and well balanced, they have entered. The remuneration shall not be wage leader in relation to other comparable companies but shall be characterised by moderation. The results for the period 2009 – 2014 have fallen out so that the total remuneration to CEOs in companies with state ownership has on average increased by 3.7 per cent per year, which is lower than the market increase of 4.6 per cent. The accounts of state-owned companies over the years also include a report for each company. I would like to refer here in my speech to two of these companies specifically, as they stand out in the current year for large dividends that the government has chosen to make from these state-owned companies. One is Akademiska Hus, which develops universities and colleges and has been given a broader mandate to also be able to build and manage student housing. At the same time as this broader mission to build student housing, the waves of debate have been high among representatives, who are currently in the government, that far too little has been done by the previous government. The housing debate and housing shortage are on the agenda, and the government continues to talk about this at the same time as in 2015 a dividend of SEK 1.45 billion was paid, as the Annual General Meeting decided during the spring, and then at an extraordinary general meeting on 19 October decided on an after-sales dividend of SEK 6.5 billion. This does not rhyme well with broadening the mission to build. That is what we believe in the alliance parties. This is almost seen as a budget regulator for the current government. Extremely strange is also that the government not only chooses to take a lot of money from Akademiska Hus but also does the equivalent of the priority when it comes to Statens J smnvägs, SJ, to take an example from the infrastructure debate. The Social Democrats have been preaching under the alliance government for eight years about how much needs to be done about the infrastructure and that new trains must be bought in. Instead, the government now chooses to distribute 229 million from the state-owned company SJ AB, in the same way as for Akademiska Hus, at the Annual General Meeting in April, in order to hold an extraordinary general meeting in September where it is distributed 1.7 billion in profit from a company responsible for vital parts of the nation's infrastructure. Is this the government's new policy? How will this dividend affect SJ in the future? Will SJ be able to invest in the high-speed trains needed to operate the routes? And how will Akademiska Hus cope with its mission – should you have the expanded mission, or is it an air castle that the government is now building to be able to use the companies as budget regulators? Maybe I can find out now.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-544	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 4 in the report. We in the Swedish Democrats are, of course, behind all our reservations in the report, but for the benefit of time we are only calling for its approval. As mentioned above, the state has a portfolio of nearly 49 companies. They represent significant values – almost SEK 500 billion. These companies are also one of Sweden's largest employers. Many important Swedish social functions are currently carried out in company form with the state as a whole or partner, where the companies generally operate in a competitive market. The overall objective of the operations of the state-owned companies is for the Swedish Democrats to ensure that the interests of the citizens are met. The state shall manage our joint properties with great values in the best way and be able to provide employees with good working environments and development opportunities. The state should be an example of responsibility for both the environment and health. The state must also remain the national security regarding important social functions but also a good manager of our assets, such as our natural resources. However, state ownership should have a clear social benefit, have a positive impact on social development in the sector in which the company operates and have clear objectives and directives from the owners. Government engagement in key and important sectors of Sweden is considered to strengthen Sweden as a nation, and in many cases it is absolutely necessary to maintain and develop a competitive business and important social functions throughout the country. Basic functions must be ensured throughout the country, whether for communications or other services. Of course, private companies are one of the cornerstones of the Swedish economy and welfare, but competing with state companies that have overall responsibility is something we need to highlight more. Contracts should not be able to take raisins out of the cake, without taking into account the other national public interest, which is not as profitable for private companies. Nor are sales of state property for the Swedish Democrats any kind of ideological self-interest, but under certain circumstances state ownership should be reduced where it cannot be justified that state ownership is of benefit to citizens in the specific case. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish defence industry affects nearly 30 000 jobs in this country, and nearly one third of these are for engineers. Indirectly, the defence industry employs nearly 100 000 people in our country, even though Sweden has strict legislation and good control over the export of defence equipment. This is the case in most cases, although there may of course be an infringement even there. They should, of course, be prosecuted in cases where they arise. Sweden's strong armaments industry is a great advantage for our own armaments supply, not least now that we must forcefully regain our long-deprived defence capabilities. When investments are made in Swedish-produced equipment projects, the net cost can be low, and profits can even be achieved in the national economy due to exports but also through the fact that technology development often comes to civilian use and production. In the case of exports of defence equipment, a functioning export credit system is of great importance. This is the case not least for smaller companies. Therefore, we believe that the state-owned Swedish Export Credit should be given the opportunity to act even more aggressively to promote Swedish defence equipment exports. Mr President, I would like to In this report, the committee criticises how the government has acted with regard to the withdrawal of profits from SJ. It is a criticism that the Swedish Democrats share. Faced with the challenges facing the company, with a great need for investment to meet demands for punctuality and reliability in order to maintain its competitiveness with other players, we believe that the behaviour with extra dividends is directly irresponsible. An imminent risk that we in the Swedish Democrats see in the government's actions is that SJ's travellers are affected when they are allowed to co-finance government investments to a greater extent through profit withdrawals. A larger part of the errors for SJ's passengers shift from infrastructure to more wagon-specific, which in such cases only affects SJ's passengers. In order to provide SJ with better conditions to maintain competitiveness, we consider that the economic objectives of SJ should be revised in order to reduce the yield requirement. This would give the company more scope to make the necessary efforts to overcome the problems mentioned earlier. However, there is currently no support in the Riksdag to revise the yield requirements for SJ. However, in order to achieve some kind of change in the direction that we want to look towards giving SJ strengthened conditions, we support the proposal that the government within the decided economic targets should reassess its priorities regarding SJ AB. Finally, I would also like to point out that we will return to Vattenfall. There will be more detailed debate later at the Parliamentary Session when a report on Vattenfall is discussed.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-557	Mr President, I would like to To own something is to have and take responsibility. In this way, there is no difference between private ownership and state ownership. The difference when society owns something is that it is ultimately Sweden's citizens who are the owners. Those of us who are Members of Parliament then have a responsibility to review and represent the citizens. The state-owned company portfolio contains 49 wholly owned and partly owned companies. Two are listed. The companies represent large values, and together the state is one of Sweden's largest employers. In the Annual Report, the Government describes the state's ownership policy and how the administration and companies have developed during the year. In the letter, the Government states, among other things, that the overall objective is for the companies to create value and, where appropriate, to ensure that the specifically decided social mandates are performed well. In order to achieve this, it is stated that it is important, among other things, to give companies the conditions and opportunities to develop and continue to compete in their markets. It is important that the state is active and acts as a professional owner with a focus on long-term value creation. The sustainability work of state-owned companies is one of the top priorities. The Government's governance document sets out the framework for corporate governance and clarifies the relationship between owners, board members and management. Mr President, I would like to State-owned companies, as well as public limited liability companies owned privately, are subject to the rules of the Companies Act. This means that a state-owned company is also an independent legal entity, where the highest decision-making body is the general meeting. The shareholders exercise their right to decide in the company's affairs. The companies should be a forerunner in sustainability issues – for example, gender equality, business ethics, the environment and social responsibility. Some state-owned companies have a specifically decided community mission. It is important that these are clearly presented and govern the companies' operations. In its role as a major shareholder, the State has a comprehensive responsibility, not only for the individual companies but also for the companies' contribution to social development as a whole. Companies with state ownership shall integrate sustainability issues into the business strategy and day-to-day operations. The companies' activities shall be transparent and exemplary. The companies should be the forerunner in sustainable entrepreneurship. It is based on the Brundtland Commission's original 1987 definition of sustainable development: Sustainable development is a development that meets today's needs without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their needs. Sustainable entrepreneurship through a long-term and responsible stance on human rights, working conditions, the environment, business ethics and diversity, which will permeate all state-owned companies, is Samhall, for example. Samhall is Europe's most sustainable company. In May, the winners of the 2015 European Business Awards were selected. During a ceremony in London, Samhall's CEO Monica Lingegård received the award for Europe's top business in the category environmental & c orporate s ustainability. A total of 24 000 companies from 33 countries participated in the competition. Another company that is important for the development of society is SJ. SJ is as a major train operator of central importance for passenger transport in Sweden and in the work to reduce climate impact in the transport sector. The Parliament made an announcement last parliamentary term that SJ will be given a community assignment that more clearly points out SJ's important role. An important work to improve transport in Sweden is currently underway to prepare for high-speed trains between Stockholm and Gothenburg and Stockholm and Malmö to greatly reduce travel times. Here there is a fundamental idea that the state's own company should play a strategic role. This work and Parliament's earlier stated demands for a clearer community assignment to SJ are now being prepared in the Government Office. Finally, I would like to highlight the work of state-owned companies on gender equality. It is important that state-owned companies also drive the development towards a balanced gender balance in company management positions. It is therefore positive that the proportion of female CEOs in state-owned companies was 32 per cent at the end of 2014, compared with 5 per cent in listed companies. I note with pride that the government, through its governance, will continue to promote a balanced gender balance in the management of the state-owned companies.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-567	Mr President, I would like to We can now note that the saving measures of nearly 1 billion announced last year for SJ have resulted in, among other things, notice of 400 employees in SJ, the decommissioning of several travel shops and the closure of service centres in rural areas. The company is subject to stiffer competition from commercial operators on the most profitable routes, and competition continues to be fierce on regional routes. The Green Party has previously made proposals to abolish the distribution requirement for SJ. Instead, the Green Party now defends the profit withdrawals of nearly SEK 2 billion that have been made from the company this year. Previously, the party colleague of Member Elisabet Knutsson, the spokesperson Åsa Romson, has argued that profit demands on SJ force out savings packages and that profit has previously gone to the alliance government treasury instead of strengthening train traffic. Another party colleague of Member Elisabet Knutsson, spokesperson Gustav Fridolin, has previously said that profit withdrawals are a kick in the stomach of commuters and that they have milked SJ on money to lower taxes. It is not the honourable Member who has said this. She doesn't have to be held accountable for exactly that. But I think it will be remarkable given the high tone that has been on the part of the Green Party. I would like to ask myself a question with the reversal that has taken place with the Green Party in relation to winnings. If one used to label the winnings as a kick in the stomach of travellers, I wonder how one denotes the winnings when they are twentyfold. I would also like to ask the honourable Member whether she believes that a profit withdrawal of almost SEK 2 billion will make it easier for SJ to employ, improve punctuality, increase quality and have a more clear traveler focus.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-571	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. It's always terrible when people get laid off. Now I do not think it is precisely because of this profit draw. After all, this profit draw is based on the decision taken in 2014 when the opportunities for profit withdrawals in the state-owned company were changed. Under hand, new guidelines will now be presented, and the government is working on how to do the task in a different way.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-573	Mr President, I would like to My idea is that the Green Party has had a very high tone and, for example, compared it to a kick in the stomach. Now the pay-out level for this year is 20 times higher, and it is being defended instead. I think that somewhere you owe the voters answers to how you view this and if it should be okay with profit distribution at that level in that case. Then we have the question that the Riksdag has decided on before: If the company is going to have a clearer community assignment in the future, one can consider whether a profit withdrawal of SEK 2 billion will make it easier for SJ to employ, develop, improve punctuality and increase quality in order to get a more clear traveler focus. The Swedish democrats are not of the opinion that it is something that helps the company on that particular journey, but rather the other way round, just as fellow party members to Mr Knutsson have said.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-576	Mr President, I would like to There is a very unanimous view that it is important that SJ will have a larger social mission than we have today. The issue is under preparation, and we will get back to you.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-577	Mr President, I would like to My questions to Elisabet Knutsson are about the same. In her speech, Elisabet Knutsson printed a lot on sustainability development and long-term sustainability, I thought when I listened. If I start with Akademiska Hus, I think that now there is a broader mission to build. We have a housing debate and housing discussions about lack of housing and about students need housing. You're supposed to build student housing. When there is such a shortage of such housing, I do not understand why this withdrawal is being made. You could build even more and at the same time borrow if you want to get down to solidity, if that's what it's all about, to achieve the goals you want. That was the first part. Then I would also like to hear a little more of Elisabet Knutsson's reasoning about the state company SJ and the major infrastructure debate that has been. The tone there has been very high, as has also been said here before, that you should build more and invest in the train in order for more people to travel. What's the answer to that? 2 billion is money that could be well spent on investment.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-582	Mr President, I would like to If you want to be constructive about Akademiska Hus, I think you might have to review the ownership directives and see how dividends can be made. As far as SJ is concerned, we are not discussing SJ and travel specifically today, but it will be taken in the Transport Committee. I am by no means an expert on SJ, so I therefore think that this issue can be referred to the Transport Committee.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-584	Mr President, I would like to Ownership directives can be changed by the government at any time. The government has chosen to do as they now do, i.e. you collect this money from Akademiska Hus and also from SJ. Elisabet Knutsson mentioned 2014. Then you made a change of ownership that you have to follow. But where does it say to pick out SEK 2 billion from SJ? There's no such thing. 73 million, 157 million, 12 million and 90 million-- that's the money the Alliance government spent all its years. In a year, you're now spending 2 billion you're taking out. How can you think of it as something other than a budget regulator? You get worried, and it's not just us who are worried, it's also the company. They're supposed to make big investments forward.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-587	Mr President, I would like to The whole question is dealt with as I said in the Government Office, and we will come back with a detailed answer to the withdrawal that has been made and how we deal with it.
i-GKFttf9guhKBnCSXuxggHn	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the Alliance's reservation on the management of state enterprises, paragraph 5, reservation 3 and the majority text on the management of SJ AB, paragraph 7 and also the Center Party's reservation to maintain State ownership of Inlandsinnovation AB, paragraph 11, reservation 8. As many have been involved in the past, the Swedish state is one of the largest shareholders in Sweden and currently owns, in whole or in part, 49 companies. Together, these have approximately 163,000 employees and represent enormous values, together about SEK 460 billion. The majority of state-owned companies operate in competitive markets in a wide variety of areas. Both the Center Party and the other alliance parties consider that the government's task is normally to set out the framework and rules for business and business, not to own and operate business. Indeed, there is a built-in problem with state ownership in essence, and that is that the state is both player and judge at the same time. It has two roles and sits on two chairs at the same time – both as a legislator and as a company owner. However, since the state is such a large shareholder and will continue to be so for a long time, it is important that the companies are run in a long-term, professional, value-creating and sustainable manner. Several of the companies also have important social assignments where the focus is not only economics but also other benefits for society. However, it is important to point out that when state companies operate in a competitive market, they must also operate on market terms to ensure effective competition. Mr President, I would like to There are also, as we all know, high expectations of how our state-owned companies should behave. In all respects, they shall lead by example, whether it is remuneration to senior executives, gender equality work, environmental commitment or social responsibility. As a center party and alliance representative, I am very pleased that the Alliance's work to increase the proportion of women in corporate leadership has produced good results – a work that I hope the current government also manages well. As others have done, as many as 49 per cent of the board members of state-owned companies are women. It can be noted that the corresponding share in listed companies is 29 percent. When you come to the chairmanships of the state boards, i.e. in the wholly owned companies, women have also increased here, from 23% in 2006 to 46% in 2015. It may be worth noting here too that the corresponding figure for stock exchange companies is only 5 per cent in 2015. There's a lot to do there. Mr President, I would like to I am very worried when I see how the government handles the management of SJ and Akademiska Hus. The company Statens Järnvägar has great challenges, as a lot of investments must be made to cope with the punctuality and reliability of trains. Nevertheless, the government chooses to make large dividends. Last spring, SEK 229 million was withdrawn from SJ, and this autumn an additional SEK 1.7 billion was taken out. It is almost SEK 2 billion in total, and there is hardly any reinvestment. This really does harm the fundamental principle that the state should be a responsible owner and that the management of the companies should be long-term value creation. At the same time as the government is thinking capital from SJ, SJ announces that they should pull in on, for example, the night trains between Åre and Stockholm. It is certainly backwards, but in the government's desperate quest for money to finance all the electoral promises, however, money is squeezed out of every corner you can access. The same applies to the government's management of Akademiska Hus AB, a state-owned company that owns, develops and manages properties at the country's universities and colleges. In the next six months, the government will pick out SEK 6 1⁄2 billion, and at the same time the country's students are in great need of more student housing. Unfortunately, even with this large distribution of profits, the idea is to find additional money for all unfunded election promises. Mr President, I would like to Northern Sweden, Värmland and Dalarna contribute their basic industries to a large part of Sweden's economy. In Norrland, for example, thousands of people are working to produce iron ore for bridges, railway tracks and buildings all over the world. Most people understand that a growing mining industry has the opportunity to turn decommissioning into development. It affects local communities through new businesses and more jobs. Did you know that only Norrbotten accounts for 90% of the iron ore produced in the EU? The forestry industry is another of the Swedish basic industries that exist in the mentioned counties. What many may not know is that the forest industry in our country is the world's second largest exporter of forest products such as pulp, paper and sawn timber. Hydropower, in turn, accounts for barely half of the production of electricity in Sweden, and the largest Swedish hydropower plants are located in upper Norrland. In addition, last year tourism had sales of SEK 268.5 billion and contributed to a large number of new jobs, not least in northern Sweden, Värmland and Dalarna. If there is not enough risk capital available in these counties, it will affect entrepreneurship, not least in the basic industries. This in turn affects exports and the Swedish economy. That is why I am concerned about the state venture capital investigation that proposes the disappearance of the state venture capital company Inlandsinnovation. The company Inlandsinnovation has more than 2,000 million in the portfolio and came about four years ago to assist N orrlandslänen, Dalarna and Värmland with venture capital in particularly expansive stages where larger economic muscles are needed. The areas I am talking about belong to the most vulnerable parts of the country in terms of venture capital. A couple of weeks ago, I took part in an interpellation debate with Minister for Enterprise Mikael Damberg. When I asked about Inlandsinnovation and how the government thinks about the investigation, which proposes that Inlandsinnovation disappear, Mikael Damberg replied that he buys the proposal to stop Inland innovation. The money from Fouriertransform, you know, where venture capital is directed towards the automotive industry, and Inlandsinnovation is thus to be used to finance a new state venture capital company – Fondinvest AB. The new company will work with seed capital, which in itself is good. I also think it is good to look at how to use state venture capital. But what we in the Center Party are opposed to is the direct take-up of money from these areas, which have such challenges and such a lack of venture capital, to spread it across the rest of the country. In addition, the study does not take into account any geographical aspect whatsoever, as we know at the moment that the majority of all risk capital goes to the big cities. 50% end up in Stockholm. That says Growth Analysis, which is the government's own authority. This really is not good enough. Now it must be enough with the centralization age that prevails in Sweden. I think you know what I'm talking about. That's enough! I support the Center Party's motion to retain Inlandsinnovation AB.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-604	Mr President, I would like to Although Helena Lindahl has a soft and pleasant tone, some ointments that I can almost describe as bouncing back to Helena Lindahl and the previous government. It was during that time that the owner directives for SJ we now have to work with were written, and it was during that time the criticism was directed against that the state venture capital did not reach the accuracy and was as effective as one would have wanted. For example, the Swedish National Audit Office expressed strong criticism. This is what the government has now taken on board. I also noted the interpellation debate Lindahl had and where the Minister for Enterprise and Innovation replied that a major criticism has been that state venture capital has gone too late. They have not worked early where there is no private capital, and they have not really contributed to what they intended to contribute to. For this reason, I wonder why Helena Lindahl persists in living with the solutions that have been rejected from various quarters, rather than thinking new to create growth and development throughout the country.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-606	Mr President, I would like to I can say this: When Inlandsinnovation came to celebrate hardly the venture capitalists in Stockholm, you should know. Rather, it was the opposite. However, I was very pleased that these areas in Sweden received venture capital. I'm not saying that the banks are not doing their job-- the other way around. But this was necessary capital, and we can see that. 600 – 700 million out of this total of 2 billion are already rolling, and they are doing a lot of good. Looking over state venture capital is, I think, healthy and good, but as I said, what we object to is that you take almost 2 000 million from the most vulnerable parts of Sweden and smear them across the rest of the country, Per-Per-Arne Håkansson. You do this when we know that the largest part of risk capital in Sweden goes to the three largest cities. 50% goes to Stockholm. How can you contribute to further centralisation of Sweden? That's my question back.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-609	Mr President, I would like to We do not participate in the decommissioning of parts of Sweden that Helena Lindahl fears. Rather, it is exactly the opposite. This is the purpose of the commission that the investigation should work with these questions has received. We have seen how the development was during the years Helena Lindahl's party was in the government – unemployment increased, and the growth did not reach the parts of Sweden we need for the whole country to live. We can also see the criticism of SJ and the mission Helena Lindahl highlights. There have been criticisms that this has not been done effectively enough over the last period. Now improvements are underway, and I do not understand why Helena Lindahl persists in her criticism.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-611	Mr President, I would like to It was during the time of the Center Party in the government, i.e. during the time of the alliance government, that Inland innovation was created. Never before have these parts of the country benefited from 2 000 million in venture capital. We'll be clear about that. There was also a reason for its introduction. You want to take that away today. Instead, you want to sneak it out across the rest of the country and focus on the cities. That is exactly how it is, and it is a reversed Robin Hood policy. No one should try to imagine us in the affected areas that this would be something great for northern Sweden, Värmland and Dalarna. You take thousands of millions from us, and what Mikael Damberg says is that we will get a few back. It's kind of like Santa Claus. You may remember when Santa came when you were little. You got a big hard package. They tore it up, and in the iver they found a couple of knitting socks, which also itch. I would like to draw that parallel. That is about what we are getting back, and that is not acceptable.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-614	Mr President, I would like to Committee members! The report of the Industry Committee on letter 2014/ 15:140 refers to the 2015 report on state-owned companies. I have to say that it is a bit of pride to read in the letter what we own for companies together and about the governance of these. In the ownership policy, the Government presents its administrative mandate and its position on important issues of principle regarding corporate governance and corporate governance. Association law governs the companies, which some have discussed, in exactly the same way as privately owned companies, with the Companies Act as the overall framework and the Annual General Meeting as the company's highest decision-making body. The requirement for transparency in the companies with state ownership aims to maintain confidence in the companies in the public but also in the business community. Those who listen will notice that I do not mention Vattenfall. I would like to point out that it is because it will be debated afterwards, so that no one thinks that I as a left-wing party would have forgotten it. The Left Party believes that the state should be an active owner of our companies. But with the rules that exist today, we can often act as an owner who sees the long-term benefits of being the owner of companies where social work is not the governing body of the business. I remember in the early 80's when iron ore prices were low and our dear LKAB went at a loss and the owner had to provide ownership support. But as everyone knows, the era of LKAB did not end there, but LKAB could eventually rise with the help of the world market prices for iron ore but also because the state was an owner who looked at long-term ownership. Here I just can't help but make some comparisons. I wonder what grade history will give this government if you do not go in and do everything to try to save continued mining in my home municipality. You don't have to be an Einstein to realize the differences in conditions, because when the company went bankrupt it had about 13 billion that would be met with either interest or returns, and now it's five six dudes that have bought up almost everything for 50 million. So some difference should be seen in the conditions for running the mine, even if iron ore prices in tea would reach the heights prevailing at the start of the project. Historically, the state has entered as owner of companies in order to bridge difficult times or strategically insure something important, perhaps even jobs a few times. Mr President, I would like to In June 2007, the value of state-owned enterprises was EUR 770 billion. In 2014, the value of the state-owned companies, some of which have been involved, is estimated at 460 billion. I am not saying that the difference would be something that has been combed in, it is the corporate value. State ownership has continuously declined over the past three decades. The development has not been straight and unambiguous. Some companies have been sold at the same time as acquisitions have been made. But the direction has been clear, and both Social Democratic and bourgeois governments have sold state enterprises. The former government focused on continuing sales and reducing state ownership of companies. The objectives have varied, as have the size of the company and the focus of its activities. The extent of State ownership and, in turn, the sales have been large. The reasons for state ownership have shifted over time, as well as the reasons for selling. The methods of sales have been different, and it does not come from the fact that in many cases the state has made money. The value of companies' shares has often risen rapidly after privatisations. But to the extent that certain sales have taken place in a less successful way, such as the choice of time to sell Telia, there is much to learn from the mistakes. The Nordbanken, which the state once owned entirely, has been gradually privatised. In 1995 the central government owned just over 65 per cent of the bank in October. After mergers had been completed and other owners had been created, the state was in the early 2000s the owner of just under 20 per cent of Nordea, as the bank was then called. The last shares sold the previous government in three stages to a final sum of about 60 billion. Only as information, Nordea made SEK 40 billion in profit last year, and everyone knows how well the banks have gone in recent years. It is clear that I am not an economist or specialist in which companies the state should own and invest in, but some conclusions can even be drawn when the companies that the state has owned in part or fully distributed 328 billion over the last 15 years. Some people, for ideological reasons, want the state not to own companies at all. And I can reach so far and admit that yes, there are those who develop many kinds of companies in a far better way than the state would ever have done. But the fact that there are companies that do not provide returns or services to citizens in the same way throughout the country is known. To then start selling out parts of such businesses is really like pissing in your pants. It warms for a short while, but then the effects begin to feel and feel. There are definitely companies and companies that are well suited to be owned jointly by all of us. Natural resource companies of various kinds are perfectly suited to be owned and operated by the state. And what would have been negative about owning Nordea I still do not understand. Then there are liberalisations that have not been of benefit to the majority of the citizens. There are lots of things I could read out. One of the companies that manages our common natural resources in the form of forests is Sveaskog. I can see that the company has really been magic with resources, because timber prices have been falling all the time, but the company is only delivering more to the owners. Then I come to the question: How has one managed to do the trick if one does not remove more? I very much hope that my former employer, the one from whom I am on leave, does not harvest forests that are in their best dimensional growth and of high quality. SJ AB is a company that really should be owned by us jointly. But here a community mission would be needed so that rail freight and public transport would also begin to function according to plan. Here, the alliance parties have a joint follow-up motion which they will hear with the help of the Swedish Democrats in the committee, and that is not a kiosk roller in itself. But to come and claim that SJ AB would have had glory days during the previous government is really to be derailed, I think. I and the Left Party share the concern that there is too little investment in personnel and vehicles. But we see the social function as a little bigger than just an isolated issue. Therefore, we stand behind the reservation together with S and MP under decision point 7, Management of SJ AB. To conclude, Mr President, we are also, of course, in favour of our reservation under paragraph 3, which deals with state enterprises and investment protection. In our opinion, it is natural for Parliament to decide whether state companies should be able to sue other states, because it is also about relations with other countries.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-632	Mr President, I would like to Since Birger Lahti came up with a question of principle, I thought we could continue to discuss it in a debate. We think differently about state companies and what purpose they should serve. I would like to ask Birger Lahti whether SAS and Orio, for example, are companies to be owned by the State. Is it a core business for a state to own companies such as Orio, which is involved in spare parts for cars when we have had Saab production in the country? And how do you look at SAS? Does the Left Party want us to build on more companies and expand? Or are you satisfied with the amount of labels that exist? How do you view this? Should the government deal with spare parts for cars as Orio has done?
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-635	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Ann-Charlotte for the question. In my speech I said that the state has historically gone in as owner to ensure some valuable things, and sometimes it has been about jobs. I think car spare parts were one of those things. The state went in to make sure that Sweden as a nation and industrial country had something that worked. I'm sure it was wise then. However, I agree that we should not have a state-owned company for spare parts today. We're not gonna do that. But the fact that we went in was probably very important once. I can only regret it if you do not see that difference. So to SAS. As long as we have neighbouring countries that have state ownership in SAS, I think we should have it too, at least at the same level. But I am not sufficiently familiar with the issue to say that we are going to sell today or tomorrow. The timing is certainly important, but as long as our neighbours are owners of SAS, we should also be. I cannot say how much we should own, but I know that today we are bigger owners than our neighbours.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-639	Mr President, I would like to In my party, we do not think that the state should own companies, but if you do, they should be managed well. There are plans to sell companies as it is considered that the state should not own. One such company was Absolute. The Left Party was against that sale. Is it the task of the State to own companies involved in the production of alcohol, alcohol mills? It is basically the same discussion as the one on spare parts, but it is not because I think that a liquor factory is a matter of itself. You should sell at the right time, just as Birger Lahti says. From the discussion, Birger Lahti seems willing to sell companies, depending on what society looks like. Does this mean that we should not buy up more companies and that you can imagine selling companies? Is that how I'm supposed to perceive Birger Lahti?
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-644	Mr President, I would like to As I mentioned, it may at some point be worthwhile for the state to enter as owner if it has a longer-term purpose. It can make sense for many reasons. The world is changing fast. It would be crazy of me to say that we should never let go of an ownership that we have entered. But that the state should be an active owner who sees things changing and takes into account jobs and where they are in the country is important. There is a big difference in how we view state ownership. Wanting to sell for ideological reasons just for the state not to do it does not benefit the Swedish people in the long term. But if we see that the world has changed and we don't need anything anymore, I'm not against it being sold. As far as alcohol is concerned, I am pleased that we have Systembolaget and that Sweden has the strict alcohol policy we have.
i-3ydXHo5iY23pUdyKaPA1Mi	Mr President, I would like to I would like to vote in favour of reservation 3 in paragraph 5. It is an exciting debate. The tone is friendly, as someone said earlier, while it is possible to see great ideological differences. Mr President, I would like to In a market economy, the state makes laws, decides on taxes and deals with the exercise of authority. We should all agree on that. The State has the task of setting out the framework and rules applicable to business and enterprises. What is questionable is what we are debating today: owning and running businesses in the same breath. If the State is also a leading player in the market, the two roles are easily mixed together, which can lead to distorted competitive conditions and remarkable changes in markets. The state is a significant company owner in Sweden, which we have heard several talk about. In the state-owned corporate portfolio there are 49 wholly owned companies, two of which are listed. In addition, two operating foundations and one EU company are managed. Together, companies employ around 163 000 people, making them significant employers. It's like reservation 3 stipulates. It is a fact that the state is a major business owner and will remain so for a long time. This, in turn, places high demands on clear principles and long-termness in these principles. What does this mean? Well, responsible corporate governance on the part of the state means that ownership directives remain in place. There should be long-term rules for state-owned companies that actually apply. The long-term value of joint ownership is greater than the value of owning only companies. For this very reason, the alliance government sold all or part of Vin & Sprit, Telia Sonera, OMX, Nordea, the real estate company Vasakronan and others. Revenues were used to reduce public debt, just as this kind of revenue should be used for. From a liberal point of view, we believe that the state should sell its stake in SAS when the market so permits. Whole-state Vattenfall has increasingly moved towards acting as a commercial player on the international and, above all, the European market. We believe that Vattenfall's operations outside the Nordic region should be sold. These activities do not meet the value added or societal benefit criterion. The use of important state-owned companies with high added value as mere counters is questionable. What added value does such action bring? For example, what will SJ AB not be able to fulfill in its delivery to the Swedish people when you collect so much in profit? Another issue that has been raised is that of SJ's community mission. Elisabet Knutsson said in today's debate that the government is working on an expanded community mission for SJ. However, when the Minister for Infrastructure and I had a brief debate in Question Time a few weeks ago, she stated that there is no such work at all and that the social mission remains – quite the opposite. Then the question is given: What is the real issue? A definition of what the People's Party wants is quite simple. If a reduction in state ownership leads to a better functioning market and a more efficient public service, the State should reduce or phase out its ownership. This applies, for example, to the companies SBAB and Telia Sonera. Of course, sales revenues should be used to reduce public debt. What someone else can do better than the state should someone else do, simply. For our part, it is not relevant to discuss the sale of LKAB, Apoteket or Vattenfall's Nordic operations. The retail monopoly for alcohol needs to be protected, and Systembolaget should of course be owned by all of us. In those cases, the long-term value of joint ownership overshadows the other market advantages. As in a large part of politics, these two values must always be weighed against each other. That is what we are trying to do in our policy. Mr President, I would like to Let me exemplify a rather theoretical and ideological argument about the events of reality. The state-owned energy company Vattenfall recently reduced the value of its assets by another SEK 36 billion. In order to get a little balance, this amount can be compared to the fact that the entire airline SAS is valued at approximately EUR 5 billion. The latest write-downs concern the nuclear activities at Ringhals in my home county of Halland and coal power operations in Germany. In both cases, it is said that it is the business assessment and a combination of a lack of profitability, lower margins and increased risks that are behind it. Of course, one can hesitate about that explanation in the current confusion of political steering signals that have hailed in the last autumn and spring. Increased taxes and questionable political decisions do not make the market easier. Waterfall's any carbon black location did not occur overnight. There is a long line of mistakes, regardless of the color of the government that has represented the owner, that is, all of us. In total, the depreciation of the value of Vattenfall's assets has amounted to SEK 120 billion in recent years. It's quite incomprehensible sums for a single company. And where does the bill land? Yes, with us taxpayers. The steel bath of the energy giant is a sad example of the fundamental problem of state-wide corporations that have unclear or fragmented corporate governance where there is a lack of influential shareholders to protect their interests. All parts are founded outside the Nordic region, where no common value creation takes place that leads to Swedish state ownership. Finally, Mr President, the activities of state-owned companies must be the forerunner in sustainable enterprise through a long-term and responsible stance on human rights, working conditions, the environment, anti-corruption, business ethics, gender equality and diversity. The Board and management shall take a clear responsibility for the sustainability challenges and work towards long-term, challenging and follow-up sustainability goals that should primarily be focused on a continuously maintained or increased added value for Sweden in ownership, i.e. societal benefit. During the time of the alliance government, sustainable enterprise was successfully integrated into corporate governance to a greater extent than in the past. Hopefully, the government will continue this important work in the future.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-668	Mr President, I would like to The main task of the state in terms of entrepreneurship should be to set out the framework and rules that should apply primarily to the private sector, not to own and run businesses. But as we have heard here, the state is a significant corporate owner. The government portfolio currently has 49 wholly owned and partly owned companies, with which there is a great deal of responsibility. We Christian Democrats believe in principle that state ownership of companies operating in a competitive market should be reduced. In public ownership, the state sits on double chairs, both as judges and players. The Christian Democrats therefore believe that if changes in government ownership lead to better functioning markets and more efficient public services, the state should reduce or dismantle its ownership. Exemptions are companies with special social tasks. One example mentioned in the debate is Systembolaget. It is important that the government's governance of the state companies takes place within the framework established by the Riksdag. Therefore, we also believe that it is essential for the Government to anchor and obtain approval from the Riksdag regarding changes in the operational orientation of the state-owned companies, such as changes in ownership directives and articles of association. It is important to have a broad political consensus on the changes to be made to state ownership. My colleague from the Center Party spoke about Fouriertransform and Inland Innovation, which are mentioned in the state venture capital investigation. There was a change already in progress when the new government took office. One company, Fouriertransform, was amazed to learn that they would swing from being knowledgeable in the automotive industry to being able to a lot of life science and environmental technology. The t are two different areas that give a somewhat exciting a combination, I think. Who came up with this has not yet come to light, and it may never come to light. It may not matter, but I think it's interesting that someone or some have sat somewhere and figured out that it would be good to change the company fundamentally so that it does something completely different that it doesn't have competence for. One example of this is the government's action on the conditions for the energy industry. By increasing safety requirements as well as nuclear waste fees and the tax on thermal power, the state-owned company Vattenfall has changed the conditions to operate, and we have the previously announced closures of Ringhals 1 and 2 before 2020 and so on. Therefore, we would like to stress once again that it is important that decisions that have such profound effects on a state-owned company are taken with broad political support. You cannot come from one day to another and come up with something that has effects over time, above all. Mr President, I would like to I think it is always important to review public activities and how they are justified over time. Despite the legislation that will prohibit state-owned companies from distorting competition and exploiting their position, we have been able to see a trend with a widening of activities that gain market shares at the expense of private operators. This is a development contrary to the state ownership that we, as a party, want to see. Among the state-owned companies are Infranord AB, who works with construction work – there are many others who do – and Swedesurvey, who do surveying services abroad. That may be great, but let's get a good motivation for why they should work on this. Can these activities equally be carried out by private operators? Similarly, we believe that creating in-house activities that operate in open markets is not in line with the mandates of the companies. We have the example of Posten, which clearly competes with the attempts at private operators that exist around the country. There is an agreement with other countries on postal management and so on where one can directly question whether it is a government mission. I may not think it is, but we're having trouble getting the mail home. But we have discussed this before in this House, so I will not be long-winded about it. Once again, it is a matter of state responsibility having some form of social benefit in itself. That is why the debate on the Swedish state's ownership is important. It is not primarily about selling companies, but about the state as a responsible owner living up to current legislation. Therefore, there should be a transparent review of the activities of state-owned companies in the form of internal business development extending outwards to other actors, in competition with them. Mr President, I would like to The state's ownership policy states that state-owned companies should be examples of sustainability issues, gender equality, business ethics, the environment and social responsibility. Under the alliance government they did a solid job in this in the state companies. But it is also a question of economic sustainability, where one has a holistic view of social commitments. We have heard other debaters talk about the government picking out about SEK 2 billion from SJ. But we can also look at Akademiska Hus, for example. If I understood the figure correctly, it is up to SEK 6,500 million for the shareholder state to be paid in cash at an extraordinary general meeting on 15 October. There's a lot of money-- I think we all think so. What, then, is to be used for this considerable sum? But what do you get when you're gonna try to figure it out, 'cause it doesn't say anywhere. Then you can – as ordinary taxpayers and especially as a Member of Parliament – wonder if the money goes right into the state budget for something special. Are they earmarked for something? Do we need this money to fix something in the refugee situation? Then I am the first to say: Jajamensan, here we have a lot to do, and we need this money. But if the money goes into a black hole in the state budget to cover something that we as decision-makers in Parliament have no idea about, I think it is irresponsible by the government. Above all, we can all feel a little fooled here when we do not know where the money from the state-owned companies is going. I would also like to mention that from Swedavia, which owns the largest airports and the only profitable airports in the country, money is also collected. But above all, the profit there was 1 billion last year, 2014, while the small, regional airports, often run with municipal support, are currently struggling for their survival. Where is social responsibility and the holistic approach? It doesn't matter if we spend several million on the development of destinations in the tourism industry and if we invest in country shops, petrol stations and other things in the countryside if people can't get there or from there, because there are soon no trains or flights that go. Then we have not had a holistic view of either state funds as such or Swedish society. Mr President, I would like to I could talk a lot more about this. There is also another problem. It is not just about the state companies, where we should evaluate and see much more what happens, but also about the authorities that lead to companies. I would like to take this opportunity to mention once again, when I am here, the problem of the K. Correctional Service, which is competing in a private market with carpentry, laundries and other businesses. Had it been a company, the Competition Authority could at least look at it differently. But when it's an authority, they don't get to the problem that way. My final point in this debate is: yes, I am glad that we have businesses in corporate form, if they have a social benefit. If we have public funds with which we pay large businesses, they should have a social benefit. We have 49 companies so far, but I'm not sure we'll have it forever, but it's important to evaluate. I can also say that we have 343 authorities, of which 245 are state administrative authorities, and then we can see that we have something to do in this area too in terms of procurement rules and competition in the private market.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-690	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by supporting what Birger Lahti of the Left Party has said about state-owned companies. In a longer motion during this year's general period of exercise, the V i i in the V party discussed our view of the trade agreements currently being negotiated around the world. The main focus is on the TTIP agreement and the dispute resolution mechanism proposed, known as ISDS. In this motion on trade policy, there is one of our requests for motion which is dealt with in today's report on state enterprises and which I will now address in my speech. The case of the state-owned company Vattenfall's two lawsuits of Germany shows why it would be wise for the Riksdag to take power over any future lawsuits from the Swedish side against other countries. I am not saying that it is always wrong to sue, but that we have to think about it when we do so as a state. Today, decisions on lawsuits can be made in boardrooms of state-owned companies such as Vattenfall but not in our government or here in the Swedish parliament. Vattenfall has sued Germany twice with an ISDS clause in the agreement called the European Energy Charter. The first lawsuit was against the municipality of Hamburg, but since you cannot sue a municipality or county council in another country directly, the lawsuit automatically ends up on a state level. The Hamburg case concerned the city's decision to impose stricter environmental requirements on a planned coal power plant that Vattenfall intended to establish in Hamburg. They wanted to protect the Elbe Elbe, which runs through the city. The case ended in settlement. Hamburg withdrew parts of the environmental requirements it had planned to set. Otherwise, they would have paid EUR 1.4 billion, which Vattenfall demanded as compensation. The second atmosphere took place in response to Germany's political decision to phase out nuclear power. Vattenfall is demanding compensation of SEK 43 billion. It is based on revenue foregone in the context of the German decision of spring 2011 to close nuclear power in Germany until 2022. The legal basis is once again the European Energy Charter. The Swedish Government has passively supported Vattenfall's claims for damages. The case is still ongoing. Many cases where there is conciliation, including the case of Vattenfall against Hamburg, lead to a reduction in environmental requirements or other requirements. The ability of companies to sue also has a deterrent effect, as only threats of lawsuits risk having consequences for planned legislation. This leads to what could be termed regulatory chill effect, i.e. that companies' moods mean that states and municipalities need to think again before introducing a new regulation or law, if they think about it. A simple phone call can be a convenient way to resolve conflicts. However, because legal proceedings are costly and time - consuming, the phone call can be a disguised threat. The question is much greater than whether the state-owned companies act correctly and appropriately to safeguard the interests of the companies. It is, in fact, about our interests as a state. The state companies we own jointly, all citizens of Sweden. Therefore, the Riksdag should support the Left Party's proposal to regain power from the state corporate rooms and instead bring power here to the Swedish Parliament, so that we have the power to control our international relations. As a legislative national parliament, we should also be concerned about developments in which progressive legislation for the protection of people and the environment is being held back by threats of possible lawsuits. With this, I would like to call for approval of the Left Party's reservation 2.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-699	Mr President, I would like to I have a question about something completely different. As a center party, I am a little interested to know how a warming country views the proposal to remove Inland innovation and focus the money in a national company, when we know that 80% of all venture capital today ends up in the larger cities. It does not really feel like the Left Party's melody to support such a proposal. Therefore, I would like to have Håkan Svenneling's reflections on how the Left Party can agree to such a thing.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-700	Mr President, I would like to I thank Helena Lindahl for the question. Birger Lahti and I have divided this up in such a way that he is responsible for the state companies and I for the state capital supply. It should therefore be able to work perfectly well to answer this question. According to the policy pursued by the Left Party, we believe that the state has for a long time divided public venture capital into far too many companies. It has become sprawling and divisive, and it has entered into the state capital supply on a slightly different basis. Sometimes these have been sector-specific measures, and sometimes they have been geographical measures. It has not been very much collected, as we noted, among other things, at the committee's hearing early in the spring on state capital supply. On the basis of these events, the Left Party has for a long time had the idea that we need to bring together the state's venture capital ownership in a better way. I myself have visited Almi quite recently and seen how successful that business will be with a clear state. This makes us think it is a good idea to pool state ownership. Against this is what Helena Lindahl says, and which I think she is doing in a very wise and good way, namely: What is the risk of a closure of Inland innovation? Does this mean that the state does not take a deeper responsibility for northern Sweden or for Värmland, Dalarna and other parts? I have to say that I can share your concerns, Helena Lindahl, but that I think it will be able to go well. For example, in our rural movement, we in the Left Party have proposed that state venture capital companies should give a clearer account of where state venture capital ends up. It is of course about which companies are involved and which sectors. But it is also about where it ends up geographically. I would like to see in front of me a model in which, in the treatment of the state budget and in the case of venture capital and other things, we clarify the regional differences in Sweden and where the state invests its capital. I hope that we can come back to this in this House.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-707	Mr President, I would like to I thank Håkan Svenneling for a constructive answer and for the awareness of the Left Party that this is not entirely positive and simple. I personally and the Center Party think it is a good thing to look at state venture capital in order to see how it can be used more effectively. You have to do that all the time. That's why it's wise. But the problem is that you take money from those parts of the country where it is most difficult to get venture capital – that's what I and the Center Party are opposed to – and then you put it in some central administration. What we know today is that there is no geographical aspect whatsoever to this investigation. This means, as it stands today, that this will focus on the larger cities. Today we see centralisation in Sweden, and there have been many reports showing that the state is at the forefront of centralisation, leaving the countryside before the inhabitants and moving into larger towns and cities. It's not okay for the government to be the one that centralizes and pulls jobs into the cities. The same applies to state venture capital. There is great concern that this has not been included at all in this review and this investigation. There is also great concern that, at the interpellation debate that I had with him two weeks ago, our Minister for Economic Affairs Mikael Damberg did not see this problem either. He just said: It is my absolute conviction that it will work out. I cannot just rely on absolute conviction and faith. Faith can be done in the church. In the Swedish Parliament we must decide.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-714	Mr President, I would like to The last thing you bring up, Helena Lindahl, I think sounds good. It is very important that we in this House, from all parliamentary parties, highlight our concerns and that we actually monitor these issues, so that our Minister for Economic Affairs cannot believe that everything is going well. I do not think that Inland innovation in all its parts has succeeded in its mission. That is why I am also in favour of making changes. I think it is important to see that it naturally takes time to build up a business. But Inland innovation has not even reached out across the entire geography for which one has been responsible, according to my view. When it comes to the investigation that proposes a fund-in-fund solution, I can share what Helena Lindahl points out about perhaps having had a little rural perspective in it. I have sometimes been a little surprised by the investigator's conclusions. Although he is from Hagfors in Värmland, he has meant that the important thing all the time is to focus where the market wants to grow. I think you should have a slightly broader perspective in some parts. I also share Helena Lindahl's criticism that it is the state that is moving. This is something that I have also highlighted many times, most recently yesterday in an interpellation debate with the Minister for Civil Affairs. I am also on the State Rural Committee, which is a parliamentary inquiry with all eight parties in Parliament. There are also these issues on the agenda: how do we ensure that the whole country lives, and how do we ensure that we have a coherent rural policy? That is something that I hope we can bring forward and that we can ensure that we make concrete proposals so that we can make the whole country live.
i-ba67269c80ee72e7-719	Mr President, I would like to I am not a member of the Committee on Industry, Public Health and Consumer Policy, but I am very committed to these issues. Just over ten years ago, Vattenfall's management team received a report, which they had ordered themselves, about their coal activities in Poland. The report showed that this was not very successful. There was great dissatisfaction, and much needed to be done. The report also warned that if Vattenfall continued to invest in coal and even nuclear power there were very high risks of very high losses, both economically and imageally. The report recommended a strong and rapid transition to renewables. If Vattenfall's management had listened to what was said in the report, we would have avoided 128 billion in depreciation today. Despite this, no one on that board has held responsible for this huge loss to taxpayers, the environment and Sweden's reputation. What can we do to prevent this from happening again? Well, my view of state ownership – some have had a principled stance here – is that if there is a risk of natural monopolies or if there is a service that all citizens must have access to that can be difficult to achieve for geographical reasons or because you do not have enough money, that is, for economic reasons, then it is natural for the state to go in and ensure that all citizens have this service. If this is the purpose of state ownership, there is no reason to go and buy coal power or anything else around the world. Then the aim is to generate a service to citizens as efficiently as possible. That is for me the reason for state ownership. In order to avoid that Vattenfall or any other company continues to make this kind of decision, it is important that we change the organisational model. Government governance has not worked, regardless of government. There's not a glass pane left in the glass house that's whole after we throw this at each other. There is a need for a new form of companies that are self-governing towards the objectives of the Ownership Directives. Then the public interest company is a very interesting variant. They are based on a model from England, Network Rail, which was created when the English train privatisation had completely failed and eventually there were fatal accidents after delays. This new model has a consensus-based structure, in which employees, customers, technical experts and lenders jointly decide in a consensus culture to achieve a target hierarchy, setting environmental targets, punctuality, security and so on and including funded stability. Then you have a structure that self-directs towards the objectives that are the purpose of public ownership. I therefore wish that by next year we will have time to develop ideas and ideas about new ways of organising state-owned companies. Then we come to SJ, and the Riksdag will criticise in the first because no one has asked for approval of the reservation. That's reasonable. But this is not irresponsible, because it was an old government that said that we had to have a net debt ratio of 0.5 – 1 times the capital and that 30 – 50 percent would be dividends. That's why they took out a lot of billions. Now I'm really happy because it seems like we all agree that we shouldn't do this. That was wrong. We should have ownership management that means that government companies will return to the Riksdag if they do such big things. I learned about this from a friend who tipped me off that SJ had an extraordinary general meeting. I then read their actions. I wasn't told by any formal procedure. That's wrong! As a parliament, we should have the right to govern a government – regardless of its colour – and make it clear that it is facing a choice, namely to comply with old ownership directives on having a certain net debt ratio or to make the investments that all parties in parliament seem to want. Then the government should have a clear mandate to come back to Parliament and ask whether the old decision on net debt should be fulfilled or whether we want trains that work. It would be a logical structure. Now it seems that we agree in this House that we should do so in the future and not collect a lot of money in the way that has been done so far.
