i-fe40044cf8417237-5	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! Karin Enström has asked me what questions the cabinet secretary raised during the Moscow visit, what messages the cabinet secretary conveyed, which the cabinet secretary met and what resulted from these meetings. As far as Russia is concerned, there has been a long-standing consensus between government and opposition in Sweden as regards our bilateral relationship with Russia. It is a strength that, as I see it, we agree in our condemnation of Russia's aggression against Ukraine, including Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea and Sevastopol. We also share the view of Russia's bombings in Syria, the meaning of democracy and respect for human rights, the importance of maintaining the European security regime, the meaning of free trade, the risks associated with provocative behaviour in the Baltic Sea region, and more. It is also of great importance to have contact with neighbouring countries, not least because we can clearly express Sweden's positions, for example to Russia. In this is that we should do so not only through statements, but also in direct talks. The dialogue with Russia should be used in this way, to express our positions, to respond to Russian positions and to discuss both bilateral issues and issues on the international agenda. The trip referred to by Karin Enström took place on October 12 – 13 and was part of our work for this purpose. It was a continuation of the regular contacts that Sweden has with Russia at different levels and in different forums. During the visit, the Cabinet Secretary presented the Swedish positions on bilateral and regional issues as well as on multilateral issues in talks with Russia's first Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs Vladimir Titov. In addition to Russian official representatives, the Cabinet Secretary also met representatives of Russian civil society during his visit to Moscow. That is how we should work with Russia; with a broad approach involving contacts with both official representatives and representatives of Russian society. In these talks we clearly present Swedish positions and assert Swedish interests, and we listen to what the Russian side has to say.
i-fe40044cf8417237-10	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. I am not going to turn this into a debate, but I am pleased with the answer. It is important that we as a country and the government bring forward the Swedish messages in different ways, and I think that is well described in the interpellation response. I hope that together we will be vigilant in monitoring developments, because there is a lot of concern about what Russia is doing. I therefore appreciate the clarity of the answer. We will certainly have reason to continue to discuss these issues.
i-fe40044cf8417237-12	Madam President, I would like I appreciate that we have a great deal of agreement on these issues. It is important for us to inform about such contacts and their follow-up.
i-fe40044cf8417237-13	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! Mathias Sundin has asked me why I have not condemned the terrorist attacks on civilian Israelis and whether I intend to call the Palestinian ambassador to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to indicate that she does not reject the terrorist attacks. Magnus Oscarsson has asked me whether the government intends to support moderate forces in Palestine and, if so, who. Kent Ekeroth has asked how the government views President Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian Authority and Fatah. I choose to respond to the interpellations in a context. Let me first make it clear that I have expressly rejected violence against civilians and made it clear that all acts of terrorism are reprehensible and must be condemned. In connection with the recent acts of violence in Israel and Palestine, I have done so in a speech to the UN Security Council, in a debate article in Israeli media and on several other occasions. My condemnations have taken place when both Palestinians and Israelis have carried out the acts. I have also stressed the importance of bringing guilty persons to justice. I share the strong concern of the authors of the questions about the development of violence in Israel and Palestine. October and November were marked by violence in a way and with an intensity not seen for a decade in Israel and in the West Bank, including East Jerusalem. During these two months 21 Israelis and 100 Palestinians were killed in knife attacks, acts of violence, demonstrations and clashes. In October alone, the number of injured was 115 Israelis and 7,392 Palestinians, of which about 5,000 in tear gas attacks. The current situation is unsustainable. Violence must stop. The President of Palestine has publicly renounced terrorism, most recently in connection with the terrorist attacks in Paris, as has the Ambassador. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has close diplomatic contacts with Palestine and Israel, including with the ambassadors in Stockholm. In these talks, the government stresses the importance of acting constructively in order to avoid increased polarisation and increased violence. The government is very clear about the rejection of violence against civilians. Just as we are making demands on Israel, we are making demands on Palestine. Madam President, I would like The government supports moderate forces in Palestine. The government supports the Palestinian Authority and other actors in Palestine who recognise Israel's right to exist and seek a diplomatic and negotiated solution to the conflict so that Israel and Palestine can live side by side in peace and security. I note that President Abbas has made it his life's task to replace the road of violence with diplomatic struggle to bring an end to the Israeli occupation of Palestine. I also note that, in addition to his rejection of terrorism, President Abbas has also spoken out against calls for violent opposition to the Israeli occupying power. Security cooperation with Israel continues, as both sides have appreciated. The government is working for intra-Palestinian reconciliation, including between Fatah and Hamas, as well as for actors to act constructively politically to end the occupation and obtain an agreed two-state solution. The goal remains that Israel and Palestine should be able to live side by side in peace and security.
i-fe40044cf8417237-20	Madam President, I would like At the beginning of October, a family prays at the western wall near Temple Mountain. A Palestinian man rushes up and chops the father first, then the mother, then their little child, and finally a rabbi rushing forward to try to help the family. The father and the rabbi are dying. The mother and the baby will be fine, but they will suffer severe injuries. Since September, 22 Israeli civilians have been killed in such attacks. 215 have been damaged. There have been 84 stabbings, 30 shootings and 12 car frames until 30 November, and it has continued even since then, i.e. on average two a day. That's equivalent to two Trollhättan attacks a day. We know what a trauma it was for us when we were subjected to such an attack, and now we just got the news that another person has died of injuries from the Trollhättan attack. But this happens daily in Israel. The attacks just started at Temple Mountain. President Abbas recently received criticism from the UN director for saying that the Jews should not be there, on Mount Temple, with their dirty feet. Does it sound like he's trying to dampen the violence? The UN director criticised Abbas precisely for inciting more violence instead of alleviating the tensions and violence that are going on. Palestine's ambassador to Sweden, who naturally speaks for the Palestinian Authority, has received several questions in various Swedish media about the attacks. One can read in Aftonbladet that she refuses to condemn the attacks. She says, "I can't even call it violence." However, the Swedish Government has not called the ambassador or publicly made any protests. In reply to me, the Foreign Minister says that Palestinian representatives have renounced violence, but the ambassador herself explicitly says that she cannot even call it violence. When news of new Israeli settlements is coming from time to time, the condemnations by the Foreign Minister are sharp, immediate and direct against Israel, without involving anything else. However, when it comes to terrorism that is ongoing on a daily basis and the Palestinian Authority does not clearly reject this terrorism, it will instead be blustered to reject violence in general. On all other occasions – all other violence and terrorism in Paris, in Beirut and so on – the condemnation is directed against that particular terrorism. It does not involve other terrorism at the same time. It is not said: I condemn the attacks in Paris and at the same time French terrorism. However, when it comes to attacks in Israel, against civilian Israelis, we want to involve something else all the time. It is a very strange situation, and it is always an indication of Israel. I can only interpret it as trying to alleviate the debt of the Palestinian forces and shift the blame to Israel for the terrorism that exists.
i-fe40044cf8417237-27	Madam President, I would like The recent wave of terror has been encouraged by the Palestinian President Abbas, who said, in a television broadcast, that Al-Aqsamoské n is ours. The Jews have no right to desecrate it with their dirty feet. We bless every drop of blood spilled for Jerusalem. This is pure blood, blood on the way to Gud. With Gud's help, every martyr will be in heaven and every injured one will receive his reward. So it is clear that President Abbas pays homage to terrorists as martyrs. The Palestinian Government has refused to distance itself from the terrorist attacks on civilian Israelis. In an interview in SVT's Agenda on 18 October, the Palestinian ambassador consistently abstained from the opportunity to distance himself from these terrible attacks. In a previous parliamentary interpellation debate, the Foreign Minister has stated that Abbas is the leader of the moderate forces in Palestine. That is why it is important for us in this House and for those who are listening to clarify whether the Foreign Minister stands by this analysis or whether it has changed as a result of recent events and Abbas's tributes to the murder of civilians. Reasonably, the government that celebrates terrorism cannot be regarded as moderate power. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs remains: what moderate forces remain for the Swedish Government to cooperate with in Palestine?
i-fe40044cf8417237-31	Madam President, I would like I am very pleased that Mathias Sundin and Magnus Oscarsson are also taking part in this interpellation debate. They obviously have a good understanding of what is happening in Israel. Mrs Wallström said in her reply that Mahmoud Abbas is a form of peacekeeper and that he condemns terrorism. As previous speakers have pointed out, he may condemn terrorism when French citizens are killed – he feels compelled to do so – but when Israelis are killed by Palestinian terrorists, it is not a major problem. None of the murders of 20 Israelis in the last two months by Palestinian terrorists have been condemned by Abbas. On the contrary, many of the leaders of PA and Fatah have glorified the murderers. We heard a few quotes just recently. I've got a few more. Jibril Rajoub, who sits on Fatah's Central Committee, said only on 17 October this year in the official Palestinian television channel in response to the ongoing terrorist attacks that he congratulates everyone who carried them out. He's proud of them. He also felt that a specific post on a blog from a terrorist who stabbed another Israeli should be taught in Palestinian schools. Abbas Zaki, also a member of Fatah's Central Committee, said on 31 October, not at all long ago, on the occasion of four Israeli murders, that those who committed these murders are Your own golden boy, Mahmoud Abbas, said, as we heard just now, in person on 16 September, that we bless every drop of blood spilled for Jerusalem in connection with the violence against Israelis. Nor should we forget that the Palestinian Authority has named 25 schools after terrorists, including after Dalal Mughrabi, who killed 37 civilians, of which 12 children. It's not enough that Abbas doesn't condemn the murder of Israelis-- he rewards it. For example, every murderer caught by Israel in the last two months receives a salary from the Palestinian Authority and the PLO, money that Abbas controls. Even the five Hamas assassins who killed a young couple in front of their four children receive a salary from the Palestinian Authority of Mahmoud Abbas. These salary payments now amount to more than SEK 1.2 billion per year. One might wonder how Mrs Wallström can argue that the Palestinian Authority, headed by Abbas, condemns terrorism when it actually rewards it? The highest salaries to terrorists in prison are 300 percent above the average salary of a Palestinian official. In addition, the salary is based on the length of time the terrorist has spent in prison – so the worse the terrorist crime, the more money. Not least, it is about money from Swedish taxpayers, which you are happy to give. Mrs Wallström is either deeply ignorant of Abbas's own statements, of PA's constant tribute to terrorists and of their financial reward, or she is lying. None of the options are particularly flattering. Therefore, I should like to ask two questions: Is Wallström aware of the tributes to terrorism from the Palestinian leadership, from senior politicians, on Palestinian television, in their children's programmes, and on their official Facebook and Twitter accounts – yes or no? And is Mrs Wallström aware that the Palestinian Authority, with the help of Swedish taxpayers' money in the form of, among other things, the aid that this government shocked, rewards terrorists with money – yes or no?
i-VZ2YgktDuekX54s6rS7tRq	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! Thanks to the interpellants for the comments! I would like to emphasise two points. Firstly, of course, I share in the depths of my heart the concern expressed by the interpellants about the development of violence in Israel and Palestine. I think all of us, like moms and dads, sisters and brothers or friends, can imagine the pain of seeing those you love killed on the open street in this kind of deed. Secondly, I would like to emphasise that they are wrong in their assertions that Sweden and I, as Foreign Minister, have not renounced violence. We have done so explicitly, and I have made it clear that all acts of terrorism are reprehensible and must be condemned by everyone. In connection with the recent acts of violence in Israel and Palestine, I have done so in speeches to the UN Security Council, in debate articles, on Twitter and so on. My condemnations have, of course, applied when Palestinians as well as Israelis have carried out the acts. I have also stressed the importance of bringing guilty persons to justice and of not using extrajudicial executions. Of course, I had hoped that Mathias Sundin, especially, would help to strengthen the links between Sweden and Israel. But I feel that many times instead it is a split between us. It is not an attempt to bridge over, it is a matter of helping to sow splits. Sweden is a friend of Israel. I appreciate the cooperation we have with Israel in a great many areas. It is also one of our main trading partners in that part of the world. As small and innovative economies, we have a lot in common. We have highly educated, curious and creative populations. There is much that we can learn from each other, and we need to build on our relations in politics, research, business and other areas. And we want to continue to deepen and develop our relationship with Israel. I object to any attempt to paint Sweden, our government or myself as Israel's enemy. We're not. It's the other way around. I'd be happy to repeat that. Sweden is a friend of Israel, just as Sweden is a friend of Palestine. We are a friend of peace. We are a friend of the idea that we should be able to build a two-state solution. Both countries have the obvious right to exist, live, develop and feel good within safe and recognised borders. The only way to achieve that goal is through a peace process. The recognition of Palestine was to make the parties a little less unequal and to increase opportunities for a peace process. I don't think this is where we should discuss interpretations and translations of statements that have been made– there are very many different interpretations and translations of what Abbas has said. I don't think we should do that. The important thing is that they disassociate themselves from violence. I myself have heard President Abbas do this, so I know he rejects the violence. Then we know that the debate is heated in both Israel and Palestine. It escalates the violence. We would like them both to contribute to the creation of a conciliatory atmosphere. We want them to actually start talking to each other and start a peace process that makes sense. I also know that Palestine's ambassador in Stockholm has renounced violence against civilians. She said in Agenda, as a point of view on the knife attacks: We are against all kids. She also explained that Palestine's position is diplomacy and that negotiations are the way forward.
i-fe40044cf8417237-47	Madam President, I would like If the Minister for Foreign Affairs thinks I'm the one who's sowing the split between Sweden and Israel, I'll probably have to correct that picture. It is the repeated different forms of attacks on Israel by the Foreign Minister that sow the split. This is precisely what we are debating now. The Foreign Minister is unable to distance himself from Palestinian terrorism without involving Israel at the same time. That is precisely what the Israelis are reacting to. When there was an attack in Trollhättan, the Israeli ambassador here immediately distanced himself from this. He said nothing about Palestinians, French, Lebanese or anything else. He just distanced himself from that particular terrorist attack. This is exactly what you want to hear in such a situation, but it cannot be done by the Swedish Government and the Swedish Minister for Foreign Affairs. Repeatedly now, on Twitter and in other contexts, it is also a condemnation of Israeli terrorism, even when it does not occur. When we have seen a wave of attacks by Palestinian terrorists on civilian Israelis, the Foreign Minister rejects that violence but also other violence. Why? You didn't do that when it came to Paris. You didn't disassociate yourself from any other violence at the same time, but you disassociated yourself from this very thing. But in the case of Israel, the other side must always be involved. What then happens is that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the one hand, reduces the violence against civilian Israelis and, on the other hand, puts some of the blame on Israel. That is precisely what causes a split between our two countries. The Minister for Foreign Affairs seems to have a very difficult time not to involve Israel in all sorts of different situations. In the aftermath of the attacks in Paris, the Minister for Foreign Affairs received a question in SVT about radicalisation of young people in Sweden and whether there is a concern about radicalisation and the connection to IS. In his reply, the Foreign Minister began to talk directly about Palestinians who resort to violence and who feel a hopeless situation. What did that have to do with it? Of course, the Israelis are responding. There's a split between our countries. A two-state solution is exactly what I and the Liberals are advocating. That is not what President Abbas is advocating. I'm sure he'll say it. In action – that's what's important – he's said no to a two-state solution. As recently as 2008, he received an offer from the then Israeli Prime Minister, Olmert, about a two-state solution or a Palestinian state next to an Israeli. He didn't even answer. He didn't even make a counteroffer. There was no negotiation. He went home and did nothing. The same thing we saw in 2000, when Arafat said no to the offer that was there, Abbas was there as one of the negotiators. Twice over the last 15 years, the Palestinian leadership has said no to a two-state solution in action. The Secretary of State is shaking his head. Isn't that right? Didn't Arafat say no? Didn't Abbas say nothing? Isn't that right? Can the Foreign Minister now distance himself from only Palestinian terrorism? Last summer, when a small Palestinian child was killed, Israeli leaders took full distance and visited the families. Can Sweden's Foreign Minister do the same the other way?
i-fe40044cf8417237-56	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer! However, my question remains. The moderate force to which the Minister for Foreign Affairs refers has clearly stated this. And what we have heard before and what the Foreign Minister says is that he has now changed his mind. Yet, almost every week there are statements from President Abbas expressing his agreement that blood is shed for Jerusalem. With regard to the statement that was read out earlier, rhetoric sounds as if it were IS terrorists or another terrorist group. But it is not, in fact, but in this case it is Palestine's President Abbas. The Swedish Government has said that it is him we should cooperate with and be with. My question to the Foreign Minister is: is it President Abbas who is the moderate force with which the government will continue to cooperate?
i-fe40044cf8417237-59	Madam President, I would like No, you do not reject terrorism, as Mrs Wallström said, and you are not a friend of peace. You just talk a little bit. It then rewards a terrorist state led by a leader who calls for terrorism, who supports terrorism and who pays money to terrorists. One rewards one with a recognition, with Swedish taxpayers' money and by inviting him to a little cutely flirt with him in Sweden. Then you don't distance yourself. Mrs Wallström then says that she has heard him disassociately. But not once in the last two months, with over 20 Israelis dead, has he disowned. On Fatah's official Facebook page there is a picture of a knife in the back of a Jew, and so it says: Here in Jerusalem – take care of yourself! In Fatah's official Twitter account, just a month ago, you see a Palestinian terrorist playing violin on a knife. Knives are now used daily to attack Jews. Here is another picture from Fatah's Facebook account, which is checked by Mahmoud Abbas. It is a picture of a book from 1936 in Germany, and it says: Don't trust a Jew. This is from 29 October 2015. I am sorry, but it cannot be said that Mahmoud Abbas is a friend of peace when his collected propaganda apparatus, from social media to television channels, schools, mosques, himself and his members of the Central Committee, daily and recently, just weeks and days ago, hails terrorists, hails the knife attacks, baptizes schools after murderers and has eulogies on the official channels to salute those who have just stabbed Jews. I'm sorry, Wallström, but that doesn't work anymore. What Mrs Wallström and others have to understand is that Abbas speaks two languages – one to gullible politicians where he claims to want to speak peace and another to Palestinians where he promotes, glorifies and rewards terror. Mrs Wallström must stop listening to what he may say to her between the bowl and the wall and instead listen to what he says to his own. I have another example: three times this year, on 6 March, on 15 May and 23 May on the official Palestinian television channel, and I can give Mrs Wallström all the sources whenever she wants, it was a programme director in a children's programme who was talking to a doll or something like that. He said: My friends, I tell you that Jaffa, Haifa, Accra, Nazareth and all Palestinian cities occupied in 1948 will return to us one day. The interesting thing is that Jaffa, Haifa, Akko and Nazareth are outside the disputed areas, but they should still have them back. This is what they teach their children! Note also that PA allows the security cooperation that Wallström said in its opening comment is for one reason only, and it is for Hamas not to take over. Had Israel not helped them, Hamas would have taken over what you call the West Bank long, long ago. I also note, Madam President, that Mrs Wallström is not answering my questions. The questions I asked were: Is she aware of the indoctrination that is constantly going on from all the official channels of PA, and how does it go with the idea of peace? Is she aware that the PA is paying out money to terrorists, more the worse the crimes that have been committed? How does it go with the idea of peace? Can Wallström give a single example of Abbas condemning the Palestinian terror against Israel this year? I don't think so, and so the talk about Abbas being really a pretty cute guy who takes his distance and is for peace is a big lie. Either Margot Wallström does not know about it or she stands here lying to the Swedish people – both of them equally seriously.
i-fe40044cf8417237-70	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to President Abbas, however, I note that he has made it his life's task to replace the road of violence with diplomatic struggle to end the Israeli occupation of Palestine. I also note that President Abbas has publicly dissociated himself from terrorism. Following the terrorist attacks in Paris, he expressed his solidarity and sympathy with the French Government and the French people against terrorism and for international unity against terrorist acts. He also did so in October when he urged the Palestinians to refrain from violence and said at the same time that he did not want to end up in armed conflict with Israel: ..................................................... The Palestinian Authority has repeatedly pledged to respect human rights, and the PLO has signed the so-called Barcelona Declaration, which contains sections on respect for democratic processes and respect for human rights principles. Abbas has continued security cooperation with Israel despite the increasing distance between the parties and despite the continued settlement policy. That's the problem. There are two parties here who, in that case, must act together in order to come to a peace process. Then Israel cannot continue with the settlement policy, which makes a two-state solution impossible at last. I don't think we should keep picking out individual quotes. Kent Ekeroth is probably quite grateful if I refrain from picking up individual quotes from members of the Swedish Democrats or showing claims that have been found on various websites, blogs and twitter. I think we all benefit from that. Of course, such things can be done, and I think that criticism can and should be made publicly. Then, of course, the Palestinians, Abbas and other representatives will have to respond to that. I can't take on that task. I can tell you what forces we can support at present if we are interested in a two-state solution. Who is it that we have to actually help forward for peace in the Middle East? Then Abbas, even though he is weakened and despite the fact that there are many problems in Palestinian reconciliation, is the best contact we can have, and he has indeed made it his life's task to work against violence and to work for a negotiated solution. We are not leaving budget support directly to Palestine. We support the Palestinian Authority through the EU mechanism known as Pegase. It is a carefully earmarked contribution to a certain part of the budget. It is about the salaries and pensions of employees in the health and education sectors, and that is how we use that support. There are no EU funds to support Palestinian prisoners in Israeli prisons. On the other hand, like the rest of the international community, we have received information from the Palestinian Authority that the Palestinian Authority contributes to the food and necessities of prisoners at times. The Palestinian Authority provides social assistance to certain families of prisoners when there are special needs. In our dialogue with both Israel and Palestine, we call for restraint. We also call for a proportionate response. As regards the constant escalation of violence, these figures are important to point out: while 21 Israelis have been killed, 100 Palestinians have died in connection with these attacks. While 115 Israelis have been injured, there are 7,392 Palestinians. That's the problem. This is not the situation in many of the other acts, and we must condemn both the stabbings and, of course, disproportionate responses to these acts.
i-fe40044cf8417237-80	Madam President, I would like Now it came: When you are attacked and defended against attacks, the violence is confused with the terrorism that triggers the answer. It is not the case that Israeli attacks are taking place inside Palestine. You don't go around shooting people. But there have been over 600 Molotov cocktails thrown against Israeli military and police. There are riots and stonings all the time. If this were not to happen, no one would die. When terrorists have been shot in these knife attacks, for example, this is exactly how the Swedish police act. The Secretary of State is shaking his head.
i-0a6da2a2b3436cbd-0	It must be factual. ) You act in exactly the same way. You don't shoot in the legs to stop that kind of knife attack; you shoot in the body to immediately stop the attack. This is confusing the Secretary of State. How are we gonna help? Yes, by supporting democratic forces. Abbas is not a democratic force. He's into, what is it now, the eleventh year of a four-year term of office. There are no human rights, because Palestinians are to be controlled by the Palestinian Authority. That's how it gets back to me. There is no problem with condemnation when it comes to settlements. I am not a fan of settlements in any way, but to say that that is the problem, while we see Israelis being cut down every day, to say that the main problem is that houses are being built and that it would be worse than knife attacks – it becomes completely absurd, and it is no wonder that Israel does not see Sweden and Sweden's Foreign Minister as any friend.
i-fe40044cf8417237-86	Madam President, I would like I hope the Foreign Minister can understand that we are wondering when we hear the government's position. We still know that Abbas has said what he has said. It is important to emphasise this. He reacts to counterattack and expresses his blessing on blood spilled in Jerusalem. It is still surprising that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is not telling us that it is not possible to do so. In a newspaper article at the beginning of the year, the Foreign Minister said that Abbas has always distanced himself from violence. That's not true because he hasn't. What we relate to, we haven't made it up. We've been able to follow exactly what he's said on TV. Clearly, he does not reject violence. Is this the continued position of the Foreign Minister, or has the truth come to an end? Who will the Swedish government cooperate with – a president who celebrates violence and death in Jerusalem or Hamas who has shot thousands of rockets over Israel to kill civilians and who wants to throw all the Jews into the sea?
i-fe40044cf8417237-89	Madam President, I would like The logic that Mrs Wallström runs with here, she does not apply to any country in the rest of the world. If any other nation were to do what the Palestinian Authority is doing in the form of propaganda and salaries to terrorists, the sound would probably be different from that government, which says a lot. Mrs Wallström is talking about earmarked money for something that does not go to the salaries of terrorists. But don't you understand how a budget goes together? If the Palestinian Authority receives money from Sweden to cover its welfare, they will receive money to give to terrorists. It is the same vessel that the money is taken from, which means that when Sweden supports a nation with money that is said to go to some form of welfare there is more money left to pay to the terrorists – 1.2 billion a year. Shouldn't the government react? Wallström says that the money goes to socially vulnerable families and families who are in short supply of money, e.g., among others. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Prisoners receive 300 percent more than the average salary of a Palestinian official. It is not a question of social welfare. Two thirds of the prisoners are unmarried, have no families, and still receive the same high wages. The longer the time in prison, the more money. The more they kill, the more money. Happy birthday! Then Mrs Wallström comes up with an argument so common that you get tired of it. The number of dead is not a measure of who is right or wrong. With this logic, Mrs Wallström would think that Germany was right in World War II. Of course, that is not the case. The number of dead doesn't decide what's right or what's wrong. What determines what is right or wrong is who stands for aggression, who stands for hatred, indoctrination and violence. The answer to that question is so obvious that it is astounded that the government has not realised it. It is, of course, the so-called Palestinian side.
i-fe40044cf8417237-93	Madam President, I would like Excuse me, Madam President, but should one have to hear such things from a party whose representatives in the streets and squares arm themselves with iron pipes and talk derogatoryly about other people who are indeed making statements that do not belong to a democracy? Where Kent Ekeroth gets his information from the wheat gods. We must be careful in the debate. If we are all in favour of a two-state solution – I think that is our common position – we need to think very carefully about what forces we can support that can contribute to that solution. It's far from perfect on both sides. There are many who are warmongers and who are conducting an inappropriate, excessive and hateful debate. We need to think about how we create the conditions for a return to a peace process. This is the best we have. We can and will continue to criticize Abbas. We shall continue to criticise when they do things that are wrong, and we shall continue to press for democratic elections. That's how we can get involved with them. You have the right to criticise and demand clarification of what they really mean and to demand that they more clearly disassociate themselves from violence. So do I. But what is the alternative? What forces should we support? It is not unimportant to settler politics. It makes a two-state solution impossible. I'm distancing myself from stabbing. It is terrible, and it must not occur. Israel always has the right to defend itself, to ensure its safety. But I also say in other situations that the response must not be such that there are extrajudicial executions or otherwise disproportionate so that the number of deaths exceeds the original number of deaths several times over. This is not the way forward for the Middle East. You have to be careful on both sides, and we have to be friends of peace. That's what it's all about. Don't say anything else about what I've said. I have never mentioned the word Israel in the debate that is now being referred to. It is important for the truth to come to light on this.
i-fe40044cf8417237-99	Madam President, I would like Member of Parliament Isabella Hökmark has asked me what measures other than reducing the fees for participation in the cultural school that the government intends to take in order for more children and young people to have access to the cultural and music schools in the light of the proposal for grants to promote low tariffs in the municipal music and culture school submitted in the 2016 budget bill. I am pleased that the Moderates express interest in and concern for the municipal music and cultural schools. If we can get a broad political collection around the development of the municipal music and culture school, we do the culture, our children and future cultural practitioners and cultural consumers a great service. Just as Isabella Hökmark writes, the culture school is different in different parts of the country. Many municipalities have a living business with a wide range of education, where students can choose between playing an instrument, trying out theatre or developing their film interest, while other municipalities completely lack their own cultural school activities. Some children and young people have so far to the cultural school that it is impossible for them to participate in the education, and others have to wait a long time for a place. At the same time, many municipalities see the cultural school as a priority activity, and teaching places are offered to anyone looking for a place. These differences are one of the reasons why the government has set up an investigation to develop a strategy for the municipal music and culture school. The purpose is precisely to make the business more accessible and equal, and we need to know more about what the cultural school looks like in different parts of the country. The investigation will therefore map and describe the activities throughout Sweden. The task is also to identify what causes some children and young people not to participate in the activities and to look at the teacher situation and what courses are offered and requested. I am sure that the investigation will provide knowledge that will enable us from the Government and the Riksdag to support this important, fun and for many children and young people in an even clearer and more powerful way.
i-fe40044cf8417237-104	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your reply from the Minister for Culture. The Minister for Culture says it's fun that we Moderates protect culture. After eight years with an alliance government and a moderate Minister for Culture, no one has gone past that we have protected culture very much. In a proposal in 2009, we entered children's and young people's right to culture and sport. It was also the moderate Minister of Culture Lena Adelsohn Liljeroth who launched the Creation School initiative of 185 million so that everyone will have access to culture and music in school, which reaches 770 000 students – far more than the music school. What I question here is the reform that you are proposing, in which you are giving SEK 100 million to reduce the fees in the cultural school. If you look at statistics on the fees you can see that there are several municipalities that have zero in the fee. The fees are between SEK 300 and 800 with an average of SEK 600. Those with high fees are Stockholm municipalities. There are 13 Stockholm municipalities, including Danderyd, Täby and Lidingö. They have quite a prosperous population, if I may say so, which I suppose would benefit from this reform. The Minister of Culture says that the government has an investigation in progress, but one precedes the investigation by throwing out SEK 100 million on something without knowing what the investigation leads to. It's unbelievable.
i-fe40044cf8417237-111	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that Member of Parliament Hökmark and, I expect, the entire Moderates are so committed to the cultural school. I believe that we will be able to work well together in the future, not least when the investigation comes up with its proposals and we will make policy out of them. I can reassure the honourable Member on one point: support for the cultural school, this 100 million which the government is now prioritising in order to promote low fees in the cultural school, will be directed towards the whole country. It will promote low fees and help to make cultural school more equal and accessible. It will be up to each municipality – there will be a freedom, an opportunity, in applying for these funds. But this is a first step, a priority first step. We can't wait. The cultural school is so important that we cannot wait for the results of the investigation. But we have many great ambitions for the cultural school. Today, the school of culture does not reach everyone, while we know that it is crucial for a great many people. Some komm uner has a fantastic multi-phase entrenched range. Others have almost no choice at all. Some municipalities have well-educated teachers. In other municipalities, culture school cannot be conducted due to a lack of teachers. In some municipalities, fees are high. In other municipalities, fees are low, just as Parliament member Hökmark describes, and some have no fee at all. In some municipalities, the school of culture is completely lacking, and we cannot have it. In my vision of cultural policy, culture is open and accessible to all. We need to know more and do more precisely in order for all children and young people to have the opportunity to try and develop their creation, no matter where they live in the country and no matter how much money their parents have been able to prioritise for this.
i-fe40044cf8417237-116	Madam President, I would like The investigation that the Minister of Culture is talking about is a survey to identify obstacles. It shall be reported by 30 September 2016. Almost a year before that, you choose to reduce the fees by SEK 100 million. There's a lot more to bet on. In order to reach those who really need to be reached, I think there are better ways to target the grants than to make a general reduction for, for example, the 13 Stockholm municipalities with fees of around SEK 1 500. Then you should know that it is not that these municipalities do not spend any money on this. I think my own municipality of Danderyd is subsidising the music school with 14 million. It is quite a lot for a small municipality like Danderyd. Then we also let the parents pay a fee because we have the idea that it is better to have lower taxes in the municipality so that the parents themselves can prioritise what they spend their money on. It is therefore surprising that you are choosing to make this reform. The Swedish Arts Council, S mok, has conducted an investigation into the country's cultural and music schools. They're doing well. There are more who are participating. Municipalities increase their supply and resources. Therefore, it is even stranger that you choose to spend SEK 100 million on reduced fees.
i-fe40044cf8417237-121	Madam President, I would like Once again, I am delighted with this commitment. What Member of Parliament Hökmark describes, that there are municipalities in the country where it is socio-economically better off than in other municipalities and that it is also possible for them to apply for this support, is one of the challenges. It looks very different. But so important is culture school, and so important is our policy when it comes to making culture accessible to more people. More culture for more is our banner. It's going well in many parts of the cultural school, but we don't know how well it's going. If there is something that S mok has drawn attention to politics and previous governments on several occasions, it is precisely that S mok does not have the resources. You don't have the power to investigate and find out more. What else can we do? What about the outside world? What opportunities should we offer our children and young people, and how should we stimulate this in the best way? There are also very many well-known – world famous – Swedish artists who stress the importance of the cultural school and feel eager for us to develop this fantastic concept, which unfortunately not all of the world's children and young people have the opportunity to take part in. We choose to prioritise SEK 100 million as part of our budget already now – a budget that is historically large in terms of how much we increase the cultural budget. There is a total of SEK 359 million more to the culture in 2016 than in previous years. What we are doing now is a first step. The next step will be the outcome of the investigation. Let's take one step at a time. The inquiry will be submitted, as the Member of Parliament says, on 30 September 2016. Then we look at how one can contribute to a more equal and equal cultural school in terms of supply throughout the country. The study will also make suggestions on how to secure the supply of teachers. These are crucial steps we need to take. It is not enough that the cultural school has worked well. It is not enough that there are well-known, well-known and world-renowned artists who stress the importance of the cultural school because they are the exceptions that show that the cultural school is not equal. It should not matter to a child where you grow up or how rich parents you have if you are to be able to assimilate the culture or not.
i-fe40044cf8417237-128	Madam President, I would like I do not think that I have received a concrete answer from the Government to why taxpayers should pay SEK 100 million for an effort that you do not know whether it is good or not before the investigation is completed. After all, in those municipalities that have zero or low fees, these 100 million reduced fees will make no difference. They will make no difference in any municipality. Reduced fees do not give a single crown to teachers who are often lacking, a single crown to premises, a single crown to musical instruments, or a single crown to an hour more of music school education. It is incomprehensible to opt for a reduction in charges. It ensures no more money for music schools and makes no difference. Wouldn't it be better to investigate first and then decide? What will the Government do if the investigation shows that there are better ways to spend taxpayers' money? Will the Minister for Culture then propose to withdraw the money from the municipalities in the same way that the government now changes its mind and does the opposite on many other issues?
i-fe40044cf8417237-131	Madam President, I would like That we choose to prioritise culture in our budget, that the government invests historical SEK 359 more on culture 2016 than in previous years, we do that because culture is important. We do this so that children's and young people's opportunities for culture are not determined by where in the country you live or how much money your parents have in your wallet. The concrete answer to why we now choose to invest 100 of these 359 million in cultural schools is that the fee is one of the obstacles identified by the actors concerned. The fee, together with what the honourable Member points out, the supply of teachers and the supply, are the three main obstacles that we have already identified. We believe, however, that there is more to be identified. Therefore, we are now the first government that also chooses to make a major effort and a major investigation of the cultural school. We have appointed Professor Monica Lindgren to hold this investigation. It will be presented in September next year. Then we have already come a few steps along the way. Sweden is a relatively small country, but we cannot afford to lose sight of giving all children and young people the opportunity to develop and to try their creation. Several studies show that it is good for children and young people to try it and see: Can this be something for me? How Can I Develop? What can I be? The cultural school is a fantastic establishment. In many municipalities, culture school is a priority activity, but many municipalities also say: We know more. We want to do more. This is what the government is working on a policy for, and I will do everything I can, preferably in cooperation with Isabella Hökmark, to ensure that the cultural school is what all children and young people need.
