i-94b3b97e4e02f441-6	Madam President, I would like Mats Green has asked a number of questions, most of which relate to the reception of unaccompanied minors. Sweden takes a great responsibility for people on the run. Many of those who apply to Sweden are unaccompanied children. By mid - October, there had been over 17,000 unaccompanied children. Over the past three months, there have been between 700 and over 2,000 children per week. It's an extraordinary situation. I would like to begin by explaining how the government is dealing with and facilitating the challenges that responsible municipalities face. In the 2016 budget bill, the Government reports a total of approximately SEK 2 billion in 2016 for better reception and faster establishment. Among other things, flat-rate payments to municipalities for the reception of new arrivals are increased by about 50 per cent. This allowance is also payable for unaccompanied minors. Furthermore, the flat-rate allowance for asylum seekers increases the schooling rate of children, also by 50%. The government will also introduce differentiated flat rates for state compensation for the reception of unaccompanied minors. The aim is to simplify the regulatory framework, reduce the administrative burden for both municipalities and the Migration Agency and increase cost efficiency. On 8 October, the Government decided on a legislative referral to introduce a new form of investment, so-called assisted housing, as a complement to existing forms of investment, homes for care or housing and family homes. With the new form of investment, municipalities can more easily find cost-effective investments that suit the individual. In particular, it will increase the flexibility in the reception of municipalities. The Government has entrusted the relevant authorities with the purpose of facilitating the reception of municipalities. The National Board of Health and Welfare has been tasked with reviewing regulations for homes for care or housing, HVB. The Health and Care Inspection, Ivo, has a government mission to strengthen its capacity with authorisation testing for HVB and the upcoming investment form of support housing. The Government has also tasked the Government's institutional board with investigating the prerequisites for the agency to set up and provide at least 1,000 places in assisted housing and HVB for children and young people aged 16 to 20. Finally, the government has announced in the budget bill that it will come back with proposals to create a coherent system that creates the conditions for an effective asylum and return process, promotes the rapid establishment of those who have been granted a residence permit and helps to give municipalities and county councils good planning conditions, so that a long-term approach to reception can be promoted. This also includes reviewing the state's instruments, as well as the compensation system to municipalities and county councils for the reception of asylum seekers.
i-94b3b97e4e02f441-12	Madam President, I would like The issue that we are now going to discuss and the refugee situation as a whole is burningly topical, to put it mildly, not only in the public public debate but also in newscasts, parliamentary debates and council debates, but also around coffee tables across the country, wherever you come. Sweden, as Morgan Johansson said, takes a very large responsibility for people on the run, and we shall continue to do so. In particular, it concerns the subject matter of this interpellation, the reception of unaccompanied refugee children and the non-existent conditions given to them by the State. In my constituency Jönköping County, all municipalities have signed an agreement to receive unaccompanied minors. One of these is the municipality of Gnosjö, which I recently visited for information and discussion on this particular issue. The picture given is clear and, I would say, in common with the other municipalities in the county and throughout the country. Mr Gnosjö and many other municipalities, Madam President, are in a completely hopeless and unsustainable situation, with a host of challenges, both management and economic. Commonly, however, in almost all examples, it is the state that falls into its support and into the conditions that it provides responsible municipalities, when, on the contrary, it is common for a successful reception that this requires committed, responsible and innovative municipal employees and politicians. I do not know how many talks I have had, Madam President, with frustrated and abandoned ones, which, despite seemingly impossible conditions, make it work. That kind of commitment can be seen never to be commanded. The municipalities struggle with everything from difficulties in recruiting good men, the Migration Agency's non-existent foresight in terms of location, number and handover of unaccompanied minors to the municipality in question, its long investigation periods, complicated and unclear remuneration and recovery rules to perhaps the biggest challenge in terms of both management and economic, i.e. housing and housing, which the Minister also touched upon. I can also mention the challenge for schools. All of this involves individual and combined large municipal additional costs, which of course have consequences for other activities. I may well say, Madam President, that it is remarkable that only a few months ago, when he visited Jönköping County, the Prime Minister answered the question of what he felt needed to be done to address the increasingly pressing societal challenge: now the municipalities must begin to assume their responsibilities. Then I want to say that the municipalities are the very ones who assume their responsibilities – now the state has to do its part. Morgan Johansson classified the situation as untenable yesterday. If I am to be a little critical, I think that a somewhat paralysed government must now ensure that the untenable is not flawed. But enough about that. Now we're where we are. I have asked a number of specific questions, but I realise that I will have to come back to this, because negotiations on the emergency management are now under way. I will also come back with a discussion on the long-term prospects of municipalities and state support, because even if the influx of unaccompanied minors were to end at the turn of the year, which of course it will not do, the challenges will be huge, and we need to find a high quality, sustainable and realistic way to deal with this in second place.
i-94b3b97e4e02f441-20	Madam President, I would like Mats Green said he would come back in the next speech. Then I think that Mats Green should also come back to what he wants to do to clarify the situation. There is no point in us pointing fingers at each other, neither the municipalities in relation to the Finnish Immigration Service or the Finnish Immigration Service in relation to the municipalities. The important thing here is to cooperate. I am also travelling a lot in the municipalities. I was in Trelleborg on Monday. It is the municipality that I would say takes the greatest responsibility of all the municipalities of the country for the unaccompanied children. There are over 700 beds for unaccompanied children. Why do you have so many? There are so many now every day at the port of Trelleborg, a couple of three hundred a day and sometimes considerably more than that. Malmö is also a municipality that takes enormous responsibility for this. Malmö I visit on Monday. So there are a lot of people coming. But it is also the case that our systems are not adapted for as many people as they are now, which means that we have bottlenecks in different ways. The Finnish Immigration Service does not have time to register them all, and they must first be registered. After that, a decision can be made on an instruction, and then the municipality to which the persons are assigned must come and pick them up. It is this huge logistical challenge that we are in the midst of. There is no benefit in that we are just trying to push this issue between us, but here it is a question of cooperation between municipalities and states. In both Trelleborg and Malmö I am met with the attitude that this is what you want to do, and when I talk to the Migration Agency I also meet with that attitude. What can we do on the part of the government? Mats Green criticises us for not doing anything. However, in the budget that we have recently presented, firstly, as I said in my interpellation response, we are raising the level of compensation by 50% for newly arrived refugees who come to the municipalities. We also raise the levels of compensation – also by 50% – for asylum seekers children's schooling. It's a big bet we're making. Secondly, we are making a proposal in which we are talking about assisted housing instead of HVB homes. That is something that should have been done a long time ago. It is not justified to have a solution in which all unaccompanied minors must be placed in such accommodation. Some children have such problems that they need care and treatment in an HVB home. But many of them do not have such a problem; they need less supervision. Then we must have this flexibility in the system. We will have to do more in this strained situation. Everyone's gonna have to do more. The municipalities, the state, the government and the opposition will have to do more. It is therefore very important that we create a climate of dialogue that enables us to meet the broad cross-block agreements that Mats Green touches upon. Now we have spent almost a week in such conversations, and they are going on very intensively right now. But the government's position is that we should try to resolve this together and not in confrontation with each other.
i-94b3b97e4e02f441-28	Madam President, I would like I agree with much of what the Government said. I felt that I would have to come back to more interpellation debates on precisely the specific questions I asked because there are currently negotiations on the issues we are discussing. Since I wrote this interpellation almost a month ago, a lot has happened. It can be said that the situation has worsened further. However, for a week now, negotiations have been taking place between the government and the opposition on how to jointly find solutions for the whole situation in general, but of course regarding the situation of municipalities in particular. That is also what has been the beginning of my party in this regard. Now proposals are under way in the area of assisted housing, which I think is very good. This was presented by the previous government, and the current government has carried it out. I think that's good, too. The idea of the interpellation debate today was a little bit that when we do not have this emergency situation later, there will be a situation of two. I met representatives of the Swedish Municipalities and County Council this week who said that they are now focused only on the emergency situation. That is how it should be, of course. I also realise that the Migration Agency has enormous challenges, and I do not want to ignore these challenges in any way. But the biggest challenges lie in responsible municipalities around the country. When the situation is no longer so acute, we need a discussion on situation two. Then there will still be challenges, and I think it is important to ensure long-term, stable and high-quality solutions for municipalities. That is where we can see that there is a legitimate concern. I have a fairly long history as a municipal politician and as municipal commissioner for ten years in Jönköping. I also know that all governments, regardless of colour, sometimes tend to forget about the long-term challenges that municipalities face. I therefore think that we must have such a debate too. Now we have an emergency situation. But then comes a situation of two which also poses enormous challenges. We need to find a long-term way to deal with them.
i-94b3b97e4e02f441-33	Madam President, I would like We come forward with proposals on assisted housing. As early as 1 January, we want this legislation in place. At the same time, we are commissioning the State Department Board to have 1 000 seats in place so that this can be started. Then it will certainly be completed by the market also functioning and that more places will be found to be traded over the next six months. But it is good to have a number of places under government control to begin with. As I said, we are raising the compensation levels from 1 January. There is a 50% increase in the compensation both for children's education and for new arrivals, which is also a big boost. I think we will have to do more to support the municipalities. This is one of the issues that we are discussing in our deliberations and which I believe we will be able to reach a conclusion with shortly. It is important to obtain even more improved support for municipalities in the near future. This is in principle the way Mats Green says, namely that there is obviously a situation two. What is to be done in addition to this in the future when it comes to establishment? I think it's largely about schooling. We are increasing compensation and aid. But it must also take practical forms. This means that, in the coming years, we will have to build a whole series of new schools, and we will have open old schools that may have been closed down because of relocation and other things, as a result of the huge influx of students. You can see it as a problem that we build schools. But for a municipal politician it must be one of the funniest things there is to cut a band and open a new school. So I also think that one should see it, i.e. that this is part of a community building of Sweden. We will also have to build a huge number of new homes. The 250 000 homes that the government has said will be added by 2020 is a minimum. We'll build more than that. We have put forward proposals for the largest housing policy initiative in over ten years on the table of the Riksdag. It covers a total of SEK 6 billion. I am not saying that, with the efforts we make, we solve all the problems, especially when we see that the influx is so great. But I say that this is the way to proceed, i.e. to gradually invest and expand the social structure as we become more in Sweden. That is the government's entry into this. However, in order to do this in the long term, I think it is important to also create political stability and a strong parliamentary basis to stand on. That is why we are now conducting these talks with the opposition. And I think we will be going to the finish of these negotiations shortly.
i-94b3b97e4e02f441-41	Madam President, I would like We will, of course, have to wait and see to it that there are sharp proposals on the table. It is difficult to have a debate here before we have these sharp proposals. I'm looking forward to it. I will continue to travel around as much as I can in my county and talk to elected and municipal employees in social services, school administration and so on to see what concrete challenges one has and where one sees that the state, so to speak, does not deliver. I would also like to say that the school challenge will not be small. It is certainly fun that you as a municipal politician have to build and open schools. But we should also remember that it must also be filled with qualitative content. There, municipalities face quite major challenges. I do not want in any way to ignore the huge challenges that the municipalities are facing. Challenges may be a worn - out word, and these days you can actually use the word crisis to mean it. I will continue to monitor these issues. With regard to the last thing the Minister said, there is every reason to be very concerned, in other words, about housing, especially when you look at the passive government. Yesterday I had a discussion here with Minister of Housing Mehmet Kaplan. I asked the question then why this government spends more time making it more difficult to rent housing than to build housing in Sweden. I can see that what the Minister says is not at all true. Again: One must at some point start presenting proposals for how it can be easier and cheaper to build in Sweden. We are now talking about subsidies for businesses. No one believes that. It takes other things. I am not convinced that, given the history of the Environmental Party in municipalities, county councils and parliament to oppose all forms of simpler rules for housing construction, an environmental party is most appropriate to ensure that more is built in Sweden.
i-94b3b97e4e02f441-47	Madam President, I would like In my first speech, I asked Mats Green if he had any suggestions as to what we should do. I have to say that I did not hear any suggestions in any of his speeches as to what we should do, but it was a criticism of what we are doing now. It can't work that way if you're going to have a dialogue. Then the question must be asked: If you are critical of what we are doing, what do you think we should do instead? There is a broad dialogue with the various parties, and I believe, as I said, that there is an opportunity to reach agreement and even to come up with concrete proposals. But I found nothing of that character in Mats Green's post. I think that there are at least two major issues to focus on with regard to unaccompanied minors. One is the school and, linked to it, the teacher recruitment. Even if we go in with a lot of money to the local government sector and make this possible, we will have problems with the number of teachers. Then we are prepared to increase teacher training but also to raise the status of the teaching profession by means of money that finances an increase in teachers' salaries in general. A great effort is also made in the budget. Then it should be remembered that of those who have come to Sweden in recent years is a large group of teachers. We have 1 400 in the commission, which has been granted a residence permit and is a teacher. For us it is about putting them on the school bench and making sure that they learn Swedish so that they can then continue in their profession in Sweden. There is also a resource, and I think you should remember that. Housing construction is on the increase. The first half of this year, housing construction increased by 30 per cent compared to the first half of last year, and these are primarily rental apartments. When we go in with additional money, it will increase further. I'm sure of it.
i-94b3b97e4e02f441-52	Madam President, I would like Lotta Finstorp has asked me what my plans are for dealing with the problem of land access in the construction of bicycle trails and whether I intend to make any changes to the Construction Act. In June, the Minister for Infrastructure replied to an interpellation with similar questions. She then described the government's work to promote cycling in the country in various ways. The work takes place mainly within the framework of the national cycle strategy that is being developed and which will later be presented to the Riksdag. I agree with Lotta Finstorp that it is important that bicycle trails can be built in an efficient and efficient way. However, it is not clear that the problems of ground access should be solved by changes to the Construction Act. The Construction Act contains rules on collaboration between a number of properties with common needs and has recently been reviewed on several points. Cooperation and voluntary arrangements with affected landowners are the basic approach to land access for different purposes. This also applies to bicycle trails. Ultimately, there may be an opportunity to use land through expropriation to meet a general need for transport, transport or other communication. Even the possibility of expropriation usually has the effect of making voluntary arrangements. I would like to conclude by referring again to the national cycling strategy. Exactly what changes to existing legislation may need to be made are analysed in the context of the strategy.
i-94b3b97e4e02f441-57	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. This question may seem a little marginal the day after the terrible act in Trollhättan. But when you are out in the country visiting municipalities and regions, this issue often comes up because bicycle trails also have bearings on tourism and thus revenue, especially for rural areas. Bicycle issues are high on the agenda in both municipalities and regions, but also nationally. I believe that almost every municipality and even region has bicycle strategies today in order to connect their regions with the cycle. It is about both public health and the environment, but also, as I said, tourism. I see the cycle as a hugely important complement to public transport. Then one must be able to travel easily on bike paths that are not too long, because then people will not be cycling. Then you will instead use the car or, hopefully, choose public transport instead of the car. But there's a bug in the system. It is about the construction law and that it is very difficult with land access, because an individual landowner can say: No, on my land should not part of a cycle path be. It has happened in several parts of the country that they have had to drag these bicycle trails much longer and that it has become more expensive because they have not arrived on land because landowners said no. This is, of course, a balancing act. Ownership is very strong in Sweden, and I want to protect it absolutely. But as it is today, one can build a road in a much simpler way, because then one can point with the whole hand and say that here the road should go, although it can take quite a long time before the road comes about. But when it comes to cycling trails, that's not possible. The Alliance government focused on bicycle traffic measures in the county plans as late as 2014. The measures represent approximately 3.4 billion – at least 10 per cent of the county transport plans. This was precisely in order to be able to invest in walking and cycling and connect municipalities and labour markets via bicycle and bicycle routes. It is entirely in line with trying to remedy the deficiencies in bicycle traffic that the Alliance Government did. There I have experienced that we have had a common understanding. In addition, a cycling strategy is now emerging. If we are now going to review this issue in the cycle strategy too, which I hope will be the case, I wonder when it is expected to be completed. That is one of the questions I have for the Minister. The current government has announced an investment in urban development agreements that co-finance local and regional public transport projects, but there is no intention of reviewing the problems arising from the construction of new bicycle routes. After all, it does little for any government to have high plans and many invested crowns as long as the problems that limit the construction of the bicycle trails are not solved. The Alliance government did not come forward on this issue. Instead, my hope is that the cycle strategy will now bring relief in this. I would like the Minister to develop this further. There are a number of good examples of cycling trails that have been inaugurated in Sweden. The Kattegat trail, which is 37 km long, is one such route. But it has taken many years to build and does not have the route originally planned, as ground access put obstacles in the way.
i-94b3b97e4e02f441-67	Madam President, I would like The question I have to deal with is whether this should be included in the Construction Act, which is the legislation for which I am responsible. The Property Act mainly deals with relationships between property owners. It has never been used to also handle relations between, for example, the state and the municipality and property owners. When the question has been tried, discussed and investigated, previous governments have rejected it, as Lotta Finstorp points out. When the previous government dealt with this issue, it did not want to proceed with the investigation proposal. It had been criticised by LRF, Fastighetsägarearna and Villaägarens Riksförbund, among others, who thought that they went too far when it came to restricting property rights. I am, of course, very keen that we should be able to move forward in terms of roads and bicycle routes. We have an opportunity to look into this through an ordinary expropriation. In that case, you have to use the legal room that already exists. Expropriation of property does not necessarily mean taking over the entire ownership of the property, but it can be limited to the landowner simply having to tolerate the use of part of his property for example for a bicycle trail. Then the landowner shall be compensated for the limitation of the property. My assessment is that if we want to clarify these issues and be able to draw these lines, it should of course be done primarily on a voluntary basis with voluntary agreements. In most cases, you can do it. But if you can't do it, you have to be prepared to take expropriation measures. We will see what the development of the cycling strategy will lead to. I don't know, because it's not my department that prepares it. But both this government and the previous government have said that the Property Act should be used to regulate relationships between property owners.
i-94b3b97e4e02f441-74	Madam President, I would like As the Minister mentioned, there was an investigation just over ten years ago. I think it was in 2002 that Lantmäteriet made the report Review of the Construction Act. That's how this came up. The review was a referral, and some were critical of it, including the LRF. The review contains justification and complete proposals for constitutional texts and all amendments to the Construction Act with the meaning that municipalities and possibly the Finnish Transport Agency will have access to individual land or roads when this is required for the construction of coherent bicycle routes. 2002 is a long time ago. Bicycles as a means of transport and as part of the tourism industry have become much more common. Now we are trying to catch up with Denmark and Holland, where for many years they have taken a bike between home and work if you work close enough. It also provides large revenues to the tourism industry. There are good examples in Sweden, but, as I said, it has taken a number of years to move forward with it. For example, we have Sydostleden and Fyr to lighthouse on Öland. In Östergötland, the organizers of Vätternrundan are very active in getting to bike trails, because they see revenue opportunities. One aspect is that it is good for public health, the environment and climate. In addition, there is an upside-down economic for landowners. For example, they can have bed and breakfasts, and cyclists can stop by smaller hotels to sleep over and then cycle on. This is very common in the rest of Europe. It is 13 years since the review was carried out, and a lot has happened since then. When the review was reviewed, there were, as the Minister said, consultative bodies which were critical of the conclusions and proposals contained in the review. Among others, the LRF was negative, but 13 years later it is perhaps precisely the LRF members who are able to get good revenue if the plant law was redesigned or if in some other way it was made easier. Many landowners in the country would like to have a trail drawn with them, but the neighbor may not want it on his land. It would also be easier to get between different farms connected to Bo on a farm. It is happening very positively, but many people are hard-pressed with bureaucracy and perhaps with a neighbour who does not even want a few meters on his land, and then it is not possible to build it. That is why, among other things, I have mentioned this. There was a bicycle investigation in 2012, I think. Investigator Kent Johansson also mentioned that simplifications could be made in the Construction Act in order to make it easier to move forward. A cycle path for people who are on vacation or get between work or school and housing should not be disturbing but positive. I wonder why a bill is missing. I hope that the Minister will send the responsible Minister to look at this as well. It is happening very positively in the country, and we need to move forward on this issue.
i-94b3b97e4e02f441-86	Madam President, I would like As Lotta Finstorp says, there is an old investigation from Lantmäteriet with a review of the Plant Act. It received strong criticism from some quarters. It was believed that these possibilities already existed. Since the Construction Act is primarily intended to regulate relationships between property owners, it seems wrong to include this possibility in that legislation. At the same time, it is important that we move forward. First of all, it is on a voluntary basis, but second, there is the coercive measure of expropriation. A cycle path is a public good. If many landowners agree to it but someone is against it, the responsibility of persuading them should not rest on the neighbors. Responsibility must rest with the state and the municipality, and the state and the municipality now have the opportunities provided by the legislation on expropriation. Lotta Finstorp says that LRF members can get revenue from this. This is true, because if expropriation legislation is applied, the new rules require society to replace the landowner with estimated market value reduction plus 25%. We not only replace what the landowner misses out on, but we even add a penny. My view is that there must, of course, be legal opportunities to move forward. These legal possibilities already exist. Let me ask Lotta Finstorp a question: we already have the legislation on expropriation, why does she not want to use it? I do not know why it has not been used in the current cases with the Kattegat route. I haven't looked at that. I believe that the coercive measures that already exist should be used primarily instead of making new laws.
i-94b3b97e4e02f441-95	Madam President, I would like According to the information I have received from those who are active on these different bicycle routes, it has been very difficult to make progress on the basis of the legislation. It has taken a long time because it is being appealed and difficult to deal with. They join forces in economic associations in order to connect the joints. It's bike enthusiasts who don't want anything more than that this should work well. It has cost a lot of money to move forward, because there have been problems with some landowners. Cycling tourism in Europe has a turnover of 50 to 100 billion. That's a staggering amount of money. It would be fantastic if we in Sweden could get it the same way. It would give landowners, such as farmers, in our beautiful country another bone to stand on if they could connect with, for example, bed and breakfast. I and those who are doing this believe that there is a lack of a legal framework that increases the accessibility of these leaders. The constant lifting up of this issue by the active people shows that they have encountered difficult problems when trying to move forward. I hope, and send with the Minister, that this issue will be included in the cycle strategy. Being able to connect bike paths in networks in our regions would be good in many ways. This would complement public transport. Five kilometres is reasonable to ride to and from work and school. Then it needs to be easier to get there. If the cycle path becomes too long in relation to the usual route, people will not use it.
i-94b3b97e4e02f441-101	Madam President, I would like We have no differences of opinion about the importance of bicycle traffic. It is a matter of course that it should be developed, and therefore the government has started work on the cycle strategy. It is sometimes about which technology to use to move forward. We already have an expropriation legislation. Lotta Finstorp says that it takes a long time to implement and is complicated, but if we are to solve it through a new team to be prepared, it will take even longer. In the current situation, the state and the municipality must be prepared to make use of the legislation on expropriation. I think that's the effective system. It is much more effective than creating new laws to solve a problem that can already be solved with another legislation. Then you see what you find in the Ministry of Industry in the work on bike strategy n. If so, it is a later question. Use existing legislation. That's my signal to those who plan the cycle paths. That has not been resolved so far.
i-94b3b97e4e02f441-105	Madam President, I would like Maria Stockhaus has asked the Minister for Education if the Minister and the Government are prepared to move from words to action and secure Teach for Sweden's funding for at least three years. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The initiative at Teach for Sweden is an effort to increase the recruitment of teachers, especially in certain subjects where access to qualified teachers is insufficient, but also an effort to increase school results. There is a great deal of agreement today that we are facing a major shortage of teachers. In its forecast, the Swedish National Agency for Education estimates that the number of teachers being examined until 2019 needs to almost double the current levels in order to meet the needs of the school system. The Government has therefore, among other things, made several proposals in the 2016 budget proposal for urgent measures to increase the number of graduates. The proposals cover both funding for more places in education leading to a teacher's or pre-school teacher's degree and several actions to raise the attractiveness of the teaching profession, thereby attracting more people to work in the school system. One of the most important measures to increase the attractiveness of the teaching profession is the very extensive teacher's salary boost of SEK 3 billion on an annual basis that the Government intends to implement. To meet the shortage of teachers, we also need more ways into the teaching profession. Today, several important experimental activities are being carried out with special additional educational training. The work of Teach for Sweden together with Karlstad University and Halmstad University is one such activity. The Government welcomes these experiments and has therefore proposed in the 2016 budget proposal that additional funds be added to them during the years 2016– 2018. The Government monitors the development of ongoing experimental activities and intends to evaluate them. I am pleased to hear that we agree that it is important that the activity that Teach for Sweden conducts can continue but also about the importance of its evaluation.
i-94b3b97e4e02f441-110	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister very much for his answer. It is gratifying to hear that the government shares Moderates' positive view of the initiative to start Teach for Sweden in Sweden. The experiences seen in other countries, not least England and the United States, are encouraging. The best students become teachers in the toughest areas. Teach for Sweden also ensures that students receive mentors from industry and leadership education. This makes them good role models out in the schools that have the toughest conditions. There has been an evaluation of Teach for Sweden, which also bodes well. Students as well as schools who have accepted are very happy. The only thing that sparkles is cooperation with universities and higher education institutions and the quality of education there. I have the impression that the more established Teach for Sweden becomes, the more this cooperation will develop positively. Teach for Sweden has clear ambitions to bring in more sponsors to finance its operations, just as in other countries where Teach for is located. However, state aid will be needed to avoid worrying about funding over the next few years and to maintain quality and also increase the number of candidates. It will not be very difficult because they have a lot of people looking for it, and the rumor of Teach for Sweden's success is spreading. The Government says in its response that money is available in 2016 – 2018. Both me and Teach for Sweden are curious about how much money is involved.
i-94b3b97e4e02f441-115	Madam President, I would like This is one of several measures that we are now taking. I believe that there is a fairly broad consensus in the Riksdag that we need to have more ways into the teaching profession while continuing to strengthen the quality of teacher training and working to make the teaching profession more attractive and in this way can increase the search pressure to teacher training. As for the money that has been set aside, the total amount for all types of supplementary education is 18 million for 2016, the same for 2017 and 14 million for 2018. It is also for the rest of the KPU, i.e. supplementary educational training, that we are now investing in, and we are investing in another 500 beginners' places. I would also like to say that, just today, we have sent out a proposal for a supplementary education programme for researchers. It is also aimed at the flaws. In one year you should be able to read your KPU with a study grant of 25 000 SEK onor per month. This is another of the measures we are taking. Although we are satisfied with Teach for Sweden and we see that the experimental activities can continue, it is important that we work at Bre d front. The possibility of bringing in researchers also allows us to recruit more lecturers to the school. That is something that I think everyone thinks is desirable. Against this background, I hope that we can continue to work to both strengthen the quality of teacher education and make the teaching profession more attractive so that more people apply for teacher education. We also need to work to find more ways into the teaching profession.
i-94b3b97e4e02f441-120	Madam President, I would like Teach for Sweden does not see this as a trial for itself. They see it as a long-term venture. They also have strong support from the Teach for organization that exists in a large number of countries around Sweden. What is unique about the education is that they get to start working at once in schools. They also receive training in leadership and mentoring from the business community. This makes them better able to become strong leaders and good role models, not least for students in these areas. The Government now says that it is 18 million and 14 million in total. In addition, it will finance 500 seats on other KPUs. It does not seem that Teac h for Sweden can feel at ease with the fact that there is a large amount of state funds set aside for operations to continue. It is unfortunate when there is an established concept that has been evaluated in many other countries and which is known to work. It has got a very good start in Sweden. It also cooperates with the business community, which is an important aspect of Teach for Sweden. The fact that it is not clear with and ensures that there is good funding for the operation is regrettable.
i-94b3b97e4e02f441-123	Madam President, I would like I think I was unclear there. The 500 seats on the other KPU are in addition to this. This is precisely for Teach for Sweden and other experimental activities that are ongoing at the University of Gothenburg. Of this money, the largest part, about 10 million SEK onor, goes to the project Teach for Sweden. As you say, you also have external funding from several private companies. We see this as positive. But that is not the only thing needed to remedy the great lack of teachers we have. It is therefore important for me to point out that we are also investing a great deal of money in assessing and validating foreign degrees, including teaching degrees. We will also, within the framework of this, carry out additional education so that the people who now come to Sweden or have been in Sweden for a long time and have a foreign teacher's degree can get it assessed, validated and supplemented to the extent necessary. By doing more things in this way at the same time, we can meet the great need we have for new teachers in the Swedish school.
i-94b3b97e4e02f441-127	Madam President, I would like Then I immediately became a little calmer. It is also about the need for efforts to get more pathways into the teaching profession and to be able to validate foreign teacher degrees in order to get in not least bilingual teachers in this way, which would be a huge asset in our school to meet the amount of newly arrived students that we now see entering our schools. Now the interpellation concerns precisely Teach for Sweden, and I am happy to hear that it is 10 million per year allocated to their operations. I believe that it would reassure them and provide greater stability and opportunity for them to develop their activities. I think it is a welcome addition in view of the lack of teachers that we have in Sweden.
i-94b3b97e4e02f441-129	Madam President, I would like I thank Maria Stockhaus for an urgent debate and discussion on something on which we still agree relatively: we really need to do everything now to bring more teachers to the Swedish school and to ensure that they are competent and equipped for the work to be done and to contribute to better school outcomes. It is also a question of being able to meet the large group of students who are now coming, not least in connection with the refugee crisis. I think it's important that we can do a lot of things at the same time. Teach for Sweden is an excellent project that, as far as we can see, has good results. But there is more to do, and the government will regularly come back with proposals on how we can both strengthen teacher education and get more places and more applicants there and how we can get more ways into the teaching profession.
i-94b3b97e4e02f441-131	Mrs. Old President! Maria Stockhaus has asked me why I and the government do not want to make second language learning compulsory in teacher training and whether I and the government are prepared to make special pedagogy compulsory in teacher training. Since 2011, there have been four new teacher's and supervisor's degrees. Appendix 2 of the Higher Education Ordinance sets out the requirements that must be met in order for a student to be able to obtain a degree. The precise requirements that each higher education institution itself decides within the requirements of the respective degree description must also be fulfilled in order for the student to be able to obtain the degree. Common to all teacher and pre-schooler degrees is that the degree descriptions state that in order to obtain the degree the student must demonstrate the knowledge and skills required to work independently as a teacher or pre-school teacher in the activity to which the education relates. The curricula for primary and secondary schools emphasise the language development perspective. In addition, the curriculum states that it is the task of each teacher to organise and carry out the work so that the student is supported in his or her language and communication development. The teaching should contribute to the students' language development is also reflected in different course and subject plans. Similarly, curricula indicate that everyone working in school should pay attention and support to pupils in need of special support. To further emphasise the importance of the two areas highlighted in the interpellation, there are also specific objectives in the degree descriptions. All four degree descriptions include, for example, requirements for the student for the degree to demonstrate the ability to identify and in collaboration with others to handle special pedagogic needs. Teacher and pre-school teacher education is currently available at 28 higher education institutions. It is safe to find examples of higher education institutions and programmes where the above areas are more and less highlighted. However, against the background that I have just explained, the government sees no need for the state to more rigorously regulate the qualification descriptions for teacher and supervisor training in these areas. The path to better teacher education does not go through further detailed regulation, but by allowing universities to use their extensive skills and decide for themselves on the structure and content of the courses within the framework of the clear regulatory framework that exists.
i-94b3b97e4e02f441-136	Mrs. Old President! I would also like to thank the Council for its reply. Although I am quite new as a Member of Parliament, I spent my first year travelling around the country quite a lot and visiting many schools. One issue that often comes up is teacher training, and often specifically how unprepared many new graduates feel about the reality they face in the classroom. Unfortunately, this also applies to teachers who are out doing the VFU and who are taking the new teacher training. Although we now have a brand new teacher training with significantly improved quality thanks to the Alliance, there are still areas that need more evaluation and also improvement. It was a debate in this House earlier on the possibility of municipalities receiving newly arrived unaccompanied minors. An important part is that the school works and can receive the children. As I said, many municipalities face major challenges in ensuring the quality of teaching for all newcomers. We will see children with other mother tongues in principle in every classroom in Sweden in the future. One key for these students to succeed is that they learn Swedish. It's about a good start. A decision has now been taken on the compulsory identification of knowledge and other things, and that is a good start. They need intensive training in Swedish, but there also needs to be teachers with second language skills out at our schools. A teacher with such competence can, regardless of the subject, work in a language-developing way that supports immigrant students' development in Swedish in all subjects at school and not only when you have Swedish as a second language. The responsibility of the state – a responsibility which, unfortunately, previous governments before the alliance government have not taken seriously – is to train competent teachers who can meet the students the principals have in their schools. There are few university-level educations that have received so much criticism earlier than the teacher education. In Swedish schools there are many pupils with special educational needs and also a need for second language learning. If heads are to meet the challenges of the future and ensure an equal school where all pupils have a chance to succeed, the state must take a clearer responsibility to ensure that teachers leaving teacher education are loaded with the necessary skills. Many people criticise municipalities for not taking their responsibilities to ensure that teachers receive the training they should have. But what responsibility does the government take to ensure that teachers have the right skills with them from basic education? The teachers themselves want this change through the student unions and see the need for both special education and other language learning as mandatory elements in their education. Isn't the government prepared to listen to them? When we know that the number of new arrivals in our schools will increase, the need for competent teachers who can meet this group of students is important in both the short and long term. Second language learning should be part of both the educational science core and the didactic elements of different subjects. I have been in contact with experts at the National Centre for Swedish as a second language. They also recommend making second language learning compulsory in teacher training. The strange thing is that the Minister for Education has spoken hotly about the need for more specialised pedagogy. He has also announced a 中 boost on the issue. It is important for the teachers who work in our schools today. However, since we know that this competence is needed, I find it difficult to understand that the government does not want to make it compulsory in teachers' basic education.
i-94b3b97e4e02f441-146	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Maria Stockhaus. Few programmes have changed more often than teacher training, and few programmes – in fact none – are as detailed as the teacher training. As I said, this gives a limited scope to adapt, but there are opportunities for the higher education institutions and teachers to make adjustments that are being worked out in the collaboration mission they have, not least with the school heads. My conviction is that we need to strengthen this particular cooperation mission even more. A trial of training schools is now under way to ensure the quality of the training. A positive effect that we see from this is that the interfaces between activities, higher education institutions and teacher education are really increasing. In this way, you can meet the needs you see at school considerably earlier – already in teacher education. I fully share the view that we need to make it possible for people who now have a foreign teacher's degree, for example, to start working at school so that they can act as study supervisors while complementing their education or what is required to be able to work as a qualified teacher. I also see that we have a great need for more native speakers and teachers who have Swedish as a second language. It may also be very much the case that we need to develop the possibility of entering these subjects in the lower grades. As I said, many skills-enhancing initiatives are now being implemented through the Teacher Lift, and the government has made sure to extend them. Within the framework of the Teacher Lift, you can also supplement your teacher training with these particular subjects so that more people will have this qualification in the future. I think it is important to remind you that it is only this year that we actually see a larger group that has attended the new teacher training, and no overall evaluation has yet been carried out. Before we begin to regulate further detail in this already heavily regulated training, I would like us to conduct a national evaluation when we have the new quality assurance system in place.
i-94b3b97e4e02f441-152	Mrs. Old President! In general, I can say that I am not in favour of detailed management, and as a municipal politician I strongly advocated local self-government. I fundamentally believe that higher education should have autonomy. It is a freedom under responsibility, and I regret to say that there are still major shortcomings after the introduction of the new teacher training. I think it is irresponsible that we do not want to act more quickly but want to wait for evaluation systems and other things. The signals are extremely clear, in my opinion, when it comes to special education and second language learning. The OECD report from when they reviewed the Swedish school system indicates that the teacher education we have now and the teachers' skills in our schools are not up to date. Then it is remarkable that we are not trying to do anything about this right now. The teacher students are clear, the municipalities are clear and those who receive teacher students from the new and the old education are clear that there are major shortcomings in special pedagogy and other students' training. To keep patching up afterwards with different lifts costs an enormous amount of money. The signals I have received from teachers' students and the student associations of both teachers' unions are that this education can be loaded with more. The pace of teacher training is not very high. There are teachers who work full-time in parallel to studying full-time at teacher education. Given that we are training a group of people who are extremely important to the future of Swedish schools, it feels strange. That is why I believe that there is room for other language learning and special pedagogy to be included as compulsory elements. Then you will not have to repair this afterwards with expensive solutions such as teacher lift and other things.
i-94b3b97e4e02f441-155	Mrs. Old President! I think two things are important to establish. One is what Maria Stockhaus says about advocating autonomy. We really need a culture of trust. This applies to the profession at school, but it also applies to the profession at our colleges and universities. Then we need to have a continuous dialogue on how we meet the goals that are set to be met and how we meet the needs that exist. This should be done with the government, but it should also be done within the framework of the collaboration mission, including with these self-governing municipalities. If we are only to have detailed regulation or very strict controls at each stage, the risk is that this culture of trust and autonomy for higher education institutions will be eroded. I know that there are several higher education institutions with teacher training that are now working to fill the education with the content that Maria Stockhaus advocates. I think that is a good thing. I see no contradiction in the fact that this can be achieved without the state going in and regulating details. I also have a view that a lot of work is being done to strengthen the quality of the teacher education. I mentioned one of those things, and it is the trial of training schools that was initiated under the previous government. We are in favour of it, follow it and see that it has good results. We have also added to the budget quality efforts to get more teacher-led hours, which has become too few of them. One last and not least important thing is that we need to strengthen research links in teacher education and ensure that there are enough teachers who have research backgrounds themselves. This is something we will have to come back to in our work on the research bill. The fact that this is on a scientific basis is an important part of developing teacher education based on science and not always based on politics. Another part from which you should develop this is the collaboration mission that you should have with the school heads. Here we intend to come back with new proposals on how to strengthen collaboration in order to develop teacher education in this way to meet the needs that exist. The second point I want to make is that it is extremely important for teachers too that they can be further developed in their profession of supplementary education or further training. You are not finished and can work for 40 years without new knowledge or stimulation when you have attended the teacher training. I know it is difficult for many school leaders to free their teachers for further development and further training, but it is extremely important and also an important part of the teaching profession's attractiveness that you can grow, develop and train yourself. Therefore, I see the Teacher Lift and other such things as we do to strengthen teachers during their career as extremely well invested money.
i-94b3b97e4e02f441-162	Mrs. Old President! Autonomy is based on trust. It is precisely when it comes to teacher training that trust is quite upset. At least my trust is. If you talk to teachers about what they think about the quality of their education, it feels like there is still a lot to do. It is clear from the OECD report that they are also concerned about the teacher training available in Sweden. If we are to ensure that all students have equal opportunities, teachers must be loaded with the skills they need. We know that pupils with special educational needs and pupils with other native language will be present in all classrooms. This competence must be carried by teachers from their initial training. I fully agree that it is quite obvious that teachers need further training during their professional career and that it is remarkable that 50 per cent of Sweden's teachers do not think they have a responsibility to take on new research in terms of pedagogy and their subject. There is much in culture that needs to be changed when it comes to the view of teacher training. We also need to make many principals understand that this is important and, of course, we need government initiatives. I don't think that's where we disagree. Teachers need a good foundation to stand on, because they come from day one to have these students in the classroom. If they are to have the opportunity to give students the best conditions, they must have this competence with them from their basic education. They won't today. They are poorly equipped to deal with pupils with special educational needs, and they are poorly equipped to handle pupils with a mother tongue other than Swedish. In the end, this affects students, and it is they who have the worst results in Swedish schools today.
i-94b3b97e4e02f441-166	Mrs. Old President! I don't share the picture that you're so ill-equipped. As I said, there are colleges and teachers already today who provide training in this. The national degree goals that exist include having a language-developing way and working together with other teacher categories to provide students with the special support they need. This government has as its ultimate goal that we should work with early efforts. That is why we have also increased the number of places in special education and teacher training, for example. We will also come back, as I said at the beginning, when it comes to getting more native speakers, but also teachers who have Swedish as a second language, because we also see that the need is growing. Today, about 20% of pupils have a different native language, but the proportion will increase sharply. That's why we're going to need more teachers with this expertise. We may also need to further train the teachers we have in order to further meet the goals already stated in the degree descriptions. Finally, I would like to say that, as I said, there is no overall evaluation, but it is people's experiences and other things that I take note of, and we take this very seriously. Therefore, we also provide quality money and work on how to strengthen the quality of teacher education. But to now begin to go into detail and make changes to the teacher training that has only existed for a few years is to follow this, as I think, bad tradition of constantly making changes in teacher education. We need long-termism, we need trust and we really need to work to strengthen quality. These are the government's priorities.
i-94b3b97e4e02f441-170	Mrs. Old President! Erik Andersson has asked the Minister of Finance how she views the profits of state-owned companies. Erik Andersson asks if Akademiska Hus in a situation of acute housing shortage for students should be allowed to follow their mission and be allowed to reinvest their business profits in new housing. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Initially, I am pleased that I and Erik Andersson have a common interest in building more small, cheap and climate-smart rentals. This is an important issue for the government and one reason why it has been clarified that Akademiska Hus can, according to the assignment, build and own student housing. There is an established method of governing the state-owned companies, among other things to determine the companies' financial objectives, which has been clearly communicated to the Riksdag for several years. In 2011, the Ministry of Finance, which was then responsible for the management of the state-owned companies, developed a reinforced process to revise the economic objectives of the state-owned companies. This has led to a review of the economic objectives. The economic objectives of Akademiska Hus phase were completed in 2014, by the former bourgeois government. At that time, the capital structure target, the equity ratio, remained unchanged compared to the 2010 decision, i.e. between 30 and 40 per cent. In the last ten years, Akademiska Hus has, however, had a solidity above the target of between 46 and 48 per cent, with a few exceptions. It is mainly a consequence of the market valuation of properties, according to the regulatory framework we follow, IFRS, which was introduced ten years ago and which significantly increased the solvency. An excessive share of equity may entail an unnecessarily high cost of capital. In the long term, it can be negative for companies, owners and customers alike. For this reason, the former bourgeois government stated in 2014 that an adjustment of the capital structure would be necessary to achieve the objective. The extra dividend thus has a direct link to the market value of properties and not to rental levels. The dividend consists of funds borrowed by the State-owned company on the interest market to adjust its capital structure in the balance sheet. The rental levels themselves are independent of extra dividends. Rather, they are influenced by other factors. The rents in Akademiska Hus are set on a market-based basis, taking into account the low risk of renting out to government agencies. The university sector has grants fully adapted to market rents, including annual price adjustments. As I am sure Erik Andersson knows, there are no links in the state budget between dividends from the state companies and specific investments in different areas. Investments are handled in connection with the budget, and it is not – and has never been – associated with dividends from Akademiska Hus or other companies. The construction of student housing is a very important issue for the government. Therefore, the government has also clarified that Akademiska Hus, according to the assignment, has the full opportunity to also build and own student housing itself. An important part of the company's mission is long-term sustainable campus development, which also includes enabling new student housing. As a result, Akademiska Hus has further intensified its efforts to create the conditions for new student housing, both through external actors and in its own direction. Today, the company has over 10 000 student apartments in its planning for the next five to six years. The company's ability to invest in student housing will in no way change due to the extra dividend. After the dividend, the company will have a equity ratio of about 40 percent, i.e. in the very top part of the target range. This means a strong balance sheet even in the future with full capacity to invest in student housing in accordance with the assignment. The dividend has no impact on the company's commitment and operations towards universities and higher education institutions. The company will continue to develop the cooperation in accordance with the mandate. Akademiska Hus continues to have strong finances to carry out major annual investments for universities and higher education institutions.
i-94b3b97e4e02f441-183	Mrs. Old President! I would like to welcome you, Beatrice Ask, as President of today's sitting. I would like to thank the Government for its very long answer. Sometimes I think about what it would have been like if an alliance government, a bourgeois government, had made extra dividends from the state corporations. I believe that the whole Social Democratic movement – LO, the party and a lot of other branches here and there – would complain a great deal and accuse us of milking money. That would have been the case. In its reply, the Government refers to the objectives adopted by the bourgeois government. I understand that part of the business will of course be financed with equity and other things with loans, because it is cheap to borrow money today. So I fully understand that. But there are those who are concerned about the extra dividends that have been made. My question was, first and foremost, why do you not build student housing, because there is such a shortage of them. One could build even more and at the same time lend so that one comes down in solidity, to the goals referred to by the Government. The most important thing is what we do about the lack of student housing. The government, which is the owner of Akademiska Hus, has chosen to withdraw 6.5 billion from the company. A dividend of 1.45 billion has already been paid in the past. There's quite a lot of money going away. We also have dividends from SJ. This has nothing to do with this issue, but it first took out 230 million and then 1.7 billion. Dividends are increasing from approximately EUR 17 billion in 2014 to EUR 26 billion in 2016. There's a lot of money milked from the state companies. Of course I'm wondering. Okay, you've taken out 26 billion. But the important question is what to do with that money. What will the money be used for? What do you do with the money if you don't build student housing because there's a housing shortage? Do they end up in the big treasury of the state, to finance increased subsidies? That would be a stupid investment. The government is bragging about investing in college. We have also heard about the investments in smaller and climate-smart housing. But the fact is, I haven't seen either Kaplan's residences or Kaplan myself. Then I wonder what is going on in the matter. The Council of State believes that it is interested in building cheap apartments for young people. How is that supposed to be financed? I know there's been a plan. But what is a cheap rent, according to the Government? Finally, it is important to build student housing. If you as a youth are going to get a home today, you need to have a job, if you are going to borrow money to buy a dwelling. If you are to get a first-hand contract, you also need an income. That's why student housing is so good. Then students can live in them and do not need to have those safeguards behind them. Does the Minister know how many people are in line for a student residence here in Stockholm?
i-94b3b97e4e02f441-195	Mrs. Old President! I agree with my colleague Erik Andersson's problem with the red-green government's withdrawal of ownership from Akademiska Hus. It was done a number of times under the alliance government for other state companies. I know what the views of the opposition at that time were. When it comes to the housing situation for students, which I intend to problematize a little, we have a very serious situation in Sweden today. The word crisis can actually be used for the Swedish housing market, especially now and especially for students. I can only say that this is a problem for us in the civil committee dealing with housing policy. The inaction shown so far by the government in terms of student housing is the last thing we need now that the situation looks like it does. Morgan Johansson noted here earlier that we now have the highest housing building in several decades. Yes, it happens after the Alliance's reform journey. However, it is not good enough for the rest of the country; much more is needed. When you see the efforts of the Red-Green Government and Minister Kaplan for student housing, you have reason to be quite worried. Sometimes the debate suggests that there have been flexible noise rules. I would just like to remind you that it was pushed through by the alliance parties in the committee under resistance from the Green Party, so it is hardly the Green Party or the government that has been behind that very thing. Then we have also worked for simpler rules when it comes to densification and accessibility for student housing. Often you want to live inside the city centres. The government has also opposed or refused to return to the committee. Erik Andersson brings up Kaplan barracks. I would also like to see more clear and concrete proposals on what this is really about. Again, I think it is dangerous to just dismiss the lack of student housing by the need for more barracks and prefabricated solutions. Of course, no one thinks it is bad. It's part of the solution, but it can't fix everything. The latest proposed by the government is grants for companies to build rental housing. No one wants these contributions. The industry believes that it distorts competition, and this will only lead to the postponement of already planned projects. I would like to send to the Minister for Higher Education and Research to lie on his coalition collegues in the Green Party and his party colleagues in the government: begin to address the housing issue in general and especially the housing issue when it comes to students! Rather, what you have done so far has been counterproductive. I think that we have a right to expect more from the government, especially in view of the situation that we have to deal with in all the country's colleges. That's what I'd like to do to the minister.
i-94b3b97e4e02f441-203	Mrs. Old President! I thank both Erik Andersson and Mats Green for their contributions. I note that you both have rather hypothetical arguments about what it would have been like if the situation had been reversed. I have no comment to make on that. It is very possible that they have been as you describe it, but it would not have changed the facts of the matter. It would still be like this. There is an extra dividend based on the values on the properties being written up. The values have been in force in the Group for almost ten years. Now an adjustment is also made in the parent company and it allows for an extra dividend that has nothing to do with the profits, so it is also not a profit distribution. I very much hope that we agree that there should be no earmarking, no matter who is in government or in opposition. You can't earmark money in dividends from government companies. That does not allow the budgetary law that we have to comply with, regardless of the government. The dividend is used to finance the budget, and then the investments are set aside in connection with the budget proposal presented to Parliament. It shows the investments made and their financing, but the money is not earmarked for specific investments. It follows from the law that we all have to follow. As I said, we have put forward a budget which includes investment aid for new rentals and also for student housing. It applies to 2016. This year is a completely different budget. There are no such bets there. It is important to me that we ensure the availability of student housing. Therefore, I support the assignment given to Akademiska Hus, to build, own and manage student housing. As I said at the beginning, there are now plans for 10,000 new student housing in those places where there is a great shortage, Stockholm, Uppsala, Lund, Gothenburg, Umeå and Luleå – this is also to develop attractive campuses. You use the land you already own. Here in Stockholm, the County Administrative Board, the City of Stockholm and Akademiska Hus have also taken a joint initiative for something called Sthlm 6 000+. This is about student housing. This is also something that we fully support and which we hope will lead to an end to the student housing shortage that exists in the metropolitan area. The lack of student housing makes it very difficult for students from other parts of Sweden to study in Stockholm. It also reduces mobility and the possibility of applying for training on the basis of wishes. Rather, it will be the home supply that determines, and we will not have it. It is the students' own desire for which education they want to attend that should govern and not the availability of housing.
i-94b3b97e4e02f441-211	Mrs. Old President! It seems to me that the Government thinks we're speculating, but most likely that would have been the case. The whole of Left Sweden had raged over the fact that the bourgeois government milks the companies. But that's what you're doing today. I am sorry that you have only one minister of the future and have not appointed a minister of the past. Then I could have asked that person what it would have been like. Today SSB has 8 000 – you might think that it is telephone line to the student housing agency that amounts to 8 000 calls, but it is not – apartments for students in Stockholm. There are 55 000 people standing in line. The way I see it, and just as the Government mentioned, the availability of student housing should not determine whether you can attend an education or not; I fully agree with that. It is a risk for Sweden if there are many very smart students who do not get into an education. Then we can miss out on the new innovative idea that once formed the basis for Ericsson, Asea or anything. It is therefore a great risk that Sweden takes when the students cannot be offered anywhere to live in the place where they want to study. If the government wants to increase subsidies for the construction of housing, then the regulation should be reduced in order to achieve increased construction. Examples include the planning issue and the appeal process. It is a very important part that many would like to do something about. This is particularly true of the industry, but many municipalities also think it takes far too long. From the idea of starting to build, it can take up to ten years before the construction is completed. It is completely unreasonable that it should take so long. Then I have a question about value. The government said that the value of the parent company had been adjusted. Then I wonder: When was it done? Was it done recently in Akademiska Hus to make the distribution possible? When I ask what the money is to be used for, the Government says that it is not possible to earmark the money. But I asked Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson at a Question Time a week ago: What is the money to be used for? Then she replied that they would be used to amortise the public debt. Then I called the National Debt Office, but there you could not see any mortgage on the public debt. I am still very curious about what the money will be used for. If you do not use the money for an increased construction of student housing, I really hope that it is used for something that gives an investment for Sweden.
i-94b3b97e4e02f441-218	Mrs. Old President! It is quite right that there has recently been a revaluation of the property values in the parent company. It is a way of creating free equity. The market valuation of the properties has been valid for a long time within the Group as a whole. It's just that no adjustment has been made. After the adjustment, the property values amount to approximately 63 per cent of the market values within the Group. Therefore, it is considered that there has been no additional risk, and this has been prepared very carefully in the company. The property values in the parent company are still at a satisfactory level relative to the market value of the group. I fully share the view on how to get a functioning construction that meets the expectations and needs that exist. These needs do not diminish over time either. We already have a large housing debt, not least in this metropolitan area. But now there is a housing shortage in the majority of Sweden's municipalities. If this is going to happen, we're going to have to do a lot of things at the same time. The investment aid is part of it. Another is the considerations and review of the acquis by the previous government, which is now being followed up by the current government. But in the end, it is the municipalities that have the planning monopoly. Therefore, it is also necessary to have a strong relationship with them in order to produce more planned land. We must ensure that it will be financially possible for more people to build housing and participate in markets such as student housing. That is why I think that the investment aid for this type of housing is quite right. When it existed earlier, we saw that there was an increase in construction and that it made it possible for more actors. One of the actors when it comes to student housing is currently Akademiska Hus. We will, as I said earlier, really clarify but also more clearly follow up on the mission they have. Is it that you have the capacity to build additional housing and also have access to plotted land for that, I see it as only positive. I fully agree that it is not the home that should detract from the choice of place of study without the interest, the eligibility and the opportunity to get into the education you want.
i-94b3b97e4e02f441-223	Mrs. Old President! I was waiting for the eminent Mats Green to get up in the speaker's chair, but now it was me at once. I thank the Government for its answer. That was a good and very long answer. What I might wonder is how much you wrote up the value of the properties with to enable the evaluation. I read somewhere that it was $5 billion, but I don't know if that's true. It is possible that this is the case; I cannot say that. But it would be pretty good because they made an extra dividend of 6.5 billion. Often such an arrangement can be considered to be of the type that venture capital companies sometimes use – to write up the values in order to be able to distribute extra money. But venture capital companies are of course not something that the Swedish government is involved in. The answer to the housing shortage is not called Kaplan. The answer to the housing shortage is less regulation. I appeal to the Government to put real pressure on the Green Party to ensure that there is more housing. Generally speaking, I think they have often had very difficult to put the shovel on the slopes, no matter where you look, but especially in the Stockholm area, where I have been active. There is always some bleak from the Greens that it is not possible to build. Then it is important that the Social Democrats, who are in government with the Greens, take the lead shirt, ensure that there is new housing and make it easier for the municipalities, so that they can start building with reduced regulation. In Stockholm there are 30 000 detailed plans that have been completed and adopted that are not used for construction. Why is it not built according to these detailed plans? It's just granting a building permit tomorrow, isn't it? It will not take more than ten weeks to obtain a building permit in this country. We could solve a large part of the housing shortage right away. Otherwise, I would like to wish the Minister a pleasant weekend!
i-94b3b97e4e02f441-228	Mrs. Old President! I thank Erik Andersson very much and would like to take the opportunity to wish the same! No, of course we in the government are not taking risks, but it is the precautionary principle that applies, as in this case too. What we are doing is capital restructuring for the effective management of state-owned companies. It is also communicated with the Riksdag, so I think that this is basically something that we all support. We have felt that the objective of solidarity that has been set is just right. Now we are in a low-interest situation, but we think it is precisely this balance between equity and borrowed capital that our companies should have in order to have the most efficient capital structure possible. The adjustment precisely leads to a better balance between equity and borrowed capital and thus a capital structure that meets Parliament's expectations. This with the ready-made detailed plans is a sign that the market is not handling this itself. We're seeing it all over the country. SKL has made an assessment of how many cases there are where detailed plans are ready but the builders wait for positions that are more economical to really put the shovel in the ground and start building. Not everything is about appeals, although I also feel that it is a problem that sometimes slows down important constructions. Therefore, I think that the policy that the government has now put forward in its budget proposal with investment aid for, among other things, student housing but also rental apartments is a real policy to get to grips with this, so that the detailed plans can start to be used and so that cheap rentals can start to be built too.
i-94b3b97e4e02f441-231	Mrs. Old President! Fredrik Schulte has asked me how I believe that more generous and more arbitrary health insurance – including through a cut-off period – leads to fewer sick leave. Furthermore, Fredrik Schulte argues that the period of the Alliance's government meant the greatest reduction in sick leave and early retirement in decades and asks whether I think it is correct to describe this as an increase in ill-health rates. Government policy aims to make health insurance more secure, efficient and predictable. Those who are ill and therefore unable to work shall be entitled to reimbursement from sickness insurance. It is correct to describe that absenteeism has increased by almost 70% since 2010, when the time limit was extended. The increase is due both to more people getting sick leave and to an increase in the time spent on sick leave. We take this development seriously. The government has therefore set a target for sick leave. The current evolution of sick leave should be interrupted with a view to reaching a low and stable sick leave. This is something that several governments have pursued but have not yet succeeded in doing. To achieve this goal, the government has presented a broad programme of measures. It is true that the number of people receiving sickness benefit fell sharply during the time of the previous government. The single most important measure to achieve this was the abolition of the fixed-term sickness benefit. 89 000 people had this benefit when it was removed. This became for many a painful process that caused alienation and much suffering. Many who had fixed-term sickness benefits are no longer registered in the ill-health rate, even though they are still ill and are not working. I would like to stress that the current government is convinced that it is possible to combine health insurance that provides security for those who are ill and cannot work with efforts that lead to more people being able to work and sick leave being low and stable.
i-94b3b97e4e02f441-236	Mrs. Old President! I believe that everyone in this House, all parties, all Members of Parliament and almost all the Swedish people agree that health insurance is very important and that it is very important that we have a security system that protects those who fall ill. I was close to losing my mother to cancer a year ago. Had it not been for health insurance, the pressure from the need for livelihood would have been enormous on her. I think we all agree that it is very important that we have a workable health insurance. That is not what there is a political conflict about. There is, on the other hand, a political conflict over the fact that health insurance has been used on various occasions to hide and push people away in various ways to conceal unemployment. In the 1990s we saw a dramatic increase in the number of sick leavers and early retirements. It was not a result of any disease epidemic in Sweden – it was not a question of SARS, birdy nfluensan or something similar spreading in Sweden, it was something completely different. This whole other thing was that we had an economic development where things were going well for the country but where very many despite the good times did not get a job. This concerned the then Social Democratic government, so they lifted the carpet and swept these people away in early retirement and sick leave. We had a system that gave employees at Försäkringskassan a bonus when they succeeded in early retirement. We had a system where they were automatically tested for early retirement after a year in exclusion. This was tried by the Alliance and especially by the Moderates, and we did so by substantially changing the regulations of health insurance. It wasn't perfect reforms. It took time for them to get there and function as they should. But the effect of them was tangible. The reason why I am raising this historical discussion is that we are now on the way to the same development one more time. We have a government that talks about reducing health insurance, but in practice it proposes measures to withdraw the reforms carried out by the Alliance, which tightened the regulatory framework so that it could not be misused. In particular, the removal of the time limit is particularly important. I find it a bit annoying – if I may use that word – and confusing for the debate that we have a Minister for Social Security standing here talking about sick leave increasing during the time of the Alliance in power. It has come back in many debates that I had with the Minister for Social Security, so I went to the intern printing office and pushed up a little poster, which I have here. It illustrates how health insurance developed over the last ten years. We see a dramatic reduction in the number of sick leave and early retirement, but at the end of 2010 we see a small, marginal increase. This is an increase which is worrying and which we should take seriously. We all agree that we should fight it. But the solution to this problem is not to return to the policy of concealing unemployment by increasing sick leave. What is most flagrant is that the Minister for Social Security has actually recognised this in a debate with me. She specifically said: the sickness rates that increased in the late 90s arose because of the financial crisis, not because of illness.
i-94b3b97e4e02f441-244	Mrs. Old President! It is striking how one chooses to pick only certain parts out of history. The truth is that during the 1990s some of the biggest restructurings took place in the Swedish labour market, not least in the public sector, in modern times. To say that it did not have consequences in the public sector with, for example, severe deterioration of the working environment and increased workload in very many workplaces is to be fooled. I myself worked in this business during the late 1990s and early 2000s, both as an employee and as a trade union representative. I saw people get sick in their workplaces. Many of them were older women, 55-plus, and loyal employees in Sweden's welfare, who spent their whole lives loyally supporting the citizens of Sweden. They got sick. It is a partial explanation for the increase in sickness rates, Fredrik Schulte. It is also true that sickness rates in Sweden have fluctuated sharply since the late 1950s, with further acceleration when women entered the labour market at the end of the 1970s. That is what it looked like, and that is one of the reasons why it looks like it does in Sweden, regardless of which government has been in power. The picture is much more complex than you want to show. Yes, it is about labour market issues and how to design our compensation systems. Yes, it is also about how the working environment in our workplaces changes. It's about how society develops. There are no simple answers. That is why this debate, which throws the party political whip at each other in this way, becomes quite ridiculous, to be honest. I would also like to find out what we saw during the term of office of the bourgeois government. Yes, it is true that the development that had already begun under the Swedish Government Persson was further accentuated. Instead of, as you say, concealing unemployment through sick leave and early retirement, the bourgeois government chose to kick people out of health insurance. 89 000 people who had fixed-term sickness benefit lost it. Thank Gud that it affects how early retirements decreased during this period of time! 100 000 people were secured. Thank Gud it affects the numbers of sick people! However, while 100 000 people were insured – many of them are now spinning around in insurance for the third time – in the last four years when you were in government, sickness rates have increased by 70%. Given the curve that you, Fredrik Schulte, showed, this does not seem to worry you. I'll tell you that it's a cost increase of 12 billion, not to mention all the individuals who have become ill during the four years you've been in government. This concerns me, and that is why the government has now put forward a powerful package of measures, as you, Fredrik Schulte, also know.
i-94b3b97e4e02f441-252	Mrs. Old President! The fact that Annika Strandhäll claims that it would not bother me that sick leave increases seems a little strange given that we are currently debating an interpellation where I mention that I am worried that the government will deliberately push people away from health insurance. This is a little interesting. I have a fun anecdote that Anders Borg told me. He told us that at the beginning of his time as Minister of Finance he met the then party leader of the National Coalition Party, the Moderates sister party in Finland, later the Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, Jyrki Katainen. Anders Borg asked him how it is that Finland has so much fewer sick leave and early retirement pensions than Sweden. Then Jyrki Katainen replied: "It's because we're on sick leave for those who are sick. It is interesting that the Minister for Social Security addresses the working environment. Sweden has the world's best working environment. We've had it for a very long time. I'm not saying that there are no health and safety problems in Sweden – the gods should know that it does – but you should still put it in relation to other countries. We are also a people who have very good health. We are also a country that has good and well-functioning healthcare. There are problems, but in general it is good. It is a little strange that in a country with the world's best working environment, perhaps the world's best health care and a very healthy people still had the most early retirement in the world and the world's highest sick leave rate. I am well aware that, at the end of the 1990s, tough efforts were being made for the public sector. I am aware that it caused occupational health and safety problems for many people. However, if you compare with other countries, you should be able to say that it is clear that the huge increase that we saw was about something more. If it were just the work environment and if it were just the cuts in the public sector – one should point out that it is not about disease but about economic changes – all other countries would still have had much higher sickness rates than Sweden had. The reason was that we had a Social Democratic movement that for 100 years had talked about full employment: everyone should work. But you couldn't deliver. You couldn't deliver jobs because you went for grants instead. This was solved by trying to channel people into early retirement and sick leave so that one could beat one's chest. Göran Persson sat on the TV sofas in debates and talked about reaching the 4 percent unemployment target, while the number of people who actually worked did not increase at all. What is upsetting is that we are heading in the same direction. It is not so bad, because the government is under pressure from the opposition. But it's heading in the same direction. The general changes that this government is making are about making the regulation more generous, and then it will be misused. I am convinced that there are a number of ministers, perhaps not Annika Strandhäll, and a number of others within the Social Democracy who are sitting and keeping their fingers crossed and hoping that many people are sickly registered so that they can hide unemployment and go to the voters and say: Oh, look what we have reduced unemployment! But you haven't. You've only hidden people under the carpet. Unemployment has almost become an obsolescence because of how the Social Democrats have tried to hide it. We now see that the same development is on its way once again.
i-94b3b97e4e02f441-260	Mrs. Old President! I note that I now recognise the serious debate on this interpellation debate as well. In addition to the historical reality that I tried to describe to Fredrik Schulte earlier, there is a historical reality in terms of what unemployment has looked like in Sweden. We have generally and in comparison with other countries for an extremely long time had a very low unemployment rate and a high employment rate in Sweden. That's why I'm not getting your reasoning together at all, Fredrik Schulte. What is very true, however, is that you have managed to ensure that sickness rates have increased by 70% since 2010. At the same time, you have secured 100,000 people – many of them are women. You also left behind a budget deficit of 75 billion, an unemployment rate of over 8% and a youth unemployment rate of over 20%. That's why I can't say that the track record you're trying to give the picture of feels very credible. Then maybe you heard that I was very clear about saying that I don't think the fluctuating sickness rates in Sweden have been due solely to working environment factors. I said as late as in my last post that there is a very complex picture. Although both the former bourgeois government and this government have looked at it, we do not have all the answers to the question why sick absence in Sweden is fluctuating as it does. The answer we have today from research is that it is about a combination of economic activity, how to design compensation systems, health and safety factors and how the world develops. As I also said in my last speech, I am very concerned. I do not think that a policy forward should be about getting people in early retirement who should not be there. Just as I don't think we should push the sickness rate down by making sure sick people out of insurance. Both of these things, Fredrik Schulte, are unseriously numerical. That is why the government has presented a package of measures, in which we have been extremely clear that our aim is to achieve a low and stable long-term absence of sick leave. It is an action programme in seven different areas with 25 different actions. It is about everything from the gender perspective, which you see completely by the way when you talk about sick leave in Sweden, to the preventive work, the role of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and the health care system and the support that people should have early in illness in order to be able to quickly come back again. However, as the Finnish colleague apparently said to Anders Borg, people who are ill should be in health insurance and not in income support or having to take out an old-age pension. During your previous reign, nearly 20,000 of them disappeared – they are no longer in the statistics. That's not the way it should be either.
i-94b3b97e4e02f441-266	Mrs. Old President! As I said, everyone agrees that we should have safe and well-functioning health insurance. There is no dispute about this. What we are arguing about is that it can be misused, and it has been misused. Sweden thus had one of the world's highest rates of sick leave. It declined sharply under the bourgeois government. The diagram I have here shows just that. There's a slight increase at the end. It is an increase that we should take seriously and try to combat, but the big trend was clear. We are now entering into a policy that goes back to loosening the regulatory framework so that it can start being abused. That is what we are criticising the government for. I understand that Annika Strandhäll finds it difficult to endure that criticism, but this is still what we are doing here in Parliament. We will examine you in the government to ensure that you do not abuse your power and to ensure that you do not go against the decisions we make here in Parliament. We have taken a decision not to remove the time limit. What's the government doing? Well, it removes the longer time limit. This is a development that is worrying. It is even more worrying that we have a minister who is trying to relax the debate by talking about the big increase since 2010– I have shown that it is not a correct picture of reality– and is taking measures that will have the effect that more people who do not need to be sick and who have an opportunity to get to their right on the labour market do not get that chance. It is the same policy that was conducted during the 90s under Göran Persson. Sweden deserves better.
i-94b3b97e4e02f441-270	Mrs. Old President! The policy that you advocate, Fredrik Schulte, with continued assurances, is just as much as anything else a numerical one. It assures people who are ill and then brings them into the statistics as new cases of illness. We have people who have been spinning in insurance for many, many years. Some are insured for the third time and come in as a new illness, a bit alert, in the statistics. But that's not the truth. I don't want to do the numbers in the future, but we're going to take responsibility for the people who are sick. The cheapest of all, Fredrik Schulte, would surely be if we did not have any health insurance. That's what I hear you say, we're gonna make sure sick people are safe. Then it is extremely striking that you say that the government's actions are a policy that leads in the completely wrong direction. After all, the package of measures that we have presented honours the parliamentary social security inquiry set up by the former Moderate Social Security Minister. I would like to say that a very large proportion of the measures contained in the package of measures are measures on which we block-crossing, we and the Moderates, in the parliamentary social security inquiry as late as March this year were in full agreement. We're setting a target for the infirmary. We focus on strengthening the role of health care. We target resources to enable people with mental illness to receive support from the health care system. We strengthen Försäkringskassan's ability to process at the early deadlines. These are things that I know we have agreed with the Moderates and which can also be found in your own budget motion. Therefore, this debate becomes extremely strange, Fredrik Schulte. We need to take responsibility for sick leave, and we need to work together to create a low and stable sick absence in this country.
