i-efa19ec2562ada45-2	Madam President, I would like Finn Bengtsson has asked me why a precautionary principle is only applied to the evaluation of tax reductions and not to tax increases. He has also asked me how increased public expenditure should be financed if it turns out that the escalation of the job tax credit does not lead to increased revenue for the state. Finally, he has asked me how much I am prepared to increase the marginal tax rate if I do not think that 57% is too high. After the previous government's term of office, we see large deficits in central government finances as well as unemployment that has stuck to high levels. In order to implement urgent efforts that can, among other things, contribute to increased employment and reduced unemployment, the tax rate needs to be increased. The reduction of the job tax credit provides the necessary tax revenue and has a good distribution profile. I would like to stress that there has been no change in the way budget effects are calculated and reported since the last parliamentary term. The budgetary impact shown in the budget is similar to the previous static effect. On the other hand, projections of macroeconomic developments and public financial savings make an overall assessment of the impact of government policies on, for example, employment and GDP. Past experience shows that care should be taken to include dynamic effects in the budgetary context. There are currently no plans to increase the marginal tax beyond those presented in the 2016 budget bill. Finally, I would like to note that Finn Bengtsson claims, based on the same kind of calculations that he uses to criticise the de-escalation of the job tax credit, that the so-called defence tax is a loss business. I remind you then that Finn Bengtsson's own party during its eight years in power chose not to do anything about this alleged loss affair.
i-efa19ec2562ada45-8	Madam President, I would like Sweden is a unique country, gratifyingly enough, usually in a very positive sense. But if we come to the taxation of the people have our unique position in the world many negative foremarks. A too long series of years of socialist-inspired economic policy in the latter part of the 20th century has resulted in Sweden being endowed with the world's highest taxes, not least marginal taxes. Progressivity in tax collection is the highest in the world. As if this is not enough, Sweden is probably the only country where choices can be made to increase taxation further for the population, while large electoral groups seem to be commended for this. The hypocrisy is then completed when the socialists on May 1 sing in their international that, under taxes, we downow. That's true. In my interpellation, I have tried to get the Minister of Finance to discuss the so-called Laffer curve. But the Minister of Finance didn't want that, and the truth is, I understand her. If we were to do so, the arguments for the budget now presented, in which the marginal tax is increased from already high 57% up to 60%, appear to be totally unreasonable to justify scientifically. The aim is to bring more resources to the state in order to implement reforms that cost money. The fact is that the marginal tax rate is even higher for the many people who pay social security contributions, but who nevertheless are above the rate of benefit. For them, the marginal tax is not 60 % but 70 %. It is therefore fortunate that on my question about how high the tax burden can be, the Minister of Finance announces that there are currently no plans to increase the marginal tax beyond what was now presented in the 2016 budget bill. Thank you for that, Magdalena Andersson! However, with her and the practice of the Social Democrats – eagerly encouraged by the Green Party and the Left Party – I do not hold it too unlikely that there will be any further tax increases during the term of office. I will follow this with great interest – as it is called in this speaker's chair. I guarantee you I'll come back to you if that's what's going to happen anyway. To return to the Laffer curve and to the science of how unreasonably high taxes affect the net for both the state and the individual in a negative way, I would like briefly to explain the function of this curve. The Laffer curve describes a so-called curve linear link between tax collection and income to the state. He's a 0 per cent tax deduction, and the government's income for natural reasons will be zero. If you have 100% tax levied on income, the state will not receive any money either. Where on the curve should one then place oneself in order to optimise government revenue while the individual feels that taxation is reasonable? It has been an issue that science has been considering for many years. It is likely that the government will receive more money if the income tax is 10 per cent compared to 90 per cent. No one wants to work as a slave, but then they work for their own sake, even if it would mean more unproductive work for society, such as bartering or direct criminal activity and undeclared work – this to get away from what is perceived as criminal taxation. Most scientific assessors, including Nobel Prize winner Milton Friedman, place the optimal tax pressure according to the Laffer curve somewhere between 25 and 30 percent. So we are already far from this level, and with rapid steps we are even further away. In what way, Magdalena Andersson, can this guarantee that the government, through its tax increase policy on full-time employment, will raise the SEK 4 370 million in revenue due to the tax increases now announced in the autumn budget?
i-efa19ec2562ada45-18	Madam President, I would like The government uses the calculation conventions for the state budget and taxes that were decided after the budget adjustment in the 1990s. These calculation conventions have since been used at the Ministry of Finance to calculate both tax increases and tax reductions. The background to these calculation conventions was, of course, that the bourgeois government broke the state finances in the 90's, among other things, by calculating large dynamic effects on its policies. It would then have a major impact on people's behaviour and increase tax revenues, which unfortunately did not result in stunning effects on public finances. Then the process was tightened up and these calculation conventions were developed, and they are the ones we use, just as the alliance government did during its eight years. Finn Bengtsson is now trying to convince me of where on the Laffer curve Sweden is. A tip for Finn Bengtsson is to start by trying to convince his own party friends, because it might have been easier. During the eight years Finn Bengtsson's own party sat in the government, the tax was reduced by over 130 billion. But nothing was done about the military tax that according to Finn Bengtsson did not bring any money to the treasury. As far as I am aware, the Moderates are currently not pursuing any proposal to reduce the military tax, which according to Finn Bengtsson would be a free deal. But I think in the first place it's easier to convince the party friends than me.
i-efa19ec2562ada45-23	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magdalena Andersson, both for the written answer and for what we now heard in her speech! I have no objection to a review of whether the military tax should be abolished. That, in my view, is a criminal tax on work and entrepreneurship that is not justified. It is also important to note that the Alliance Government has had a profile of tax cuts on labour that affirms the distributional positive profile that the Minister for Finance herself is looking for now that she is raising marginal taxes, which I doubt is distribution policy sensible. Does Magdalena Andersson know what is by far the largest expenditure of a normal Swedish household? Is that the food account? Is that the power bill? Is it a phone, or any other cost that you pay monthly? No, it's not. It is the tax that is by far the largest expense for every medium-Swedish household. That is why, according to the logic of the Social Democrats, it must now be raised further and radically again by the Green Party and the Left. It was estimated that six out of ten people will lose out on the government's budget. Figures indicated that eight out of ten households would do so. Why so many? Well, it is based on progressive developments, not least with the high marginal taxes. For example, if you take a household with a gross income of 80 000 SEK and it happens that one of the income is perhaps 55 000 SEK and another 25 000 SEK this household pays 34 000 SEK more in tax per year than if both had 40 000 SEK in income. Is that fair, Magdalena Andersson? What is very serious about misallocation and the view that progressiveity is the savior of all good wills is that progressiveness reduces the wages of life. For example, if you start with a lower income during your life and then get a higher income at the end of your working life, you are radically disadvantaged compared to having a reasonably balanced income distribution over your working life. Is that fair? No. It also discourages the interest in training, the willingness to change jobs or other efforts, such as starting up business and perhaps helping us to have more employees and fewer unemployed people. This tax-boosting policy will chronically disadvantage those individuals who seek to earn a higher income later on in the labour market in relation to those who are content to have an equal distribution of income over their working lives. It will be quite interesting when we stand here and 13 in a dozen of us politicians declare that the teachers should have radically increased salaries. We all think that the increase in teachers' salaries is a good thing, because it is one of the most important jobs we have for our future generations to be able not least to get into working life properly. But how fair is it if, at the same time, one strikes back by increasing the marginal tax rate for those groups that receive this increase in their academically motivated salaries? It is a very inconsistent policy to give in a way in the beautiful light of rhetoric and, at the same time, to take back in a budget that flies in order that, among other things, the groups of teachers who are going to get increased wages will now have to pay back so much more in tax to society without it being guaranteed, as I have mentioned before, that there will be some profit for society.
i-efa19ec2562ada45-32	Madam President, I would like When you listen to Finn Bengtsson it sounds like teachers will get increased marginal tax. Now I don't think it's a very large percentage of the teaching staff that earns over 50 000 kroner a month, unfortunately. The salary situation of a great many teachers is significantly lower than that. Finn Bengtsson then says that it is unfair if households with different wages receive higher taxation than households with equal pay. This is a consequence of the fact that we have special taxation in Sweden, while a country like Germany, for example, has co-taxation. When you are in Germany debating this type of argument is often put forward. When it comes to using dynamic effects, it would be backing the band to the 90s. To then start arguing for something that may sound like we're going to reintroduce co-taxation in Sweden means that we back the band even more back. I hope that Finn Bengtsson really did not mean that we should go back to co-taxation in Sweden. In order to get away from what Finn Bengtsson thinks is an injustice, we must otherwise abolish the entire state income tax. It would be very costly for public finances.
i-efa19ec2562ada45-36	Madam President, I would like It's not good to put words in someone else's mouth. I never mentioned this about co-taxation. I spoke of progressivity as the major problem. We're going to have a progressive tax scale. We agree on that. I am trying to get a discussion on what this progressiveness should be optimal. I still maintain that with the marginal tax increases now coming with the budget being presented, we will not be guaranteed any increased revenue for the state. That's really the problem. Then there are unfunded tax increases, and that is what this interpellation is about. One can think a little bit about: How can the Swedish people have ended up so far wrong on the Laffer curve without it reacting? It turns out in surveys that when the Swedish people are to assess how much tax they are paying, it is as much as 94 per cent, according to the latest survey, that does not get right in what the actual tax burden for them is. On average, they underestimate the tax burden they face by as much as 30%. Then it may be that the Swedish people are deluded about how much tax they actually contribute to the state, without having understood how high it is. In this way, a certain degree of compliance can be obtained. But this is immoral and not sustainable in the longer term. If you make it clear to the Swedish people how much tax they actually pay and put it in relation to what they can get again, I think that the tax will of the Swedish people may no longer be as great as it is. It is a very serious problem that we must learn to deal with. The tax cuts that the Alliance Government managed to implement and which were initially welcomed by the Social Democrats are sound. But right now, in the glue they are in with the Green Party and, above all, the Left Party in the budgetary context, they are being forced to drive taxes up to levels that could harm our country. I mourn this.
i-efa19ec2562ada45-42	Madam President, I would like It is very nice in the debate that you at least recognize moderates. Moderates are extremely busy with taxes and with a constant desire for new tax cuts. They feel that all tax increases in themselves are evil. There is one side of the coin that the old Moderates oft a forget in their obsession with only taxes. It's that we take in taxes to use the money for something. The things we use the money for are also things that benefit both jobs and growth. If we look around the world, it is not the case that countries with very low taxation have higher employment and growth than countries with a little higher taxation. It's the other way around. The Nordic welfare models stand out very well in an international perspective. We have a slightly higher level of taxation. But we are using resources in such a way that we can strengthen jobs and growth. We can also strengthen equality. More and more economists have found that equal societies perform better than countries with high inequalities. They do so not only because it is better for the people living in the countries, but also because they perform better economically. It is societies where we create systems that enable all people to grow and develop their potential. We do this by having very good kindergartens, high quality schools, fine fritis and free universities and colleges that are open to many. In such a society, people have the opportunity to grow regardless of their background. It is clear that more of all the skills of people in that country will also be discharged. That's why we see what it looks like in the world. Countries like the Nordic countries have high tax pressures and high tax levels. But we use the resources we get in a productive way. It is society that delivers high growth and higher employment, but also very high prosperity for its citizens.
i-efa19ec2562ada45-47	Madam President, I would like Mats Persson has asked me whether I intend to take measures to prevent double taxation by introducing a temporary provision as proposed by the Swedish Tax Agency. The question is raised in the light of the Government's proposal to abolish the right to deduct private pension savings. It is a measure on which there is a great deal of political agreement, and the proposal was announced by the previous government as early as spring 2014. It is important that savers are given the opportunity to make a balanced decision about their future savings. The proposal has been announced in good time and information on the private economic importance of the abolition of the right to deduct has been comprehensive, both through information provided by the authorities and companies concerned and through media attention. The statistics available also show that savings in private pension insurance and pension savings accounts have fallen sharply. I am following this issue closely and will continue to do so. At present, however, it is too early to draw any conclusions on the need for transitional measures on the basis of the information available.
i-efa19ec2562ada45-51	Madam President, I would like I will not delay the Minister of Finance in her heavy business for too long, but I still think this was an interesting interpellation. The interpellant did not have the opportunity to be here, but I still think that the question of principle deserves some thought. In the last non-retellation, we discussed this with increasing the tax burden and levying more taxes on the population than, in my opinion, is necessary. At the same time, it is important that households, with the budget being set up this autumn, have less opportunity to reflect on the potential of the individual in terms of saving. As the authorities have pointed out, the deterioration of the right to deduct savings – which is a form of security for the future – deserves consideration of a transitional provision. I would like to ask the Minister for Finance how she generally sees individuals as trying to secure their own future when they feel that, for example, pensions will not be enough. After all, the previous government introduced investment savings accounts, and the idea was to stimulate savings that could reduce other deductions. Not everyone may have taken note of this, but now the government is going in and increasing the tax even on investment savings accounts and thus counteracting savings. There is no broad consensus, as the Minister says, about thus impairing the Swedish people's chances of saving. The Alliance's idea was to switch between different ways of saving. I note that the Social Democrats, together with their comrades in the Green Party and the Left Party, are happy to deprive the Swedish people of the opportunity to save in this way.
i-efa19ec2562ada45-56	Madam President, I would like It was an interesting release from the Moderate Budget Movement that you are going to go against this change in investment savings accounts. We'll see if the other alliance parties do too. At least we know where the Moderates will stand on that issue. Given that the tax on the investment savings account is determined on the basis of our government loan interest rate and we currently have an extremely low interest rate level, it is the government's view that the taxation on the investment savings account is extremely low. We therefore propose, on the one hand, to introduce a floor for how low taxation can be, and, on the other hand, to raise the percentage of taxation in that account to the level that the investigation actually proposed when proposing the investment savings account. In this way, the government's proposal may not be extremely radical. As far as the right to deduct pension savings is concerned, this is a proposal which the Alliance Government previously announced and proposed and which this government is now pursuing. I think the proposal made by the Alliance Government in this regard is balanced and reasonable.
i-efa19ec2562ada45-59	Madam President, I would like Allan Widman has asked Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist what measures the Minister of Defence is prepared to take to maintain good order in the agreement on the acquisition of 36 JAS Gripen E by Brazil and for the acquisition of weapons and sensors for this purpose. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. AB Svensk Exportkredit has the task to conduct credit operations on a commercial and sustainable basis in order to promote Swedish export industry by offering financing solutions that directly or indirectly promote Swedish exports. The concept of Swedish export industry is that the credits can not only apply to goods and services originating in Sweden but can be extended to other supplies that benefit Swedish exports, employment or other interests. In this respect, no distinction is made between different sectors as long as necessary permits exist. AB Svensk Exportcredit's counterparty in the credit agreement in question is the Brazilian State. All payments under the credit agreement are subject to the necessary authorisation.
i-efa19ec2562ada45-62	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Damberg, for the answer to my interpellation! In general, I am not a friend of Swedish taxpayers being bailed out for Sweden's exports of war material. Yet over the years I have become accustomed to the fact that Swedish products are the subject of export credits to varying degrees. It can be said, Madam President, that even when you look at our Swedish Gripen aircraft only, the foreign content of these aircraft is very extensive today. At least half of the value added in JAS 39 Gripen has foreign suppliers. This applies to the United States, to the United Kingdom, but also to several other countries. Only the engine planned to sit in the new version of JAS 39 Gripen E represents one fifth of the aggregate cost. My interpellation, however, is not about the EUR 36 billion in export guarantee issued for the Swedish Gripen aircraft, but rather about the EUR 2 billion that Sweden is lending to the Brazilian state to procure weapons and sensors from South Africa and Israel respectively. The fact that these 2 billion are in a separate financing agreement speaks, in my opinion, because the logical context of the main delivery of fighter aircraft is quite heavy. I wonder, of course, Mr Damberg, what jobs here in Sweden will benefit from the fact that we are now financing the supply from the South African and Israeli defence industries. I would like to stress that the reason for my interpellation may not be so much about export credits as about how the government intends to bring good order to the operations that we now see before us. Is it wise for Swedish authorities and Swedish government officials to certify invoices relating to deliveries that neither originate from Sweden nor have Sweden as their final destination?
i-efa19ec2562ada45-68	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Allan Widman, for the question! First of all, I would like to say that export credits and guarantees in this form have been in place for quite some time in Sweden and are common in many sectors. Not least during the financial crisis, it had an enormous impact on Swedish companies' ability to trade and export when the credit situation looked like it did. The entire activities of these authorities are based on defining what is important for Swedish exports and what is in Swedish interest. In fact, I find it difficult to see any business that in such a clear way favours Swedish interest as the sale of Gripen to Brazil. It is Sweden's largest export business ever and comprises 36 planes. It is a deal amounting to SEK 39.3 billion. Only Saab expects the deal to create perhaps 1,000 jobs in production and development in the Linköping region. It is a cooperation that goes a long way forward with Brazil. It is a collaboration that we are now building with Brazil for 30 to 40 years and is about both deepening and broadening Sweden's bilateral cooperation with Brazil in a number of areas. We are quite proud that Brazil has identified Sweden as one of a few strategic partners internationally. Looking at the factors why Brazil chose to buy the Gripen system from Saab in the fierce competition with French Rafale and US F18, it was above all the far-reaching industrial cooperation with technology transfer, attractive economic components and competitive financing that contributed. I think it is definitely possible to argue that the financing was an important part of the overall affair that helped to bring it about. I also think it is incredibly important that it is order and order in, not least, matters relating to defence equipment. There is, of course, a specific legislation governing this type of activity. I want to make it clear that although a number of equipment in this system will not cross Sweden's borders, it is the same control to be carried out on the products and the same approvals to be given by the Swedish side in this transaction. It is therefore the same regulatory framework that should apply. If you broaden the discussion a little bit, as Allan Widman was into himself, big companies today rarely produce everything from a product themselves a or in a country, but you are part of global value chains where imports and exports become a whole. Above all, in these very advanced technology projects dealing with fighter planes, there will be various systems that must work together. What the buyer buys is actually a working fighter aircraft with all its components. Allan Widman knows that we do not produce all the systems that a JAS plane can carry. It is ultimately the buyer, in this case Brazil, who must define the type of defence system that is appropriate to have on a fighter aircraft if one chooses to buy it. It seems quite reasonable that if a state buys a fighter aircraft, it can also buy the systems associated with that fighter aircraft to be used for its purposes.
i-efa19ec2562ada45-76	Madam President, I would like The Government is absolutely right that a fighter aircraft is a system of systems. Saab's speciality is not to produce components but to combine the components into a functioning system of systems. At the same time, however, I would like to say that it is one of the rarest things on the arms side to guarantee the payment in parallel with the platforms also for weapons that have nothing to do with Swedish industry and manufacturing. If you make too wide an interpretation of the areas that could be the subject of export credit, you will end up on a sloping level where taxpayers are ultimately at risk of paying for very extensive commitments. I think I can recall that the Swedish National Audit Office has also had views on Swedish Export Credit and that the limits in which the credit can be applied in the sense of the Swedish National Audit Office are too unclear. There will be a question for the Government: Does he intend to contribute to a more clear demarcation? Madam President, I would like We should be extremely proud that a small country such as Sweden is able to be the final supplier of something as advanced and complex as a combat aircraft system. However, we should not underscore the fact that we have made a very generous offer, not least with regard to the financing to Brazil. The state of Brazil usually borrows on the international capital market at interest rates well above 10%, and the loans we offer have now been given to 2.5% and run over as long as 25 years. These are very favourable conditions, and we are not going to put that under control. After what has been pre-emptive in recent years regarding authorisations under the Armaments Act and exports of armaments, I think it goes without saying that the government has arranged for all the necessary permits from the ISP. But my question is about the risks normally involved in international arms dealings, not least with regard to corruption. How does the government intend to organise this transaction and financing in a way that ensures that good order arises and that any corruption is excluded? The Government indicated that Swedish officials will physically take stock of deliveries. If that is the message, I feel much more secure. But I think it is difficult to act as an intermediary in this way when it is not Sweden that sends the products and it is not Sweden that receives them.
i-efa19ec2562ada45-82	Madam President, I would like SEK is tasked with supporting Swedish export industry with export credits. It's their mission to do that. This could mean financing a customer's purchase of components delivered from another country. Allan Widman here suggests that we should have a completely different assignment for both EKN and SEK. It is a political discussion you can have, but it goes a little bit against the logic that both Allan Widman and I have championed and which means that large companies and big business today are becoming more and more of system discussions. If we believe that the role of these authorities is to support the Swedish export industry and the ability to do business internationally, it should rather suggest that it becomes more common that not all components come from Sweden but that there is an obvious Swedish interest in the business. Sometimes this deal is just described as an economic risk. I would say that it is hugely good for Swedish taxpayers that the JAS project is capable of exporting. The costs for Swedish taxpayers will be considerably higher if we do not do international business with our fighter aircraft. It actually shares the development costs and costs of the Swedish defence, which is important. In addition, we receive royalties for each sold plan, and this is not a negligible economic issue for the Swedish state. In addition, you can add the indirect effects that I do not want to count on, but everyone can think about what it means for Sweden as a state that 1 000 jobs are created only in Linköping and that Saab's other businesses around Sweden get a boost on this. So there will be more people who get jobs and who also pay taxes. When we talk about costs and risks, we will also consider what would have happened to the costs of the JAS project if there had been no deal with Brazil. You still have to have both of those parts with you when you discuss these issues. It is a question of principle raised by Allan Widman, which concerns whether Swedish interest can only be defined as all that is produced or originates in Sweden. It would be to take Swedish Export Credits but also EKN's operations quite far back in time. Think about a v isld that works that way! Can Allan Widman sort out a little bit how it would work if systems were not to be delivered and our big truck manufacturers, for example, cannot deliver a truck where the chassis has been manufactured in another country that is a client or where one has a collaboration? In this case, they would be about some equipment that we cannot produce for the JAS project because we do not have that production. I think the buyer of a fighter aircraft wants to make a deal with a fighter aircraft that can be used for the purposes you buy it for, which makes it reasonable that it is an important business for Swedish interests. It's part of the discussion. Then there is information. I am clear that it is incredibly important that the Swedish state in all the parts where we participate – if it is the Swedish Armed Forces or our other authorities – is clear that we do not have any tolerance for corruption, bribery and things that have historically affected the defence industry in different rounds in our country as well. I believe that Saab, which is the contracting party to Brazil, has an open approach and is clear that it does not conduct business in this way. Then Swedish authorities have to control this deal in exactly the same thorough way as any other business. We do not accept bribery and corruption with lorries or any other activity involving the state authorities.
i-efa19ec2562ada45-89	Madam President, I would like If someone had told me to mention typical components on a fighter plane, I would have started talking about catapult chairs, pivot tubes, control systems, perhaps even combat management systems and communication equipment. But I don't think I would immediately have said that weapons, individual robots, are components. The fact that Minister Damberg exemplifies in this way makes me think of an extended line of reasoning. Is it the case that Sweden, within the framework of the export of combat planes, can also take responsibility for building infrastructure and runways? Can we take responsibility for building up national combat management systems in those countries? Somewhere you have to draw a line when Swedish interests and what we want to benefit, in the form of Swedish jobs, are not clear enough for taxpayers to bail out. I think it would be good if, together or the government alone, we could specify and clarify those limits. They will be put to the test. That's why I'm convinced. Yes, it costs when export customers get off. Switzerland stepped off Gripen E a couple of years ago. The cost was immediately 2.5 billion for the Swedish state. So certainly there are costs associated with this. However, we should also remember that when we export it means other consequences, for example for the Swedish Air Force. This means an increased shortage of spare parts, a lack of flight technicians and more. There, export customers tend to be given priority. Madam President, I would like I am convinced that Saab is very exemplary in this business. But my question is always about what the government intends to do, now that Swedish authorities come in as an intermediary, so that Swedish authorities do not engage in something that can subsequently be considered less appropriate?
i-efa19ec2562ada45-95	Madam President, I would like I am sure that this is a discussion that will continue in the future. I believe that we will see more major strategic business where Swedish interests will be defined as having a main supplier but where international actors will be involved in the business. In my field, for example, we often talk about countries being interested in building smart cities. India says they'll build 100 smart cities. I know that many large Swedish companies would be interested in contributing to such a deal. It is very unlikely that Swedish companies alone would build a smart city. If so, it is done with others. Is it then a business that we think there are Swedish interests to contribute to, for example, building public transport systems in other parts of the world, which benefits Swedish industry? I think the questions will come back. There will be more system thinking and more global value chains. But then, just as Allan Widman says, it is important to keep track of things, that you follow regulations and that you don't get fooled into something you don't have control over. Those parts are important to follow all the way. However, when we talk about the risks involved in this business, mention should also be made of the opportunities that they may lead to. Only this deal is Sweden's biggest export deal of all time, as I mentioned before. In the first stage, it's 36 planes. But in the next step, it is very likely that Brazil will want to buy more plans. Then our strategic cooperation with Brazil will have a completely different dimension. Part of the development work will then grow in Sweden, but other things will grow in Brazil. What we do in the deal is build a strategic partnership between Sweden and Brazil. Brazil is a large country, but also a country that Sweden has great opportunities to work strategically with on world markets. I take a fundamentally positive view of this affair, which I know Allan Widman does, too. And I think you have to be careful to say that the business that has now been concluded is within the regulatory framework and the statutes that both SEK and EKN have. It was probably a prerequisite for the deal to happen.
