i-de2172d592422bd6-9	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating aid policy. The Alliance does not participate in the grant decision. We are in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservation 4, paragraph 4, on the direction of development policy. Mr President, I would like to In today's debate, I would have preferred to talk about the substance of politics. It is good that the development policy platform still governs Swedish aid, with the overall priorities democracy and human rights, the environment and climate, as well as gender equality and women's role in development. It is good to have a long-term view and a common understanding. The objective of Category 7 International aid also remains: to create the conditions for better living conditions for people living in poverty and oppression. But some of the politics worry. The government is losing its focus on the country and is unable to keep its finances in order. First, there's no news. Then come different messages every week. Results strategies should no longer be called that way, but just a strategy, because this result seems to be no longer so important. Vaccines are no longer a priority. The government is monumentally uninterested in sexual and reproductive health and rights, SRHR. They think it's just about equality or health. They are leaning on a strategy of some 350 million a year in the case of sub-Saharan Africa or on some mandatory debate article. They have completely lost the perspective of rights in this matter. It's a risk to people. But budget management has overshadowed everything else. Today we are debating a budget that is already over-played. Sure, the world is changing. The situation is exceptional. But it's how changing conditions are handled that counts. Autumn's management of the budget has been under criticism. The two parties in the government could not agree on how much of the aid framework would go to refugee reception in Sweden. Then they landed at 30 percent. And then they didn't have the strength to get their support party on that deal. The rhetoric does not match the policy of S and MP, who have had a very high tone in terms of the counting that existed during the Alliance's time – 7% of the aid budget. In the budget on the table is the figure of 22 per cent, based on the Finnish Immigration Service's July forecast. It's more than a triple. But the government has now pledged something that is more than quadrupled. Exactly how this will be, the government parties will announce in a spring change budget, they have promised. So we already know that the framework on which S, MP and V are set will not last for long. The Swedish National Audit Office has also begun a review of the settlements. Mr President, I would like to Is this speech so grumpy because I am moderate and just talking about the budget, the ceilings and the financial framework or because I am a boring formalist? Yes, it is possible that this is the case for both reasons. In addition, however, the budget is the document that gives us all the basis for political rhetoric. This gives the Riksdag the opportunity to review the government. Here we will see if what has been promised is true. As things stand today, it certainly does not. Mr President, I would like to One possible measure is to call for the budget to be referred back to committee so that we can have a proper reading of it and highlight what is aggravating it. But the picture is that the government cannot be able to give any reasonable information at all and that only the spring change budget is referred to. On the other hand, this has been so badly handled that I am today notifying the government of the KU. With such a weak government, parliamentary cooperation must work, but it falls repeatedly. I regret that we are in danger of losing the consensus and long-term vision of aid which has been a success factor and which has made a difference. It is sad that more and more people are losing confidence in the government parties on this issue too. It damages Sweden's reputation.
i-de2172d592422bd6-17	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates point out a justified criticism of how the government has managed the aid budget – in particular the issue of settlements. I understand the criticism. I agree 100% with the criticism. The government has presented a budget that has already fallen; it no longer applies. However, I think that we must also go to the heart of the issue, which is the issue of the high rates of settlement. I do not think it is enough just to criticise the issues of form and how the government has dealt with this. The Alliance government also had constantly very high settlements. It wasn't 30%. But perhaps around 8 billion of the aid was spent on refugee reception. It did not often get even higher when the spring budget was presented. What would the difference be? How had an alliance government dealt with a similar situation with increased refugee reception? Although the Moderates have now changed the policy of signaling how to deal with the reception of refugees, the Alliance Government has also contributed to the great reception that we have today. What do the Moderates think about taking 30% of the aid to finance the reception of refugees in Sweden? Is that right, or is it wrong? What level do you consider appropriate?
i-de2172d592422bd6-20	Mr President, I would like to Generally speaking, it seems to be hot in the debate right now with hypothetical questions. We saw Agenda yesterday – there were also some of those. I do not want to speculate, but this is how it is: we have two government parties who have said that they should take responsibility for Sweden. They have presented a budget that they are also responsible for piloting through the Riksdag. As far as the more fundamental issues are concerned, I can see that there are major differences in the view of people between the Swedish Democrats and the other parties in the Swedish Parliament. I think we should have a good reception for refugees and that there should be order. As far as the 30% is concerned, Parliament will have to take a position on this in the spring change budget, the two government parties have promised. Then I'll wait. I want to know exactly how, exactly what and what the effects will be before I take a stand on it.
i-de2172d592422bd6-24	Mr President, I would like to But it is today that we have a debate and have the opportunity to take different decisions on the aid budget. Then I do not think it is good for the Moderates to criticise the management of the government, but they themselves do not have any concrete proposal for which accounts they want to see. We have a concrete proposal: we want to limit the deductions to the costs of receiving resettlements. That is what we are presenting in our specific opinion, which the framework has already been established. Can't the Moderates point out any suggestion as to what you think is an appropriate level? When the decision comes in the spring budget, we will be able to respond to it, but I still think that the Moderates today should be able to tell us what they themselves think is an appropriate level of settlements in aid.
i-de2172d592422bd6-27	Mr President, I would like to I think it is very important to have order in the parliamentary work. Today we are having a debate on the budget on the table of Parliament. We do not have a debate on random data in the media, press articles from the government or press releases from the Left Party. We'll take a stand on what's on the table. The Moderates present their views, in particular the direction of aid policy. We have it as a reservation, and we have called for that reservation. There we moderates describe our view of aid. That is what we are considering today. The rest is just speculation.
i-de2172d592422bd6-30	Mr President, I would like to Sofia Arkelsten describes a mess in budget management. It has, of course, a reason for the migration situation we have today and which puts a great deal on the head when it comes to planning conditions. This, of course, affects the conditions for a budget. Just as Sofia Arkelsten describes, we realised when the budget landed on Parliament's table that the forecasts on which it is based are of course no longer valid on the basis that the number of people seeking asylum in our country had increased very much. A discussion then broke out on how large the asylum reception bills would be and how much would be deducted from the aid budget. Multiplying the way we have used to do it was even talked about half or more of the aid bill. This would, of course, have devastating consequences for the development cooperation that Sweden conducts around the world. Just as Sofia Arkelsten describes, the government decided to set a ceiling and has also announced that it will return to the spring amending budget with proposals on how the settlements will be adjusted. It is late news; I can agree with that. But it is also an exceptional situation. My question to Sofia Arkelsten, and this is not a hypothetical question, is how many times the aid budget has been amended in the current year during the eight years that you and the previous government led the development work.
i-de2172d592422bd6-35	Mr President, I would like to Kenneth G. Forslund describes the intensive exchange of information that Parliament and the Government have had in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. We have asked for information, and we have also received it. But it's been pretty late. We have to postpone the adjustment, which is therefore the last reading before the matter comes to this House, even though the government knows how the parliamentary work is done. A counter-question to Kenneth G Forslund is, of course, whether he is satisfied with the handling of the information in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and how we have worked. I think there is some potential for improvement, if I'm going to be a little harsh. It is clear that things are changing, as I said in my speech. The world around us is changing all the time, but it is how to manage the changes and it is how to work with our amending budget, communication and information to the Riksdag that is important.
i-de2172d592422bd6-38	Mr President, I would like to I note that I did not receive an answer to how many times the former bourgeois government with a moderate minister of aid changed the aid budget during this year. After all, there were a number of times in the spring amending budget that money was transferred to increased settlements. It was even the case that a year in the spring amending budget was increased, and then in the autumn the amending budget said: Prognosen did not fall out that way, so we are moving the money back. Where that money actually went since the fall I can say was very unclear. Am I satisfied with the handling? Am I satisfied with the information? No, I am a person who is always looking for as much information as possible, so I probably never really feel that I have enough information. I always want to search for more information so that I can make as well-informed decisions as possible. Here I can see that, although late in the decision-making processes that we have had in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we have had more information than in previous years, when moderate aid ministers have only told us in connection with our amending budget what changes there are. Once again, I ask Sofia Arkelsten: how many times did you change?
i-de2172d592422bd6-43	Mr President, I would like to I note that Kenneth G. Forslund repeats himself. What is important is precisely how to deal with the changes. Just as I know Kenneth G. Forslund that the aid budget is usually a budget that needs to be changed after changes in the world, but also as the budget changes, for example. It is one of the few budget areas where it is decided to try to reach 1%. I note that the Alliance achieved 1%, and I can see that S and MP are not quite getting there. It is no wonder that you need to change a budget over time when the outside world looks like it does. The situation in terms of security and other matters has changed tremendously. But it is about how this is handled. Is it managed by exasperating all aid organisations and simply refusing to give answers, not communicating anything? Is it handled by the largest public service agency telling us what the impact would be if the aid were halved, or rather if half of the money were to go to refugee reception in Sweden? I don't think so. I think there has been a lack of responsibility, a sense of order and I also think that there is a lack of respect for the working methods in Parliament.
i-de2172d592422bd6-47	Mr President, I would like to I must say that it is with great fascination that I listen to Sofia Arkelsten. I never think I have heard an aid policy spokesperson in a development policy debate that refuses to talk about its own development policy. It's like the Moderates are totally missing one. It's not like that now. I have read the Moderate exercise, although Sofia Arkelsten now chooses not to talk about it. I note that the Moderates' motion proposes a reduction of SEK 820 million in Swedish aid operations next year. You want to reduce aid by SEK 820 million, at a time when we have new development goals that give us hope of eradicating poverty, at a time when we have just had a climate summit that gives us hope of stopping climate change, at a time when we see the worst humanitarian disaster in our lifetime in the Middle East. The Moderates then choose to reduce the aid by SEK 820 million. Sofia Arkelsten does not mention this with a comma in her speech. I would like to ask Sofia Arkelsten a few questions about the moderate aid policy, because there are many questions. In her speech, Sofia Arkelsten says that the government has lost its focus on land. What does this mean? Which countries do the Moderates want us to phase out Swedish aid to? If you think that the government has lost the focus on land, the Moderates must have some other alternative where you think it should be fewer countries, and then you are welcome to present which countries we should phase out the Swedish aid to. Then, in their motion, the Moderates propose to reduce bilateral aid by SEK 500 million next year – half a billion. This corresponds to the total Swedish aid to Lebanon, Tunisia, the Central African Republic and Cambodia. Here too, however, there are no suggestions or ideas about where the money should be taken. That is why I would like to put a question to Sofia Arkelsten, the Development Policy Spokesperson for the Moderates. In which countries do the Moderates want to cut half a billion of Swedish aid next year?
i-de2172d592422bd6-52	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting to hear the Left Party's Hans Linde, who still describes himself as being in opposition but who represents one of the government's supporting parties in getting the financial perspectives through. The Left Party has therefore set itself a ceiling of 30% of the bill because you will be voting in favour of the Government's proposal. Or is it possibly in some other way? I'm really curious to hear what Hans Linde has to tell me about it. As a moderate, I am very proud of our aid policy. The work carried out under both Gunilla Carlsson and Hillevi Engström has been an extremely good work. It's been a matter of land focus. It has been about getting an aid policy platform in place, cleaning up the forest of policies that have been criticised. I am pleased that there is enthusiasm for the aid work. Much has to do with the climate meeting and the sustainability goals. I would have liked to have talked more about the content of aid itself, but I can see that content is nothing if you do not have the form clear, i.e. if there is no order in the budget, if it is not possible to be clear what is going to apply, if the parliamentary work is not respected and if it is not possible to obtain requested information. As far as the focus on aid is concerned, we have presented the counter-motion we aroused when the government presented its budget. We have proposed phasing out Iraq and Burkina Faso. We would like to increase aid in the humanitarian field. We have also communicated this on recent occasions in the media. I am convinced that there are not really so great differences in aid policy involvement in the Swedish parliament. It is possibly a party that stands out, and it is not the Left Party.
i-de2172d592422bd6-58	Mr President, I would like to I note that Sofia Arkelsten has completely lost her way in the matter of form. Yes, we need to discuss design issues, but we also need to discuss the content of policy. The Moderates have raised a motion, and I ask specific questions about it because there are big questions. I don't get any answers. Why do the Moderates want to cut Swedish aid by SEK 820 million in this political situation? Answer that, Sofia Arkelsten! You're saying they've lost the land focus. Which countries do the Moderates want to phase out aid from? I hear Burkina Faso and Iraq. Does Sofia Arkelsten seriously mean that Sweden in the crisis we are seeing right now in Iraq should pack up and get out of there? Does Sofia Arkelsten really think that two weeks after the first democratic presidential election has taken place in Burkina Faso's 55-year history, the Swedish aid should be discontinued? Is it the Moderates' message today that Sweden should turn its back on those who are fighting for democracy and change and against poverty in Burkina Faso and Iraq? Where will the 500 million kroner be taken from? Which countries? Even if we dismantle everything next year in Burkina Faso and Iraq, that would not be enough. Now is the time to tell us where the Moderates stand. It is time to show that you have an aid policy.
i-de2172d592422bd6-62	Mr President, I would like to I note that Mr Linde, with a certain elegance, does not respond to what it is like to be a support party for the Social Democrats and the Green Party on budgetary issues. I also note that the Moderates had another draft budget. That's 820 million below. I can also note that during this autumn's hullabaloo, perhaps 4 billion will go to aid activities, i.e. refugee reception in Sweden. There will be 2 billion weeks after that perhaps to be brought forward. It is unclear what government policy is. As regards the strategies and the development policy of the Moderates and the Alliance, I note that the policy is a good one. We've delivered. For a long time we have had a good consensus and tried to agree on important Swedish values, and we have delivered on this issue. I also note the high tone of the Left Party. It is possible that there may be a challenge in the future when S, V and MP agree on the next aid budget. We also know that the 30 % ceiling is only valid for one year. What's next? It probably wants to be part of the left-wing party's decision, and it will be interesting for the whole of Sweden and the world of aid.
i-de2172d592422bd6-65	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 5 and 10 from the Swedish Democrats. We also have a specific opinion on the framework of aid, but since the framework is already in place, we have a specific opinion on our economic policy in aid. Today we are dealing with the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy. The Swedish Democrats want to see aid that creates the conditions for people in poverty and oppression to improve their living conditions based on their basic needs in the immediate everyday life. We want a clear focus on poverty reduction and the children's best interests to be at the centre. For the Swedish Democrats, it is important that the aid framework does not fall below 0.7 per cent of GDP, and this year we have landed on an aid budget that totals the Government's budget by 515 million SEK in Category 7. The big issue in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which we have already heard a lot about this autumn, has been that we have dealt with an aid budget from the government that has already fallen. In the budget bill, the government had estimated to take about 8 billion from the aid to fund reception of refugees in Sweden, which represents about 19 percent of total aid. Now the government intends to increase the settlements to 30 percent, which would mean that an additional 4 billion will be taken from the aid and spent on refugee reception in Sweden. There will be a clearer message in the spring change budget. Instead, the Swedish Democrats want to severely limit the settlements to cover only the cost of those who come through resettlement through the UNHCR. Increased settlements for reception of refugees are considered to be a very serious and negative trend in Swedish aid. With reduced aid, it means less opportunities to assist refugees in the immediate vicinity of the crisis, both with humanitarian aid and with long-term efforts, which can create a vicious circle of more refugees and further reductions in aid. Given that we are facing the worst refugee disaster since the Second World War, we believe that refugee aid in the immediate vicinity of crises is an area of aid that needs to be given much higher priority. Other important efforts to combat and prevent poverty for the most vulnerable people, such as water and sanitation, agricultural development and education, are also important and need to be strengthened. According to the UNHCR, over 4 million people have been forced to flee Syria to nearby countries. In addition, 7 million Syrians are currently internally displaced and about 12 million, over half of the country's population, are in need of humanitarian aid. In neighbouring Iraq, 2 million people have been forced to leave their homes and are on the run in or outside the country. Mr President, I would like to I have visited both Jordan and Lebanon and seen the enormous needs that exist. The World Food Programme has periodically had so little resources that they had to halve or completely shut down their food program in some areas. Winter's cold is approaching, the need for heat for refugees is acute and the UN needs additional resources for its winter programme. Last winter, young children died because of the cold in Syria and in refugee camps. That is unacceptable. When I have met organisations on the ground, part of the message has been that not all people either want to or cannot get to Europe. That is why I think it is deeply unfair that so much money in aid is spent on reception for refugees in Sweden, while many families are without help for the most basic needs. I am very upset that Sweden and other countries in Europe have completely snowed in that the only way to help is to continue with the message that if they can afford, if they are prepared to go on a deadly journey across the Mediterranean, then there are resources to help them, but if they stay in the immediate vicinity of the crisis or try to go the legal path of quota refugees, then they are not priorities. It is good that the government is giving a core support to the UNHCR of about 700 million and now announces that it wants to make a reinforcement of 800 million. But that is not enough – far from it. Therefore, the Swedish Democrats have budgeted 9 billion for refugee aid in the immediate vicinity of the crisis in the form of both humanitarian and longer-term interventions. This could mean an increase of 3 billion to UNHCR, 3 billion to the World Food Programme, 1 billion to UNICEF and 1 billion to the World Bank's long-term efforts and 1 billion to other organisations that can assist IDPs. I am aware that this reinforcement involves some redistribution and redeployment of aid, but when children are about to freeze to death and starve to death, I think it is necessary. For the most part, we take 7 billion less than the government from aid to settlements. Other things we do to re-prioritise are to dismantle the cooperation with Eastern Europe, general budget support and other similar forms of assistance such as support for banking and financial services. We want to phase out aid to the Palestinian Authority and research cooperation through Sida and reduce the part of the long-term democracy work through Sida, which focuses on support to institutions, as we want a greater focus on aid aimed at civil society and the most vulnerable people. In addition to refugee aid, however, we are increasing efforts such as aid for water and sanitation and agricultural development. In conclusion, the Swedish Democrats want to work for effective, humane and proper aid that can make a difference in people's immediate everyday lives.
i-de2172d592422bd6-80	Mr President, I would like to I have just one simple, curious question: on what basis do the Swedish democrats think it reasonable to use settlements for the refugees who are being resettled? What is the basic idea of using settlements then?
i-de2172d592422bd6-81	Mr President, I would like to After all, resettlement is also included in the possibilities available under the rules of the OECD. But we think we need to limit ourselves somewhere. The government has used the full range of accounts available and stretched the borders. Instead, we want to limit strongly and just count off for those who come through resettlement. For them, it is not about the costs of the asylum process itself. They've already been given asylum. Everything is granted and ready. Housing in municipalities is granted. This is also often addressed to the most vulnerable people, often women and children, in cases where it is untenable to stay in refugee camps. That is why I think it is very reasonable to make a statement for those who come through resettlement. So this is about 810 million for which we are counting – unlike the government, which wants to make settlements of 8 billion and now perhaps another 4 billion. That would amount to a total of 12 billion. There's a pretty substantial difference. We'll reduce the settlements by 90%. I would like to ask Kerstin Lundgren what she thinks about settlements. Is 90%, which is the current level and which the previous alliance government also had, a reasonable level? Is 30% a reasonable level? What level does the government think is appropriate to have on settlements? How much money is it reasonable to spend on reception in Sweden while the refugee aid in the immediate area of the crisis is not very large?
i-de2172d592422bd6-86	Mr President, I would like to I hear the Swedish Democrats think that settlements are reasonable if they are made for refugees who are the subject of resettlement but not for those who seek asylum, who choose to use the universal right of asylum that we have supported. The Swedish democrats do not want to make use of the settlement option. Then I ask myself, Mr President: how do the Swedish Democrats finance the 150 000 that are now in Sweden? Do the Swedish Democrats intend to kick them out? They exist – they are people who are here in Sweden. They come here looking for asylum. Is it basically the right of asylum that the Swedish Democrats want to stop? From our side, Mr President, we have been involved in the use of settlements within the framework of the legal framework used by OECD-Dac to finance the whole – in the first place because we think it is important to safeguard the right to asylum. I cannot see, Mr President, that there is somewhere else in the Swedish Democrats' budget about the funding of people who actually exist in Sweden and are seeking asylum. So I am still curious and want to know how you Swedish democrats finance those people. Do you intend to kick them out of Sweden?
i-de2172d592422bd6-90	Mr President, I would like to All these years we have had a very limited policy on settlements. When we have said in previous budgets that we are going to reduce asylum reception by 90%, it has been calculated to receive about 10 000 asylum seekers. I can explain how we finance this: we do this through Category 8, not through Category 7. That was the answer to that question. However, now that we have such an extremely high level of reception for asylum and also see that the right of asylum is not adapted to this type of large migratory flows, we want instead to strengthen the right of asylum in the first safe country as it is supposed to be. We want to strengthen those countries in neighbouring neighbourhoods that receive refugees, no matter where in the world it is. If Sweden is the first safe country, we will take that responsibility. Then I hope that the international community can help Sweden. For those people for whom it is untenable to stay in the immediate vicinity, we believe that a legal, safe route through resettlement is a much better way to Sweden than to travel in deadly boats across the Mediterranean. The current refugee policy is totally unsustainable; we must all realise that. That is why we want to significantly reduce the number of asylum seekers to Sweden. We have a zero vision in this area, because we want to help in a different way. We do not believe that the current asylum system is sustainable. We want to help through resettlement and assistance in the neighbourhood.
i-de2172d592422bd6-96	Mr President, I would like to We have heard Julia Kronlid try to explain how the Swedish Democrats in their budget will reduce the bills for asylum reception by 90 percent. However, the question put by Kerstin Lundgren just now remains: how are you going to finance the asylum reception? You describe a world where all asylum seekers would remain in the first safe country. That's not how it's going to happen. It is impossible for all asylum seekers to be present in, for example, Italy or any other southern European country. It will require a rather comprehensive policy and management in the EU to allow people to move forward. Then your money won't be enough. Julia Kronlid talks about strengthening the right to asylum in the first safe country. Yeah, that could be a good first solution. However, this will not mean that all asylum seekers can be tried and settled permanently there. It will require a redistribution within the EU. Reasonably, Sweden will also take a great responsibility in such a system to open up to accepting people who flee from war, oppression, famine, natural disasters and all that it can be. How are you going to finance this asylum reception? It's an economic air castle that you paint, Julia Kronlid.
i-de2172d592422bd6-101	Mr President, I would like to Throughout our budget, we have a completely different policy on how to deal with refugee aid. We want to reduce from the current situation, where we have an extremely high asylum reception that we cannot even manage and where people sleep on the street. In principle, we want to reduce it to zero and instead invest in resettlement and aid to the neighbourhood. It is on this basis that we have calculated the total budget that we have presented here in Parliament. We think it is a totally unsustainable situation today, when people have a better chance of getting help by taking the illegal road to Europe than by staying in the UNHCR's hands in the neighbourhood or coming through resettlement. We could do so much more for the neighbourhood. Yes, it may be untenable to stay in the immediate vicinity with the premises that exist right now. However, if everyone were to make much more effort to genuinely assist the neighbourhood with various types of action, from long-term efforts to support the countries to humanitarian aid, the situation would be much better. These are also the signals I have received when I have visited countries in the neighbourhood. When it comes to how to reduce asylum reception in Sweden, we have put forward a fairly detailed basic proposal now that the government came up with the proposal on identity checks. We also have other legal proposals concerning active action programmes for the migration crisis here in Parliament in response to the refugee and migration crisis. So there is to read how we want to deal with this, and I recommend reading. Our budget is based on our view of the reception of refugees and how we want to deal with it. It is not written on the basis of the government's handling and the government's signal policy. Calculations can only be made for the first year. They cannot be done for those who have been here for a long time. That is another way of financing, and so is the government.
i-de2172d592422bd6-108	Mr President, I would like to When you listen to Julia Kronlid you can easily get the impression that Sweden does not give any money to help people who are in the immediate areas of refugee camps. Then you should remember that Sweden is – if I remember correctly – the world's fifth largest humanitarian donor. Everyone can think about how big Sweden is in terms of population, and I think everyone can easily and quickly figure out that we are far from the fifth largest country in the world in terms of population. We therefore take a great responsibility in Sweden for people who are present in the refugee camps and the neighbouring areas that Julia Kronlid and the Swedish Democrats say they are sore about. It is not an argument to say that we could not do more. That's not what this is about. But it is about the Swedish Democrats and Julia Kronlid painting a one-sided picture that there would be a single solution to the situation with people on the run. It's not like that. Politics, as I often say, is about managing the whole. It is not either or; we must do both. We must help people in the refugee camps, today many times in great distress because the humanitarian appeals are chronically underfunded and people are in refugee camps starving. More needs to be done there and, above all, more countries need to do more there. But we also need to deal with the fact that people are running on for various reasons because they simply sometimes have to, for the sake of their own lives. The image that Julia Kronlid and the Swedish Democrats paint that we could limit asylum reception in Sweden down to disappearing low levels is not realistic. I can understand whether the Swedish Democrats think it is desirable for various reasons, but it is not realistic.
i-de2172d592422bd6-112	Mr President, I would like to It is about the fact that we basically think that there needs to be an in-depth discussion within the EU and within the UN on how to deal with the type of refugee flows that we are seeing at the moment. Does Kenneth G Forslund think that it is a sustainable system for people to get through illegal migrant smugglers on dangerous routes across the Mediterranean and then move from country to country in Europe and finally come from Denmark to seek asylum in Sweden? I do not think it is a sustainable system. It is not humane, and it is not legally certain in any way. We need to have a fundamental discussion on this, and that is what the Swedish Democrats want to do. Sweden has taken an immensely greater responsibility than other countries. If we now want a more even distribution in Europe, we must say a stop somewhere, and I think we have reached that limit now. It doesn't tell us how to deal with it in the long term. Kenneth G Forslund talks about doing both. We also want to receive people in Sweden through resettlement. It's legal, it's safe and it helps the most vulnerable. We just have a slightly different focus. We spend about 800 million in the aid budget on reception in Sweden and 9 billion on international refugee aid. The government is doing the opposite – you want to spend about 8 billion on refugee reception in Sweden, and you have said that you want to strengthen refugee assistance internationally by 800 million. This is a completely reversed priority from the Swedish Democrats compared to the government.
i-de2172d592422bd6-116	Mr President, I would like to In 15 years, poverty has halved. Eight goals have helped. In 15 years' time, poverty will have been eradicated, now with the help of 17 goals. The Center Party sees it as self-evident that Sweden should assist effectively and sustainably to enforce human rights. One per cent of GDP, according to the new calculation model, is our target for aid. We also have a goal, Mr President, that by 2030 areas and countries will be independent of aid. It is important that countries' economies become self-sustaining and that everyone has the opportunity to decide in their part of the world. It is also about human rights. Mr President, I would like to When human rights are oppressed, there is no sustainable future. We have seen this, and we now see it in Burundi, which I fear to follow. Where the climate is not secured, human rights will not be secured, but drowned. We have met this when we talk, for example, to the Marshall Islands and other countries threatened by a rising water surface. The result of the alliance government can be seen in part in the budget proposal submitted by the government. We have a picture from 2014 that can be followed. It was the last year of alliance. That was 42.8 billion for aid. 1.1% of the then calculation of BNI was for aid. It was the eighth year in a row. 8.3 million girls were given access to education. 1 million women had access to financial services. 12 million girls and boys were given the opportunity for sex education – not least important in a world that has difficulty dealing with SRHR. 230 000 people in the health sector were trained on gender-based violence. It is also important, because we know that in many of the conflicts and crises we see where the human rights of women and girls are trampled on particularly heavily, women and girls are suffering so badly in the world. It was a budget that had priority on democracy and human rights, gender equality and climate and the environment. I note that the government's budget states that environmental and climate issues have been high on the agenda. That is, of course, important. The Center Party wants to ensure that Swedish aid also supports freedom fighters in the future, that we strengthen freedom of expression and improve opportunities for poor people to benefit from economic growth through access to education, health care and more and better jobs. It's about working all over the field and strengthening entrepreneurship and structures that make it possible to have a functioning society. I am pleased that the government is now showing support for what we fought for and got quite a lot of criticism for, namely continued support for Swedfund. Swedfund has made a trip, and it is important that they continue to do a job to develop entrepreneurship even where they are tougher conditions. I think it is important that we continue to work with trade as a tool for developing countries and people's opportunities. We want fair trade, but also support for those countries that are in difficulties. We point from the Center Party to the importance of not forgetting the countryside. In the countryside there are many of the women who wear the tough load. It is important that these women have the opportunity and opportunity to develop their ownership and conditions. This provides opportunities for whole societies to grow. We also point to antibiotics and other issues that we raise in this context. Through ambitious support in crisis and conflict, we save lives and alleviate distress. It is clearly important for us to continue to lift. We will help to improve the environment, limit climate impact and support the sustainable use of natural resources. We are pleased with the support for the Green Fund, which is quite large anyway. This is something that the Center Party has fought for from the start to ensure that the Green Fund receives the funding promised. It's important. On the part of the Center Party, we are also prepared to seek opportunities – although it is currently difficult – to provide aid to the Green Fund beyond the usual aid budget. The UN's superyear is about to end. We have reason to rejoice that we have completed two important tasks globally: we have secured sustainable development goals, new global goals, which are a brand new architecture, and we have also secured a climate agreement in Paris on Saturday. This has created a new agenda for global development. Mr President, I would like to I hope that Sweden does not get caught up in old architecture. On the part of the Center Party, we have found it important to make a new start now and not just go into the restoration track and the old rhetoric. We want to take up the new architecture and the new opportunities and work for a parliamentary investigation to renew the PGU. We need a policy of global development, but on the basis of new conditions. Then it is not enough to listen with civil society and international actors. We must have a parliamentary consensus. Otherwise, we risk getting a new forest out of different instruments that are not what we need. Mr President, I would like to A sustainable world is possible. I am in favour of reservation 6.
i-de2172d592422bd6-130	Mr President, I would like to Two weeks ago, men and women went to the polls in Burkina Faso. Far from the media light and the major headlines, one of the world's absolutely poorest countries has undergone an impressive and inspiring change over the past year. After 55 years of independence, Burkina Faso held his first truly democratic election. The Burkina Islands have again shown us that there is no stronger force than women and men who join together for change. A year ago, extensive popular protests forced the authoritarian President of the country, Blaise Compaoré, to resign after 27 years in power, and then prevented attempts by both the old elite and the military to take power in the country. The election in Burkina Faso also shows that Swedish development cooperation makes a difference. Sweden is in place with development cooperation in Burkina Faso since 2001. Sweden's aid to Burkina Faso has never been great, but we have been the leading donor when it comes to democracy, human rights and gender equality. When the voters came to the polling station two weeks ago, they met with election instructions posters with Swedish flags. Inside the polling stations, the elections were monitored, among other things, by civil society election observers organised by the organisation Codel, which has received support from Swedish Diakonia. For a long time it seemed that Sweden would not be in place during this revolution of democracy. For a long time, we risked betraying the democracy activists in Burkina Faso. In 2012, Gunilla Carlsson, then Minister for Development, announced that Sweden's aid to Burkina Faso would be phased out. I am pleased that last autumn the Left Party and the Government agreed to suspend the phasing-out and continue with long-term development cooperation with Burkina Faso. Now that the government is to develop a new strategy for cooperation with Burkina Faso, I hope that it will raise the level of ambition and increase Sweden's support for democratisation, gender equality and sustainable development. Mr President, I would like to Why, then, do I use so much of my speech to talk about Burkina Faso? Because Burkina Faso says something important about our aid. If Swedish aid is to contribute to democratisation, gender equality and sustainable development, it must be long-term. If we want Sweden to be in place in the toughest environments and work with the toughest challenges, we can not only pursue short-term measurable results. If Sweden is to contribute to change, it must be able to trust Sweden. We must be predictable and consistent. Democracy activists and newly elected political leaders in Burkina must know that Sweden is keeping its promises and that we will be there. But Burkina Faso also shows why aid is important. In 2014, the Swedish aid to Burkina amounted to 136 million. It is a small sum in a large budget, but it is a sum that has contributed to major changes. Every crown we set aside in aid is a crown that can change if it is used properly. That is why it is so important for us in the Left Party to safeguard the 1% target and high quality aid. I would therefore like to support our reservation 7 on the direction of aid. Mr President, I would like to There are many things that I, as a left-wing party, can be proud of in the budget that is now on Parliament's table. It is important to invest in welfare, in reducing income differentials between men and women, in housing construction and in sustainable development in our own country as well. I am also proud that the government and the Left Party were able to present an extra investment of SEK 2 billion on the aid already this year, 2015. This means an important strengthening of both the humanitarian work and the long-term Swedish development cooperation. But there are also parts of the budget with which I am less satisfied. In the budget that is now on Parliament's table, SEK 8.2 billion of the aid is used to finance refugee reception in Sweden. We in the Left Party are concerned about the government's signals during the autumn. First of all, there was talk of halving aid. Now we are talking about a 30% ceiling for settlements. This means that Sweden still consolidates its position as a European champion in settlements. These are discussions that have caused concern among the actors of aid, and I also believe that this has damaged Sweden's international credibility. After all, our country has a choice. There are other ways of financing the reception of refugees. Instead of cutting aid, we could start to phase out the RUT deduction, introduce a wealth tax and remove the reduced restaurant VAT. There is no lack of money in our country. Sweden spends more than SEK 30 billion each year on interest deductions. Ekerö municipality outside Stockholm receives as much interest deduction as Burkina Faso receives in aid. However, while the government has discussed further cuts in aid in the autumn, it does not want to touch on the interest rebate. It is difficult to understand the logic of this. The Left Party defends a humane refugee policy and Swedish aid. We are convinced that we can afford to offer both a refuge for those fleeing the war and a high level of assistance of high quality. That is why we would have liked to see a clear review of the calculation model for settlements, and we would have liked to see significantly lower settlements. I can assure you that we will continue to work for the Left Party.
i-de2172d592422bd6-143	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the Liberals' reservation to be approved. What role will Sweden play in our changing world? It is a world in which freedom backs, for the ninth year in a row, a world in which more people experience democratic setbacks than progress and a world that agrees on sustainability goals but at the same time does not speak out clearly about the right to free elections. How is a mother supposed to influence maternal care if she never gets to vote? How can a father influence his children's schooling if he can't influence the school's powers? How can the environment be better if citizens cannot vote away politicians who ignore emissions? It is precisely as a watchdog for democracy that Sweden should make a difference, because that is the area that we are best at. Dictatorships such as China or authoritarian Russia can build roads, but they will never drive democracy and human rights. Today, over 2.5 billion people live in countries that do not respect fundamental rights and freedoms. 90 countries are estimated to be non-free. A further 1.8 billion people live in 60 partially non-free states. There will never be democracy without democrats on the ground. Therefore, Sweden's aid and foreign policy will support democratisation processes and individual democracy activists. We in the Liberals propose in our draft budget a democratic boost in Swedish aid. Among other things, we want to restore the Alliance's democracy billions, so that it will be intact again. We also want to earmark aid money for democratic grants for activists who want to study in our country and also to set up an aid programme for those individuals who are at the heart of a transition from dictatorship to democracy in the recipient countries. Therefore, Sweden's single biggest priority in aid must be democracy. Unfortunately, that is not the case today. In the non-free countries, women suffer particularly badly. We Liberals have long been pushing the very issue of women's and girls' rights as the centre of a feminist foreign policy. There is no contradiction in including other perspectives as well. It is about a clear perspective on rights, for girls and women of course the right to free abortion, the right to education and more. Nor should we forget a clear LGBTQ perspective in aid and foreign policy. There should be a thousand and a way of being a woman and a thousand and a way of being a man in our world today. Nor can it be seen, for example, that LGBT people's rights are a special interest, but it is also a broad commitment to democracy and human rights. The laws that in many countries prohibit, for example, the formation of opinion on LGBTQ issues or prevent LGBTQ organisations from working constitute serious restrictions on freedom of expression and association. That is why we regret that the Red-Green Government has not given LGBTQ further priority to democracy aid. We Liberals believe that this support needs to be stepped up gradually in a long-term and substantial increase within the aid framework that we ourselves propose. To conclude, Mr President: a few days ago, I and some Members of Parliament visited Jordan. In the middle of the dunes in a demilitarised zone in northeastern Jordan on the border with Syria is currently one of the world's largest hells. For months, 12 000 women and children in particular have been trapped in a no man's land without shade, water and vegetation. Children are dying of malnutrition right now. Women give birth without help in the heat of the desert. Despaired international aid organizations such as the Red Cross may occasionally bring in food, but they must not work permanently even with medical help for dying children. They must not set up proper tents to protect themselves from the sun or take the most vulnerable people across the border into the refugee camps that we visited in Jordan, such as Azraq. There are no journalists who have reported from there, but we must rely on stories from relief organisations and individual refugees who have managed to cross the border or back to Syria or the satellite images that are beginning to spread. The refugees are fleeing the oil barrel bombs of the cruel Asad regime. They are fleeing the bestial Islamic terror from Daish, the Islamic State, and they are now also fleeing the Russian, intensified bombings. Unless the outside world reacts, the name Rukban may be added to history as one of the places that posterity associated with both terror and failure for humanity. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to appeal to the Minister for Development and the Swedish Government to press the Jordanian Government to take refugees across the border. Otherwise, we may have tens of thousands of dead people in the near future.
i-de2172d592422bd6-158	Mr President, I would like to There is much in Birgitta Ohlsson's speech that I agree with. This concerns the issues relating to women's rights and LGBT people's rights, but also the situation of refugees in Jordan. I would also like to endorse the appeal that is now being made to the Minister for Development. I took part in the same trip as Birgitta Ohlsson and saw the same enormous challenges in Jordan. But then I read the Liberals' budget motion, and then I see a lot more question marks. There I note that the Liberals are now proposing to reduce Swedish support for the Green Climate Fund by SEK 557 million next year. This is done to finance other things in the budget. We all make choices and priorities, and the Liberals choose to give priority to the abolition of defence taxes, the extension of RUT deductions and the increase in defence expenditure – and do so at the expense of the Green Climate Fund. In fact, I find it a little strange, because I followed the Liberals' statement during the past weekend about the Paris Summit. Then the Liberals stood and said that it was too little of the government, that it was too slow and had not taken enough initiatives. But then they come home and advocate that Sweden's international climate action should reduce by half a billion SEK. I'm not really getting it together, Birgitta Ohlsson. How is it that the Liberals want to reduce support to the Green Climate Fund by SEK 557 million?
i-de2172d592422bd6-162	Mr President, I would like to I would just like to point out first that the Liberals are SEK 100 million a year above the Government's budget, unlike, for example, the Government's Left Party support party. In any case, we have chosen to give priority to having greater generosity. Olof Palme once said that politics is to want. But politics is also a choice. There we have chosen something different. We have – in the most difficult of difficult times the world is experiencing right now, in a world of 60 million refugees, in a world where 85% of refugees are in the poorest countries – chosen to spend more money than, for example, the Left Party and the Red Green Government on the UN HCR, the important refugee work, which I and Hans Linde saw in place, among other places, in the refugee camp in Jordanian Azraq last week. As regards the situation of refugees – not least the work done by Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey – we also believe that in the future budget we will need to give this even more priority. I also believe that we will have to provide, not least, Lebanon and Jordan with similar support that Turkey has received to back up even more. In this difficult situation, we have chosen not only to increase support for the UNHCR in our budget. We have also chosen to invest in democracy and human rights. That is what I spoke about in my speech: LGBT people's rights, women's rights. We have chosen to put it forward, not to spend as much money on the Green Climate Fund and the environment. As I said, politics is to want, but it is also to choose. We've chosen a little different from the government.
i-de2172d592422bd6-168	Mr President, I would like to Yes, politics is choice. I described earlier the choices made by the Left Party. We prioritise high Swedish aid over, for example, RUT deductions and interest rebates. It's our choice. The Liberals obviously make a different choice. It can also be noted that, together with the government, we chose to present only ten days ago a major effort on aid, 2 billion extra this year, including earmarked for UNHCR and other actors working on humanitarian issues. The problem with the Liberals' budget exercise is to put the long-term work on climate action and climate finance against the short-term humanitarian work. I think that is a very dangerous choice to make. We are not engaged in aid to prevent refugee disasters and to prevent people from fleeing. But it is usually a positive effect of our aid, that people can stay in their villages, grow their land, draw water from their well, survive in the areas where they have lived for a long time. We see today that climate change is already here and that it creates flows of refugees, wars and disasters. For example, many have pointed to the Darfur conflict, which is a conflict in which I know that Birgitta Ohlsson was strongly involved, as a conflict in which climate change was a major contributor to the size of the conflict. Increased competition for water and natural resources helped to screw up an already serious situation. It is therefore strange when, as the Liberals do, humanitarian aid is being put in place to combat climate action here and now. It is perhaps a way to get a budget for 2016 and be able to finance both abolished military tax and defence expenditure. However, I believe that it is a budget that will, in the long term, create far greater flows of refugees than those we are already seeing today.
i-de2172d592422bd6-173	Mr President, I would like to If Hans Linde opposed an aid budget where there were large sums of money, the Left Party would certainly not be involved in supporting the government's budget at all. It would also have been a choice if one wanted to stand up for another one hundred percent. But you have not made that choice, I can only tell you that. I am pleased that Mr Linde began his speech by talking about Burkina Faso. It is gratifying that democracy also reaches countries that have lived under great oppression for many years. But then it is also quite interesting that the Left Party has not been involved in restoring the high level of support for democracy that actually existed in the Alliance's budgets before. The billion that we earmarked and the government has reduced is not in this way. I'm sorry about that. With regard to support for democracy, human rights, the rule of law and other things, I also believe that it must be as long-term as environmental efforts. In this budget, we have made a choice to put refugees in focus and to put democracy, free elections and more at the centre. It was our choice this time. We were forced to do so because of the vulnerable situation that is right now.
i-de2172d592422bd6-178	Mr President, I would like to I have to start by commenting that Birgitta Ohlsson criticised Hans Linde for having made a choice. But I would like to say that the Liberals have also made a choice to support the government's budget. The Liberals also had an opportunity to do as the Swedish Democrats, i.e. to vote for the Moderates' budget in the second place. The Alliance would also have been able to present a common budget which could have led to the government's budget. Instead, the Liberals chose to support this government's budget. It's a choice you've made. Now I come to my question. Birgitta Ohlsson talks a lot about supporting democracy and human rights development, and she says that many people live where such things are flawed. One such area is the West Bank and Gaza and the Palestinian territories where there is little to freedom of expression. There have been no free elections, and there are also other major shortcomings. There, a hatred of Jews is cultivated in school magazines sponsored by the Palestinian Authority. There is also a hatred of Jews, and there is a very high level of anti-Semitism on television. Terrorist acts are also rewarded. If anyone has committed acts of terror to kill Israelis, this person is rewarded through the Palestinian Authority. Recently, Jan Björklund, your party leader, has been rather critical of Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström's statements on Israel and has tried to appear to be supporting Israel. But why is it that the Liberals want to continue to support unconditional aid to the Palestinian Authority, which actually indirectly contributes to terrorism and anti-Semitism? I think that the words of the Liberals in which you criticise Mrs Wallström in this regard are quite empty when you cannot in any way support the criticism that the Swedish Democrats have in this report. Instead, the only answer from you is that you do not share our picture. So are there no problems at all?
i-de2172d592422bd6-181	Mr President, I would like to With all due respect, I belong to a party that was the first party in Western Europe to demand a two-state solution between Israel and Palestine, not least through the then party leader Per Ahlmark. I think he is one of Sweden's most famous politicians when it comes to standing up for Israel's right to democracy. We think it goes without saying that a two-state solution – an Israeli state and a Palestinian state side by side. But it should not be a Palestinian state on the ruins of the state of Israel. There is no party here – least of all the Liberals – that you, Julia Kronlid, can accuse of not standing up for Israel's right to exist. We have also pointed out in the years since 2002 when I have been in Parliament, but also for several decades before, the deviations that exist in terms of support for the Palestinian Authority and the anti-Semitism that often permeates it. There you have to be clear and clear. You can follow that, not least if you have followed the interpellation debates that we have had in this House recently. We have a very clear policy there. But this does not mean turning your back on the Palestinian people. Should Sweden withdraw its support, for example, to countries such as Jordan, Lebanon and other countries, which for decades have taken a great responsibility to receive Palestinian refugees, I think we would be witnessing a huge human disaster. On the contrary, you have to keep working. I would also like, with the address also to the Red-Green Government, for human rights activists who are present in Gaza, for example, and who dare to resist Hamas's Islamic reign of terror, to receive much greater earmarked support. There we must find clearer political solutions. But I don't share the picture Julia Kronlid is trying to paint here. Our support for the state of Israel, as a liberal and open democracy, is very important. But it does not have to be set against a two-state solution or against supporting the good forces that still exist on the other side.
i-de2172d592422bd6-189	Mr President, I would like to If the Liberals now want to stand for an Israeli-friendly policy, a little interpellational debate, debate articles and criticism of the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the media are not enough. These must be concrete political decisions. What we are saying about aid to the Palestinian Authority is not about turning your back on the people. We would like to see humanitarian aid maintained, as well as some other type of aid through civil society. But, as Birgitta Ohlsson says, we must be clear about the condition of aid to the Palestinian Authority. We are not saying that no matter what is to be decommissioned. We say that certain conditions must be imposed. Strong measures must be taken to counter anti-Semitism. Terrorism should not be rewarded – end of story. We must say that wage payments to terrorists must stop if they are to receive Swedish aid, because we do not accept this. Why can the Liberals not put such conditions in place and support a reservation about these conditions being imposed on aid? If we really want to support democratic development in the Palestinian territories with respect for human rights, we must also be able to make certain fundamental demands. With regard to Jordan and Lebanon, the Swedish Democrats have the absolute highest allocation of EUR 9 billion for refugee aid in the immediate region, which will also benefit Jordan and Lebanon. It is great that the Liberals want to increase the funding for UNHCR to 500 million. Unfortunately, however, that is not enough, we believe. I would like to ask the following question: what is it that makes the Liberals unable to support a reservation that actually states that we want to set clear conditions for aid to the Palestinian Authority? The Liberals, too, cannot agree in other contexts, such as the EU Council, that Hamas must be disarmed if we are to break the blockade. Interpellation debates and statements in the media are not enough. There must also be concrete policy here in Parliament, where we take the decisions.
i-de2172d592422bd6-195	Mr President, I would like to The liberals of a concrete policy – we did so even when we were in the alliance government for years – as clear defenders of the state of Israel's right to exist as a strong democracy. I would also like to remind you that, about a year ago, the Red Green Government recognised the state of Palestine. We were also very sceptical about this for a number of reasons. One was that we thought it was a hasty decision. One of the main demands there was, of course, that on 26 January 2016 it was ten years ago that the Palestinian people were able to vote in elections. We think it would have been useful to call for new democratic and fair elections, according to international observers, before proceeding with this process. It was a sharp and clear mark in which, I would say, we were the party in the Sver ige Parliament that was most vocal and most clear on that front. Even in the years that we spent in the alliance government and after that, we have been clear about making demands on aid to Palestine, as is being done to any other government or organisation. That must be a very clear message on that front. To conclude, I should like to mention another point briefly. I noted that Julia Kronlid spoke in her speech about a zero vision of refugees. I think we would all like to sign that. But as I understand it, you, Julia Kronlid, meant a zero vision of refugees in our part of the world. It's kind of like saying that tomorrow we're going to end all wars, believe that Asad's oil barrel bombs stop and that all people can be helped in the immediate region. That is not the case. What brings together the other seven parties in this Parliament is that we do not think it is about one excluding the other. We believe that we can help on the ground in a clear way and that we can support countries such as Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon and UN organisations. But we also think it is important to take a great deal of responsibility at home too. That is what separates the other seven parties from the Swedish Democrats. The rest of us believe that a decent refugee policy is also about actually taking responsibility at home.
i-de2172d592422bd6-200	Mr President, I would like to All people have the same value, and we all have a responsibility for each other. It is fundamental to Christian-Democratic ideology. From this comes a moral responsibility to work to destroy poverty and oppression. When the UN Millennium Development Goals are coming to an end, we can see that developments are moving in the right direction. The goal of halving world poverty has been achieved. But in a world where 18,000 children under the age of five die every day and where 800 women a day die in connection with pregnancy or childbirth, we cannot settle down. Nor can we settle down in a world in which human rights and freedoms, not least freedom of religion, remain a luxury in many places for only a few. For every child who does not have to go hungry, for every woman who gets a job, for every man who is allowed to think, speak and believe freely, the greater the chances of development. Development, poverty reduction and greater respect for human rights are interrelated. Sweden must have an ambitious development policy, and this requires generous and effective aid to be delivered. Mr President, I would like to The priorities we consider necessary in aid are set out in reservation 9 under the heading of development policy, paragraph 4. I request the approval of reservation 9. However, the government's priorities are rather unclear. We have therefore pointed out in a separate opinion the problematic fact that the government has not given sufficiently clear or sustainable information on what applies in the 2016 development budget. How do the tallys go through? What is the transition to meet the urgent humanitarian needs of Syria and its immediate neighbourhoods? It has been too vague, and they have come mainly via the media. Mr President, I would like to Sweden will actively contribute to the achievement of the 17 new development goals. The Government has worked for gender equality, the environment and climate, employment and good working conditions. That is excellent, but we Christian Democrats regret that it has not been possible to push forward in order to achieve a clear objective of democracy. Strengthening democracy and human rights and freedoms must always be a central objective for Sweden, we believe. Under the alliance government, Sweden pushed for tough demands on democracy and human rights to be placed in Cuba before the EU's negotiations with the country. If the Red-Green Government turns from that line, the conditions of strength in the EU are in danger of changing and a more evasive line is gaining ground. That would be unfortunate. In addition, there is now a unique opportunity to push forward democratic reforms in Cuba regarding the EU and the United States to join negotiations, for which Sweden should vigorously act. Neighborhood with the EU is Europe's last dictatorship, Belarus, where oppositionists are harassed by the police, imprisoned or disappear without trace. Several civil society organisations support vulnerable democracy activists in repressive states. Sweden must increase its efforts here, I mean. At all, civil society has an inalienable importance and must be taken advantage of in aid policy. A vital civil society provides important actors in developing countries. Individual organisations are irreplaceable as implementers of Swedish state aid, and they give us as individuals an opportunity to contribute to better development in the world. When the world is on fire, there is no indifference, and the efforts of civil society are a tangible expression of this. We shall safeguard the generous attitude of Swedes towards having a high level of state aid, but every crown of suffering via gifts is also important. With rare tone deafness, however, the government abolishes the tax reduction for gifts to relief organizations so that there is less money for the poor, fleeing and oppressed. It's a deviant. Mr President, I would like to In a troubled world, increased humanitarian needs must be reflected in Sweden's aid priorities. When so many people are on the run from hideous terror and violent regimes, great humanitarian efforts are needed for those fellows who are on the run in their own home country or in their neighbourhood, alongside Sweden to make great efforts to receive people on the run who come to us. The neighbouring countries of the war-affected countries take enormous responsibility but cannot do it on their own. Support to Syria's neighbouring countries must now be given higher priority. The multilateral support that Sweden provides to a wide range of UN agencies should be brought together to a greater extent among those agencies that have the greatest activity among refugees and which work with children's rights, such as UNHCR, World Food Programme and UNICEF. Mr President, I would like to The world has a new climate agreement. Efforts are now needed internationally, which must also be reflected in the aid budget. It is therefore a good thing that the government continues to build on the support for the Green Climate Fund that the Alliance Government started with. The wealthier countries need to give priority to funding for the Fund in order to achieve its objectives. Finally, the Paris Agreement offers hope that we can achieve a great deal as individuals, as companies, as organisations, as countries and together globally. It is a force that can also be used to trade oppression for peace, poverty for development and oppression for freedom.
i-de2172d592422bd6-213	Mr President, I would like to Jakob Forssmed called for clear answers from the government parties. I would like to get some clear information on the Christian Democrats' aid policy. I spent my train trip from Gothenburg here this morning reading, among other things, the Christian Democrats' budget motion for 2016, and there are some things I have quite a lot of question marks around after reading it. The Christian Democrats describe Sweden's support to the United Nations as being inefficient and sprawling. They write that Sweden is spreading the support to a very large number of organisations within the UN system, and they call for focus on Swedish support within the UN. Then one wonders a little which UN agencies it is the Christian Democrats want Sweden to phase out its support to. That must be the case – if we are to focus it must mean that there is something we should leave and withdraw our support from. It would be interesting to have it clarified by the Christian Democrats. I want a clear message, please. The second question I have is that you write in your budget motion that you are opposed to your renewed bilateral cooperation with Latin America. What bilateral cooperation in Latin America has the government resumed? As I know, there is one example, namely Bolivia, where it has chosen to end a phase-out and extend cooperation. However, I am not aware of any reopened bilateral cooperation in Latin America. Perhaps Jakob Forssmed can tell us what kind of renewed bilateral cooperation in Latin America the Christian Democrats are opposed to.
i-de2172d592422bd6-216	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Linde; it is uplifting in many ways that he reads the Christian Democratic aid policy. I think there is a lot of inspiration for Hans Linde to draw there, not least in the fight for democracy around the world. That is a very clear priority for us Christian Democrats. Hans Linde asked a few questions. I made it clear that we believe that, in terms of support for the UN agencies at the moment, we need to give priority to UNHCR, the World Food Programme and, of course, the work on refugees, which the UN is in the middle of. I also believe that Mr Linde is aware that the evaluations carried out by various UN agencies have shown that not everyone is working as well. This should have consequences when Sweden constantly evaluates and redistributes its resources. Does Hans Linde mean that this should be once and for all given? Shall we continue with what we have always done when the world changes? When organisations do not live up to the demands of transparency, transparency, efficiency and other things we put forward, we need to reconsider. Then you have to reconsider, and then you have to be prepared to move money away from those UN organisations that function worse to those where more effort is needed right now. World Food Programme screams for additional resources. Then we think it is urgent to gather together, focus and ensure that we achieve more aid in countries where we actually have a situation where refugees turn from refugee camps and sometimes try to get back to the countries from which they have fled because conditions have become so miserable. It is in this light that we are proposing an increased concentration of funds on the UN agencies.
i-de2172d592422bd6-220	Mr President, I would like to Anyone who listened to my speech heard me spend about half the time talking about the progress of democracy in Burkina Faso. Sweden is in place and supports the demok rati successes in Burkina Faso, thanks to the fact that the Left Party and the government together tore up the phase-out initiated by the former bourgeois government. Had Jakob Forssmed's party had the power to decide, we would not have been there to support one of the most important democratic revolutions we have seen in the last year. So perhaps we can think about democratic credibility in this discussion. When it comes to the UN agencies, I still wonder. There's talk of concentration, but who are we supposed to leave? It is easy to talk about what to prioritise, but what should we prioritise down? I would like a clearer answer from Jakob Forssmed. I also believe that we need to understand the crisis, such as Jordan, Turkey and Lebanon. It is no longer just an acute humanitarian crisis, but it is entering its third or fourth year of refugee disaster. This means that you no longer only need humanitarian actors, but you also need people and organisations that work with long-term development work. Not only do we need to distribute food packages, but we also need to ensure that agriculture is developed. Not only do you have to drive in tanks with water, but you also need to drill wells. That's what reality looks like. The conflict you are painting between development work and humanitarian action does not exist. There are several of us here who were in Jordan as late as last week. There we saw actors now stepping in, such as UNDP, UNFPA and UN Women, doing absolutely crucial work. That is why the question remains: which UN agencies do the Christian Democrats want Sweden to cut its support for? And again to the question of Latin America: what kind of renewed bilateral cooperation are you opposed to?
i-de2172d592422bd6-225	Mr President, I would like to If it is understood that the Christian Democrats do not represent long-term development cooperation, we have expressed ourselves very badly. That is not our view. Mr Linde is absolutely right that long-term sustainable development and aid cooperation is needed, and that is one of the foundations that our party really wants to provide. But that does not mean that in every situation we prioritise exactly the same as the Left Party. Here we say that we see a great need to give priority to further humanitarian efforts, further efforts in these neighbourhoods where, as Hans Linde says, they live in appalling conditions. I am also aware that long-term work is needed in these situations, that it is not just about handing out food packages but, not least, about educational efforts so that people do not lose out on an important schooling that could lay the foundations for a better life for children and young people. Of course I am aware of this. But we say: Yes, we may need to concentrate support. I cannot say whether we should leave any organisation, but there are also UN organisations that do not work well enough. Sweden has for a long time been a nail in their eyes but still has not managed to reform them fully. It may be reasonable to reduce aid to such organisations and to increase them to those whom I have mentioned before.
i-5jyM39nP3KdgCRpbqAjUxK	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to call for the motion for a decision of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to be approved in Report No 2 under Category 7. The red-green government continues its ambition to reach the new 1% target. Based on the fact that the system of national accounts and bni-accounting was revised in September 2014, Sweden, and certainly also a number of other countries, was no longer at the same level as it had been said to do. In order to reach the new level of the 1% target, we will increase aid in 2016. We will reach 0.98% of the new level, and according to the old standard it is a question of reaching 1.02%. In total, Mr President, Sweden is spending SEK 43.4 billion in aid. That is SEK 886 million more than the previous year. One thing I would like to point out in particular is what we are investing in, which has been up to before in the debate here, and it is a capital injection to Swedfund of SEK 400 million. We Social Democrats have previously been critical of the bourgeois governments that made capital injections to Swedfund during the time when the organization received much criticism for shortcomings in its activities. We now see that these shortcomings have been corrected. A wide range of measures have been taken, many of them by the former bourgeois government but also by the leadership of Swedfund. We believe today that it is reasonable and justified to increase the capital of Swedfund, simply so that they can continue their activities aimed at creating jobs for people in the countries currently living in great poverty. Job creation, Mr President, is, in our view, the basis for development. If people have a job and an income, they have the opportunity to support themselves and survive. It is through Swedish aid and the world's combined aid that we can alleviate the acute need but also create long-term sustainable development that allows people to support themselves, can live in democracy and can live in a reality of sustainable development – a society that works. This is what Swedish aid should contribute to, this long-term development that ultimately aims to prevent people from living in need and from suffering from natural disasters and other things. In the event of such an event, they shall have the opportunity to deal with those challenges in their societies. Of course, we must also have solidarity in the world in the future, that we can help each other when the unforeseen happens. This is also true for Sweden. We may also need help at times when something unforeseen happens. But there must be an inherent strength in every society so that you can cope with the first emergency situation yourself. That is the resilience, and the goal must be for all countries to have such a resilience of their own. Sweden is one of four five countries that have a very high ambition in terms of aid, an ambition shared by seven parties in this Parliament in the form of the 1% target. This is a goal decided by the Swedish Parliament after a long debate back in 1968. The focus was to reach the one-percent target in 1974, but due to the oil crisis it took until 1975 before Sweden reached it. Unfortunately, after 40 years, we are still a relatively unique country in the world in keeping with the 1% level. We have kept that level for 27 of the last 40 years, both with social democraticly led governments and with bourgeois governments. Sweden is making a big and important effort, and we will continue to do so. However, it would be desirable for more countries at least to meet the UN's 0.7 % target for the provision of aid or, even better, to set 1 %. Mr President, I would like to To conclude, I would like to thank officials, aid workers, NGOs, all the people in our country who, in the course of the year and perhaps above all in the coming days, like Christmas, will make a contribution to various fundraisers. Thank you all, no matter what effort and task! Together we work long-term for sustainable global development. That's how we can build a better world.
i-de2172d592422bd6-241	Mr President, I would like to The two government parties, the Social Democrats and the Environmental Party, have an agreement internally in the government that in 2016 a maximum of 30 per cent of Swedish aid can be counted off for refugee reception in Sweden. Possibly, aid actors and beneficiaries would appreciate a little longer-term commitments, such as the fact that the Red Green Government hopes to reach the 1% target during this term of office. What is the limit for the estimates in the budget for 2017 and beyond?
i-de2172d592422bd6-243	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Sofia Arkelsten, for the question and also for a correct description of how it has actually been formulated! There is an agreement for the next financial year 2016 on a ceiling of 30%; that is quite right. In the long term, the government wants to reach the 1% target for aid, and I am absolutely convinced that we will do so too. On the other hand, it is impossible to honestly answer the question of how large the settlements will be in 2017 and 2018. It will be determined by how many people are seeking asylum. There is no self-interest in having high bills. In the budget submitted and in this year's budget, there were estimates of around 20%, and we had the ambition to try to reduce them over time. Now reality has given us a different situation. We have then chosen to limit them by having this roof construction of 30%. In the long term, we will reach the 1% target according to the new basis of calculation. According to the old one, we are already above 1%.
i-de2172d592422bd6-248	Mr President, I would like to In order to meet the budget with estimated settlements, the Government announced to the Foreign Affairs Committee that this will be dealt with by postponing a number of payments. It concerns about 4 billion. The following week there was information that about 2 billion would be brought forward and ended up on this page New Year's Eve. Since 2 billion is quite a lot of money, could they not have been included in the budget or in the extra budget presented to Parliament on 12 November? Neither the 2 nor the 4 billion moved back and forth by the red-green parties were included in the draft budget.
i-de2172d592422bd6-251	Mr President, I would like to I am in favour of Parliament receiving as much information and documentation as possible so that we can make wise and informed decisions. In this case, we have said from the government parties that, by the latest in our amending budget, proposals will be made as to how the asylum reception settlements may change. That's where we put a roof. In terms of forwarding payments, it is money that comes from the 2016 aid budget but that is previously paid out on the basis of the expenditure ceilings in the state budget. This is national consolidated financial statements in the higher school, we can safely note. What is important is that it is money within the aid budget that is used for what they are to be used for, namely for development and democracy, and for helping poor people.
i-de2172d592422bd6-256	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Kenneth G. Forslund how freedom of religion is involved in the design of Swedish development cooperation and what concrete measures the government is taking to combat pressure against religious minorities.
i-de2172d592422bd6-257	Mr President, I would like to This rather detailed question gives me the impression that something has caught Jakob Forssmed's eye in particular in the budget. Or perhaps it is something he would like to put a special eye on in the budget that he has not been able to find. For the Social Democrats and the Red-Green Government, freedom of religion and respect for people's religious beliefs are, of course, as well as for their political perception and freedom of expression. It is also essential that we do not give help to people based on their religious affiliation. We should not exclude groups because they have a certain religious affiliation. It's important. I know that there is a party here in Parliament – not Jakob Forssmeds – that sometimes hangs out with such ideas. More specifically, I cannot answer the question. But I have a feeling, as I said, that Jakob Forssmed has a supplementary question.
i-de2172d592422bd6-261	Mr President, I would like to Actually, I don't. It is interesting that Kenneth G Forslund is looking into my brain to figure out what the problem is. It's a little talking. We live in a secular land. We have not always had this kind of problem to contend with in the area of freedom of religion. But I think it is necessary if we are to understand the world, what oppression looks like and how people suffer oppression that we also understand this dimension. When I worked in the Government Office, I felt that there was a weakness and a lack of analysis of the role of religion in people's lives, of how churches and other religious communities in the world function, of the networks that exist and of the oppression that affects many religious groups. Even the Left Party has recently noted that this oppression is more widespread than it has been for a long time. I think that this is lacking in the government's analysis, in the aid policy tools used and in the measures it develops – or in the lack of action – to deal with this. The UN's new agenda for sustainable development does not explicitly mention freedom of religion. It shows that it is still a problem to talk about this as an important human right. We believe that new country strategies should always include an analysis of the situation of freedom of religion and belief and that when we start work on a new human rights strategy, the issue of freedom of religion is also clearly and specifically addressed. It would be good if Kenneth G. Forslund could confirm that the government is prepared to do so.
i-de2172d592422bd6-269	Mr President, I would like to I thank Jakob Forssmed for the questions. It is true that Sweden is a secularised society where there is a far-reaching freedom of religion. I salute it and think it is an example. It is against this background that we should pursue our global development policy. I do not believe that a solution to the conflicts we see between what are depicted as different religious groups is to create specific zones for certain religious affiliations. Then we would reinforce the conflict even more, as I see it. Often, the atrocities carried out in the name of religions, no matter what, have little to do with religion. It's a struggle between humanism and extremism. The ideas of some extreme organizations have nothing to do with religion; they have an elitist and extremist view of themselves a, their own power and the subordination of others. We shall always fight this, regardless of what they claim they have for religious point of departure or basis for their interpretation. Sweden will help people to live side by side and respect each other. Freedom of religion means that one who has faith may have that faith and that one who chooses not to have faith at all has that freedom. To divide communities into different religious groups, I would strongly reject.
i-de2172d592422bd6-274	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Kenneth G. Forslund a question in his capacity as a member of the largest government-supporting party. I will later put the same question to Minister of Aid Isabella Lövin. It has come to my attention that the government is to present its Syria strategy on Thursday, and I am pleased. This is one of the greatest challenges of our time, and we need a long-term policy on this front. The war has been going on for almost five years. Of Syria's 22 million inhabitants, half are refugees either in their own country or outside. We know that 85% of refugees are in the immediate vicinity. The number of deaths is over 200,000. It has come to my attention that in this effort the government announces that money will go directly to the A Sad administration without a clear UN filter or a filter via, for example, civil society organisations or humanitarian organisations. Perhaps this is just a rumor, but it has been presented to me by foreign ministers on site in the region and by various UN agencies operating there. For me as a Liberal, it sounds very strange and politically frightening that this actor, who is one of the biggest mass murderers in this region, should receive money in the long term. This money could also be used in a very cynical way because those parts of the country which are on the side of military dictatorship As ad are not allowed to take part in the money. What is your reflection, Kenneth G Forslund? Have you heard anything about it, and if so, what do you think?
i-de2172d592422bd6-280	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Ohlsson for the question. Details of the Syria strategy I believe that Minister of Aid Isabella Lövin will answer best. As far as the situation in Syria is concerned, it is clear that the war there has been going on far too long and with far too much hardship and consequences. We hope that the world can now unite and finally put an end to the terrible killing that is going on there. I want to be very clear about one thing. Dictator As ad can reasonably only be part of Syria's history, not Syria's future. Then it can be discussed how quickly that story will end. I would like to point out that I am not in favour of the death penalty, but I do not see President As ad as belonging to the future in Syria – he must be part of Syria's history. It is good that the Swedish Government adopts a Syria strategy. Birgitta Ohlsson can possibly tell about how the government before the current government worked on such a strategy. Mr President, I would like to As has been said, detailed questions on the content of the strategy are best answered by the Minister for Development.
i-de2172d592422bd6-285	Mr President, I would like to I believe that we all dream of the day when military demeanor As ad is faced with the International Criminal Court in The Hague to atone for the crimes committed by himself and, in the past, his father, who tortured large parts of the Syrian population for many years. As ad is particularly involved in an atrocious war with attacks on the civilian population. I would like to ask a question, which is perhaps a hypothetical question of principle: does Kenneth G Forslund think that Swedish aid money, if that were the case, can go directly to As ad-administration without a filter such as the UN, humanitarian organisations or civil society organisations?
i-de2172d592422bd6-287	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, I do not have the detailed knowledge of the contents of the Syria strategy, Birgitta Ohlsson, that I can respond to that in a relevant way. We can draw a parallel to Iraq, for example. One of the things that was consistently done there after Saddam Hussein's fall was to disqualify anyone who had a commitment to the Baath Party for future missions. Now, in retrospect, we can see that it was probably not a good thing to do that. We are talking about a structure in which the possibility of getting a job with any qualification required that one be a member of the government party and of an organisation that maintained the dictatorship. Of course, we must be called to account on the basis of our actions, but to totally and categorically disqualify people because they have been members of a party I think can be counterproductive. We have seen this in the Iraq case. As regards how it is intended to be designed in Syria, I do not have that detailed knowledge, but I refer to the Minister for Development later in the debate.
i-de2172d592422bd6-291	Mr President, I would like to Kenneth G. Forslund would like to speak out loud about the 1% target, but it does not have much bearing as a percentage target for the government if you then expect to offset 30%. It is possible to have a 1% target and then offset perhaps 50, 60 or 70 percent. What matters here is what is actually being spent on international aid in Category 7, where we are above the government this year. It is important what the content of aid is, and I would like to focus on the longer term aid. We have a goal of aid, namely to provide the conditions for better living conditions for people in poverty and oppression. Unfortunately, I do not think that the current aid policy is aimed directly at people in poverty and oppression, but rather at providing better conditions for governments and institutions. As regards improving conditions for people in poverty and oppression, the committee calls for this to be done primarily by changing social systems. I believe that it has a good purpose. I can understand the purpose, but I believe that it has not worked very well in practice. Instead, we should invest in aid reaching people in poverty and oppression and improving their living conditions in their immediate everyday lives. According to Openaid's website, the government has previously spent only about 740 million on water and sanitation aid, which is absolutely essential for people's survival. Instead, we want to invest EUR 2 billion. In agriculture and forestry, on which many people depend, there are only 791 million, compared with 2 billion. Why is this priority being made?
i-de2172d592422bd6-297	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Julia for the questions. First of all, we are seven parties in the Riksdag who agree on the one per cent target. I have good hope that Sweden will maintain it and continue to do so for a long time to come. The maximum calculation of 30% for asylum reception, which is the ceiling that has been set for next year, is money that is actually also going towards development. One can make the analysis a little more complicated than Julia Kronlid and the Swedish Democrats usually do. From experience we know that many of the people who come to us seeking asylum send quite large sums back home to their family and village and to various organisations to contribute to the development there, while they are here and especially when they have been granted asylum and thus start to get into Swedish society seriously, get jobs and education and establish themselves. In fact, what is called referrals gives at least three times as much money as the total amount of public aid in the world. Calculations for asylum reception contribute to development. One can possibly criticise it because it is slower because it becomes a filter that it will go through. I can imagine that it could possibly be proved. On the other hand, we know that by welcoming people in this country, they themselves will contribute to the development of their own countries. I would like to emphasise that Sweden only provides budgetary assistance to three countries. We invest in schools, health care, maternity care, infrastructure, jobs and a lot more.
i-de2172d592422bd6-303	Mr President, I would like to I would like to comment on this with referrals. It is a rather far-fetched way to conduct development policy that people should first get all the way to Sweden, get asylum and some kind of economy here and then send referrals. I think it would be more effective to send money directly to vulnerable people. If referrals are so effective, why is the UN still so extremely underfunded that the World Food Programme has even had to shut down its food programme during certain periods? It is not possible to refer to the fact that there are referrals from Sweden and that we therefore do not need to increase aid to the World Food Programme. It won't hold. It is not just about general budget support, which I am focusing on now, but about another type of institutional support with a great focus. We can compare aid that directly affects people's everyday lives – water, sanitation and agriculture. These receive between 700 and 800 million each, while 5.5 billion are spent on public administration, human rights and democracy, which is one of the largest areas of aid. Don't get me wrong. It is very important to invest in human rights in aid, but the right to water and sanitation, the right to food and to combat extreme hunger are also human rights. Somewhere you have to start. I heard a testimony once from an aid worker who tried to form a discussion group to talk about human rights, but no one came. Why? Because the women were busy supporting their family, getting food and water, surviving. Aren't we going to start at the right place, Kenneth G. Forslund?
i-de2172d592422bd6-309	Mr President, I would like to Julia Kronlid points to priorities in the field of aid. It is a relevant discussion, and there we can come to various conclusions. No doubt so. I note that we spend a lot of money on water and sanitation. The Swedish Democrats want to add even more. We can discuss what they might want to reduce instead. I can also note that Sweden, in its development cooperation, places great emphasis on education for boys and girls. Sweden has made a strong contribution to the fact that girls also have opportunities for education in the world. It is extremely important for an equal society and for development. We spend a lot of money on health care, on maternity care and some money on infrastructure. We work with the long-term, with job creation. I pointed earlier to the capital injection to Swedfund; it is an example of that. In the long run, we must achieve a development in which people can manage their own livelihoods. Julia Kronlid also points out that it is not effective to allow people to come here, get asylum and that way to create aid. No, I didn't claim it was effective. I pointed out that this could certainly be blamed for being a slow way of creating development. However, in the broad debate on aid policy – not by Julia Kronlid at the moment, but broadly in the development policy debate – it is sometimes presented as taking from poor people to pay for asylum reception. I do not share that view. We need to be able to do several things at the same time, both helping people on the ground and helping people here. The ones we help here also give the bonus effect that they in turn help people in the home countries.
i-de2172d592422bd6-314	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to be approved in the report on Category 7. 2015 has been a tumultuous year. The world is in one of the greatest humanitarian disasters ever. Never have so many people been on the run in the world. Terrorist groups such as IS in Syria and Iraq and Boko Haram in Nigeria are rampant. Innocent people are killed in large numbers. Sexual abuse is part of a disgusting warfare. IS terrible acts of terror put terror in people all over the world. Many are the innocent people who have been killed in Paris, Beirut, Ankara, Bamako. Mr President, I would like to We have to stand united, we have to stand strong and we have to act together. In order to do so, we need to look at the whole thing because everything is connected: poverty and conflict, a lack of human rights and democracy and conflict, climate change and poverty, climate change and conflict. Everything links together in a chain that can build both positive and negative spirals depending on how we act. That is how we need to look at the opportunities. We have to work on all the building blocks that exist and make it integrated. Therefore, Mr President, I am proud that Sweden is the country in Europe that receives the most asylum seekers. That is why it is important that we protect aid at the same time and continue to be the largest donor per capita. It is therefore important that the government spends additional money on humanitarian aid at a time when the lives of people, especially girls and women, are at stake in underfunded refugee camps. It is therefore important that we invest SEK 1.5 billion in aid to the Syrian crisis, where we remarry humanitarian aid with the long-term. It is important that the focus is on a feminist foreign policy that is reflected both in the focus on SRHR and education for girls as well as in women's participation in peace-building and conflict resolution. It is important that we invest in climate and the environment. The approximately 1.5 billion people living in failing and conflict-affected countries are among the poorest and most vulnerable people in the world. Here poverty is not reduced, on the contrary. The risk of conflict recurrence is high, and it is in these countries that the risk of natural disasters, environmental degradation and climate change is also highest. That's why we need to focus right there and right now. Mr President, I would like to In 2015, there have been no less than three major and very important global conferences, namely Financing for Development in Addis Abeba, Sustainable Development Goals in New York and the climate conference in Paris last week, when we got a new smoking new climate agreement. Now it is a matter of the world taking these goals forward to concrete action. The government has promised to contribute SEK 4 billion to the Green Climate Fund, which will help developing countries to invest and adapt to climate change. This in turn was an important component of Sweden's success in Paris, where Sweden and our Green Climate Minister, through their important role as mediator, contributed to the world reaching the ambitious goal of maximizing global temperature to 1.5 degrees. The government will now focus on the implementation of sustainable development goals, with which a revision of the development cooperation policy framework will play an important role. At last, we will be able to see serious coherence in our global policy. PGU has looked nice on paper and been important, but with sustainable development goals, Sweden and the world are forced to really act on the basis of consensus. Here, Sweden and our government will demonstrate their ability to act. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. We see climate change, terrorism, poverty. We have to stand united, we have to stand strong and we have to show action – together. Let me conclude with a few words by Nelson Mandela : It always seems impossible until it.
i-de2172d592422bd6-325	Mr President, I would like to Representatives of the government and government parties often talk about the flat-rate calculation of the aid settlements. It is a political decision that has been taken by the government and can be changed by the government if there is political will. But other principles also govern Swedish aid, such as the overall principle that agreements should be kept, the various commitments that Sweden makes in different contexts and so on. We received a reasonably good text on this in the report. That is why I would like to ask Pernilla Stålhammar: is it your view that the government's flat-rate calculations are the principle that prevails in all other principles and policies of aid policy?
i-de2172d592422bd6-327	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Sofia Arkelsten, for a very important question! There are Dac's rules on how to calculate the aid. Those rules have also been followed by governments before the present – bourgeois governments and governments before that. It has made use of the possibility of being able to count off a certain part of asylum seekers' costs when they have arrived in Sweden. What we have now done is put a roof on this, which is actually a little revolutionary. It must not exceed 30% of aid. The rest of the money has to be taken somewhere else. Otherwise, if we had maintained the way in which the Alliance and previous governments have used, we would have received 50% of the aid. That, of course, would have been unacceptable. With that, we have also expected that there could be a 30 % settlement. We do not know this now, but we will only know that when we know how large the asylum-seekers' numbers are and how much the costs are. We have also calculated it so as not to have to break any agreements, but to conclude the agreements that exist within the framework of the 70% and no more.
i-de2172d592422bd6-330	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Pernilla Stålhammar, for this! I take it that the government's view is that the standard as it stands remains and that funding is something you are looking for elsewhere and not just from the aid budget. My second question is more a question of the relationship between parliament and government. Is it your view, as a representative of one of the two parties in the government, that the Foreign Affairs Committee should have a comprehensive presentation of the Government's proposals? It is therefore a question of both the settlement and the postponement of payments, which has been communicated to the Committee on Foreign Affairs by the Secretary of State, as well as of the EUR 2 billion to be brought forward, as announced in a press release from the Left Party.
i-de2172d592422bd6-332	Mr President, I would like to I think that the Committee on Foreign Affairs has received good reports. It is clear that we could sit together all the time and get all the information in the world, but from my point of view I think we have been as informed as I understand that other foreign affairs committees were during the time of the Alliance.
i-de2172d592422bd6-333	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for an interesting and substantial debate so far! Last Saturday came the news that we've been waiting for. The world's countries agreed in Paris on a climate agreement to ensure that the world is not allowed to get more than two degrees warmer. Yes, it even became an increased level of ambition, and it aims to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees Fahrenheit [1.5 ° C]. This is a massive increase in ambition. The fact that the world has taken this important step is crucial for the climate, for humanity above all and for the common future of all. The agreement is also an important symbol that inspires hope and belief in the future in a troubled and challenging time. But it is also the end of a historic year, the super-development year 2015. In Agenda 2030, we have received a new global roadmap for sustainable development with 17 new common development goals for the whole world. This summer we also got a framework for how these objectives will finance as well. In fact, in the midst of a time of great concern, the world is able to agree on an ambitious and solidarity-based agenda for how our future will be brighter. I find that to be hopeful and absolutely necessary. It is therefore with great commitment and also great responsibility that Sweden now takes on this work. I am proud of the budget that we have submitted to Parliament. At a time when Sweden has received more refugees than ever in modern times, Swedish aid is still among the most generous in the world. With a broad parliamentary commitment behind the 1% target, we show the world around us that we can take responsibility both nationally and globally at a time that requires it. It is therefore also gratifying to be able to set a ceiling for refugee settlements for the coming years of a maximum of 30% of the total aid budget. This enables us to plan both long-term and responsible. Mr President, I would like to When the so-called Millennium Goals on halving world poverty were adopted 15 years ago, many were sceptical that they would make any difference. But the doubters got it wrong. The world managed to halve poverty. Now we are the first generation to actually eradicate it. At the same time, the view of poverty and poverty reduction is changing. The link between poor countries and poor people is beginning to loosen. In recent decades we have seen an increase in prosperity in large parts of the world that is unprecedented in human history. But that doesn't mean everyone's been better off. At the same time, in several of the fastest growing countries, we see the emergence of a core of chronic and extremely poor, particularly vulnerable to climate change, violence and conflict. The proportion of poor people living in conflict-affected or so-called failing states is increasing. Violations of human rights, repression, discrimination and weak building blocks the road to modernisation and development. We are also getting more and more evidence that the scope for civil society is being reduced, that democratic processes are being undermined and that threats to those who stand up for human rights are increasing. This development must be reversed, and it must also reflect Swedish priorities. Aid should be directed to where it is most needed. The government therefore prioritises the work for peace-building and state-building in so far as conflict-affected states are concerned so that people can live in peace and freedom and have their human rights respected. We give priority to solidarity because we know that we can only build sustainable societies and lasting peace and development if both women and men are involved. We prioritise the climate because a warmer climate hits the very poorest and not only threatens access to food and water, but also risks causing more and worse conflicts. To meet the challenges, we strengthen our work in a number of areas in 2016. We are increasing the funding for the UNHCR and other organisations working on the ground to help people in need. The government is also developing a new five-year strategy for humanitarian work that will reflect today's changing game plan where crises are increasingly prolonged, where attacks on relief workers are becoming more frequent and where respect for humanitarian law is being violated. The international humanitarian system is on its knees and needs more resources, but it also needs to be reformed. We will push for a stronger and more effective UN. We're going to push for women's influence to be secured. Assistance must provide equal protection for women and men, not least in terms of sexual and reproductive health and rights. Long-term peace must begin in the peace of our bodies. We are strengthening the work to increase women's participation in peace and state affairs because we know that development can never be sustainable if half the population is excluded. We also commission Sida to report on how Swedish aid can better help prevent armed conflicts and reduce the effects of natural disasters. Mr President, I would like to Not only are we the first generation to eradicate poverty, but we are also the last to save the climate. Then we must live up to the commitments made in Paris. This year, therefore, we are making a major increase in climate aid. We are committed both to strengthening developing countries' ability to adapt to climate change and to investments in renewable energy and energy efficiency. Over 1 billion people in the world still have no access to electricity. Providing the poorest with new small-scale and renewable energy can be the development leap the world needs. Finally, we are living at a time when the need for sustainable development is enormous but when global aid looks to be reduced. At this difficult time, it is crucial that there are countries that go ahead and show leadership. Sweden repeatedly shows that it is such a country. When we increased support for the Green Climate Fund, other countries followed. We'll keep showing the way that way. Swedish aid is world-class. Thanks to our joint efforts to manage and innovate, we have built it together for many years. I know that in this room there is broad support for Sweden's commitment and leadership in the world. Large parts of civil society – the trade union movement, churches, the environmental movement and municipalities and county councils – are involved in building Swedish aid every day. I am proud of the budget we are discussing today. I am also proud of everything that Swedish development cooperation does in the world.
i-de2172d592422bd6-349	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask the same question to Minister for Development Isabella Lövin as I put to Kenneth G. Forslund. It has come to my attention that the Red-Green Government is to present a new Syrian strategy in progress. I am very pleased as a Liberal. I think it is extremely important that we have a longer-term perspective on the cruel war that has been going on for almost five years now. It has caused enormous human suffering. We see this in our own country in the form of the many refugees who have come but above all in Syria's neighbouring countries. It has also come to my attention, among other things, from Swedish foreign service personnel under the authority of the Wen and UN officials on the spot, that money will go directly to the Asad regime, locally and around the country, without a UN filter or support to humanitarian organisations. I want this confirmed by the Minister for Development. Can I clarify whether this is true or not? I think we can all agree that it is important to think about what a post-Asad Syria should look like, as Kenneth G. Forslund and I discussed earlier in our shift in line. We must be aware that all individuals at local level around the country will not be replaced overnight. One mistake made during the Iraq crisis was that there was not a strong enough long-term perspective. The same situation we saw in Libya, for example, when the dictator Muammar Gaddafi was deposed. However, I would like to say that it is another matter to make direct efforts – if that is the case – even if it is at local administrative level, directly to a regime that is involved in a war that is currently going on with oil barrels bombs and other completely disgusting attacks on the population of the country.
i-de2172d592422bd6-354	Mr President, I would like to I can reassure Birgitta Ohlsson and the Swedish people that we will not have state-to-state cooperation with the Asad regime. It is essential that the Syria Strategy is launched now. A population of over 20 million people today lives in a reign of terror in Syria. 4 million are on the run outside Syria, but 8 million are also on the run inside Syria. We must take responsibility for the populations that have taken refuge in neighbouring countries and also try to strengthen democratic forces through civil society inside Syria. There should also be something to build on the day of peace in the country. In order to reach out to the people in urgent need and need of help, of course, we cooperate through the UN and other organisations, as we do in other humanitarian disasters. This applies to all humanitarian aid worldwide. We will not cooperate with the Asad regime. That is completely out of the question.
i-de2172d592422bd6-359	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that the Minister for Development is very clear about this. I wonder where the data came from. Among other things, it has been mentioned that Sweden will have a diametrically different view compared to other comparable countries, such as the United Kingdom, the United States and others who have chosen not to set up the aid in the same way. But, of course, if these tasks are not correct, I am delighted about that. If we're going to be clear, I still have a question. Although money should not go directly to the Asad regime, it also cooperates at local level to support around the country in various ways. Can the Minister for Development be equally clear that this also applies at local level? Will not a single Swedish aid crown go directly to local administration, for example? We know that military dictator Asad and his associates are still in control in large parts of the country. I want to know whether this applies at all levels, that it is not just a matter of government-to-government support. I am also talking about local level. There should always be a UN filter between them. There should always be a filter when it comes to civil society. There should always be a filter in the case of various humanitarian organisations, for example. Swedish aid money should not go directly to the murdering regime, the Asad regime, which drops oil barrels bombs on women, children and men around the country and has already murdered hundreds of thousands. As I said, I want to make it clear that this applies at all levels of Syrian society.
i-de2172d592422bd6-362	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Birgitta Ohlsson! I agree, once again, with the description of the Asad regime as a murdering regime. We have not yet launched the strategy. It will be decided on this Thursday. How it will be implemented into the smallest detail is today still a little early to go into because it has not been put into effect yet. The important thing is that we should now help build an alternative Syria. We will support democratic forces. We will also be supporting through international channels so that we reach out to the 8 million people who are refugees inside Syria and the many millions of children who do not go to school today. While we are talking about the whole and the aid budget, I would like to take this opportunity to ask a few questions about the Liberals' budget and priorities. It is interesting now that we have just decided on a new climate agreement. The small island nations, such as the Marshall Islands, Vanuatu and Kiribati, appeal to the rich part of the world to give money now. They're inundating. They are getting seawater penetration into their drinking water reservoirs and need support now. It is remarkable that you are not giving EUR 557 million to the Green Climate Fund. Instead, you should bet on the UNHCR. But you must also build long-term. What have you been thinking about that priority? Nor have we heard from the Liberals about a ceiling for refugee settlements. What are you thinking there?
i-de2172d592422bd6-369	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Minister Lövin for participating in the debate. The Minister for Development said in his speech that many international organisations are on their knees. For example, the World Food Programme tries to reach out with food supplements to 300 000 children so that they do not starve. Winter is approaching. This has serious consequences in many refugee camps. UNHCR has launched a winter program to distribute waterproof tents, heating elements, small stoves, winter clothing and various types of insulation materials. They have so far reached only one third of the people. Last winter, little children froze to death because of lack of support. The UN also has a programme, 3RP, which seeks to invest in both long-term and humanitarian efforts. They have not even been financed half. About a third they've got. So the needs are excruciating. How can the government defend the fact that refugee aid in the immediate vicinity of the crisis should not be strengthened by more than 800 million, according to the latest information I received in the Committee on Foreign Affairs? If there are further concrete initiatives, the Minister for Development will be happy to explain this. At the same time, the government will take 8 billion of the aid to finance the reception of refugees, as the budget now stands. There will probably be another 4 billion – this is very big money in relation to the money spent on refugee aid in the immediate vicinity of the crisis. Instead, we want to focus on refugee aid in the immediate region. But how can the government defend an unfair distribution of aid?
i-de2172d592422bd6-375	Mr President, I would like to I want to start by apologizing to Birgitta Ohlsson for asking questions at the end of the line shift. I am unaccustomed to the work of the Riksdag. Julia Kronlid is very careful not to tell you that her budget is based on 0.75% of bni while everyone else's budgets contain 1%. Julia Kronlid is trying to point out that the Swedish Democrats have 8 billion people who are being withheld so that they will go to those in need. In fact, the Swedish Democrats do not have the 8 billion in their budget at all. However, you are willing to take an additional 8 1⁄2 billion from the smaller part of the budget, i.e. from Sida's long-term development cooperation, to provide in case of humanitarian emergency as described by Julia Kronlid. As Julia Kronlid said, the government is also raising its ambition to help UNHCR, the World Food Programme, UNICEF and other organisations that are making vital efforts to help refugees in the neighbourhood. But Julia Kronlid's party has no money to receive the refugees and asylum seekers who come to Sweden. In addition, you want to take money, 8 1⁄2 billion, from long-term development aid and invest it in urgent action. What will happen to the women, children and men in Africa and Latin America whom we are helping today through our long-term efforts? Does Julia Kronlid have a good answer to that question?
i-de2172d592422bd6-379	Mr President, I would like to It would be good if the Minister for Development could go through our aid budget a little more thoroughly. Then she would have found many of the answers there. It is true that we are proposing a basic framework of 0.75%. But then there is the addition of EUR 4 billion to refugees who are not included in the 0.75%. What matters, of course, is how much aid money we are spending on international aid activities in Category 7. That's where we're 515 million above the government. We don't make these bills. We make 810 million bills while the government makes 8 billion bills. There's some of the money we can spend on refugees. Then there are also some re-priorities in aid, as I have explained in the past. We want to phase out the reform cooperation with Eastern Europe. We want to re-prioritise and spend less money on democratic aid to institutions. We'd rather go for water and sanitation. We want to phase out general budget support. V i want to phase out aid to the Palestinian Authority and its institutions because the money is in danger of falling into the wrong hands. We want to reduce nuclear aid to certain multilateral organisations beyond the UN. We want to reduce the smaller development banks. There are a great many examples in our budget where we explain how we want to redistribute aid. But we do not want to reduce the aid that goes directly to poor and vulnerable people, such as water, sanitation, agricultural development. Instead, we are strengthening aid there. There is an explanation in our budget of how we want to redistribute. We explain exactly how we want to distribute the aid through Sida and how we want to distribute the aid through the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. It is clear in our budget. We do much less counting, and we also have an extra bet in addition to the 0.75%.
i-de2172d592422bd6-386	Mr President, I would like to It's easy to say that you do much less calculations of refugees when you don't have any money at all to receive refugees in Sweden. We have an aid framework of over 40 billion. You are not counting 40 billion from the beginning, but you are starting somewhere just over 30 billion. Then it's very easy to make it look like we're wasting money, but you don't have that money at all. How are you going to receive the people who are already in Sweden, who have applied for asylum here and who have fled the war in Syria and Asad's killer bombs? It is poor people who today see no future whatsoever in this area or in refugee camps. I know Julia Kronlid has visited refugee camps. I've done it, too. A lot of people have been sitting there for four years. Their children do not go to school, they are not welcome to start a future in any of the neighbouring countries, nor can they return. We cannot blame them for seeking a future somewhere else, and now they are here. We are greatly increasing our efforts to help the local community. There are great needs there; it is quite clear. But we cannot – as the Swedish Democrats do – take a large share of our long-term development cooperation and close it to transfer funds to another budget line from one year to another. It's not responsible. Sweden is in favour of a responsible development policy, and that is why we are so greatly appreciated in the world. We are rated world class when you look at the quality of our development aid. We shall be extremely proud of that.
i-de2172d592422bd6-389	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Isabella Lövin, for your speech! There was a lot there that I appreciate and can share. It is very good that Sweden has an ambitious development policy. I particularly appreciate that you mentioned democracy activists, dissidents and the work of democracy around the world. A contribution from me is that, on the one hand, you should exchange financial support for groups working on these kinds of issues, and, on the other hand, you should ensure that you do not prune with regard to the EU's agreements with Cuba, for example. With regard to the Security Council candidacy, you should also not haggle off when you seek Cuba's support. You should also ensure that the EU and the US can switch to put pressure on Cuba in negotiations. We last saw the other day that 100 dissidents have been arrested or detained in their homes on UN Human Rights Day. It is very important to keep up that work, because sometimes it can be obscured by other things. I am also pleased that you are highlighting the importance of civil society for aid and for mobilising people's involvement. But for me this will be incredibly difficult to really take seriously when you at the same time remove the tax reduction for gifts to relief organizations. They have protested against this and said that it will mean about 250 million less in support of their activities from individuals. It is an incomprehensible priority as our world and times look that at the turn of the year there will be a higher tax on giving to relief organisations in Sweden. You need to explain that.
i-de2172d592422bd6-393	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the appreciative words, Jakob Forssmed! We in the Swedish Parliament have a fairly large consensus on what to focus our aid on and that it should be a high and ambitious level of aid. The shrinking space for civil society and human rights activists is a major concern and causes great concern. During my travels on all continents, I face restrictions on freedom of expression, restrictions on freedom of assembly and freedom of organisation. That is something that we take very seriously. We are also working very actively on it in the context of the letter on democracy and human rights coming next year. We will then have the opportunity to discuss this further. Jakob Forssmed takes up the removal of tax reduction on gifts. I am absolutely convinced that the Swedish people are giving from their hearts and not in order to get the tax deducted. You give enough to see that there is a need, because we are rich and because we have the opportunity to give. One of the major reasons for abolishing the tax reduction was also administrative difficulties in relation to bordering problems when determining which organisations were applicable or not. Removal thus means a reduction in the administrative burden that favours the reception of gifts. I would like to take this opportunity to ask Jakob Forssmed about the refugee censuses. We have heard nothing from the Christian Democrats about how you view having to draw a line when uniquely many refugees come to our country.
i-de2172d592422bd6-398	Mr President, I would like to The Government had every opportunity to request a reply to my speech but chose not to do so. Instead, she is asking questions in this change of line. I can take that. It's good to put a roof. I would like us to make even smaller calculations. We will see whether or not the Christian Democrats can do it in their budget. However, the fact that we should not go under 0.7 in real aid in the world seems to me to be a matter of course. I am counting on the Government to take on board my calls for relations with Cuba and for the government not to break off. What is achieved in trade agreements affects how the dissident has it on the ground. It is important not to be isolated from aid strategies and formulations, but to keep this high in the day-to-day work also in terms of the major strategies and cooperation we have internationally. It will be very strange when the Government addresses bordering problems as some kind of main reason for us to increase the tax on generosity in Sweden. It's not sustainable. The Government believes that the Swedish people will give the same amount anyway. But these organizations say that they expect to have lost $250 million. Since the introduction of the tax reduction, giving has increased by several hundred million. These organisations say that this is largely due to the tax reduction. One can stand in this Chamber and believe different things. But no one is forcing you to remove this. You are the ones who are making the proposal. It is not that the organisations want you to abolish this, on the contrary. They themselves say that the resources they now expect to lose could lead to 1 million poor people learning to read and write. The Red Cross says they could feed for a month to over 3 million people in Syria for this money. But you choose to prioritise removing entrance fees to state museums. It is more important for the Green Party in this budget, and I find that sad.
i-de2172d592422bd6-402	Mr President, I would like to Politics is both to want and to choose. The Government has jointly presented a budget with a wide range of very important priorities for the future and for Sweden regarding jobs, climate, school and health care. There has never been a tax on generosity; there has been a tax deduction for generosity. For various reasons, the government has chosen to abolish this possibility of deduction, for reasons of priority, of course. I would like to take this opportunity to highlight, among other things, what we are doing instead of next year. We in Sweden want to see a broad commitment from civil society organisations and other actors to build for the future and for Agenda 2030. We contribute SEK 36 million to Sida for a special grant, so that you can work with exchange projects and develop different types of collaborations where civil society and other actors can directly contribute to sustainable development. So there are many ways to strengthen the desire to do good in Sweden. It's not just about sending in a sum of money. You can work actively in many other ways, and that is also what Agenda 2030 is all about. What I see in the Christian Democrats' budget is this something you prioritise down in the Sida grant. There are therefore different ways of trying to contribute to sustainable development. We stand up for our way.
i-de2172d592422bd6-405	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates have chosen to be quite close to the government in the aid budget, but have chosen to give humanitarian aid a little more priority than some bilateral aid. It has been a challenge to see the priorities of the government with regard to aid. That question was asked a little bit at a head when the counting debate went at its hottest. What was to be removed, and what would remain? In view of this, I will start by saying two things. One is that I appreciate the participation of the Government in the debate. The second is that I appreciate the appropriations, the long-term perspective and the consensus in the speech. I would also like to ask a question about how we should look at Sida's new regulatory letter. Parliament had to take note of this before the debate, and we appreciate it. But what are the biggest changes in Sida's operations according to that government decision, does the Government consider? Is it the relocation of 850 million from the African account to the Folke Bernadotte Academy, the reduction in international civilian crisis management or the reduction in Baltic Sea cooperation? Which parts of this best describe the government's priorities?
i-de2172d592422bd6-407	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to object to the description that the Moderates are close to the government's draft budget for aid. Firstly, we are now working ambitiously to reach 1% of GDP in accordance with the new calculation model and the new EU directives. The Moderates don't. You're under SEK 820 million. I find that remarkable. I wonder how you intend to achieve the new 1% target. You say that you are not taking anything to the Climate Fund, and I also find that extremely remarkable at a time when we really need rapid and relatively dramatic action for the most vulnerable and fragile states, not least for the poorest people in these states. They now see water, food supply and their very basic needs threatened by climate change that goes very quickly and natural disasters that come in their wake. Nor have you announced anything about how you view refugee settlements. We've set a 30% ceiling. Whether or not you intend to take 60% of your budget will leave the Swedish people in a state of uncertainty. What's our priority? It is just as it has been in all other years, Sofia Arkelsten. We do not know how many refugees will come to Sweden next year. This is based on forecasts. Even if we get a very large number of refugees next year, we will have a ceiling of 30% settlements. It won't be anymore. But you in the Moderates have not announced how you intend to do it. It would be very good for the Swedish people to know what you intend to do.
i-de2172d592422bd6-411	Mr President, I would like to It is correct that in our draft budget we are somewhat lower. However, it is still a budget of 43 billion. It is a very defensive minister of aid that we see in this House today. I am sorry to hear that, because there are many things we could agree on. As far as climate and the environment are concerned, it is very clear that the Green Fund is a way of working. The development policy platform includes climate and environment as one of the main priorities. I think it is very important that aid should be mainstreamed and not put into a single fund as the only way to work. I appreciate the information that there's a 30% ceiling. But I can see that this is not on Parliament's table. It's not there. This is something that has been announced in the media. We then had to contact the government so that this information formally came to committee. But it is referred to our amending budget. In the Riksdag it works so that when we get a proposal we take a position on it. So it will come in our amending budget. I am somewhat concerned when the Minister for Development explains that we do not know what is a priority, because we do not know how many refugees are coming. That can't possibly be correct. You must have a plan for what you think is important about aid. In addition, I am curious to hear the Minister for Development describe the 2 billion who have been hating back and forth in the debate and who were suddenly moved to this page New Year through early payments, which I see as a purely numerical one that has been devoted to ensuring that the expenditure ceiling does not crash. I understand that the Social Democrats have the same view – that this is a expenditure cap management issue – while the Left Party sells this as an additional addition of 2 billion. Which is correct, the Minister for Development? It can't be that both of them are right.
i-de2172d592422bd6-417	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I note that the New Moderates do not believe that it is necessary to live up to Fredrik Reinfeldt's promises in Paris in 2009 when the Green Climate Fund was in focus and the rich countries promised to pay $100 billion a year from 2020. It was Fredrik Reinfeldt's government that then led Sweden. When it comes to how we intend to prioritise, it is very clear in the budget proposal where our priorities lie. They are based on climate and environment, gender equality, peace and state building, democracy and human rights. Those priorities are extremely clear. That's what we're navigating. As regards how the budget may possibly be, Sofia Arkelsten knows just as we do that, according to the budgetary process as it stands, nothing is cut in stone until we know how many refugees are coming to our country. If there's less, there'll be less counting. It does not really make sense to present another budget, and then we will have to amend and revise it again. When we presented the budget bill that is now on the table, we started from the forecasts that the Migration Board came up with in July. There were 73 000 refugees next year. It has now been substantially revised. That is the reality. This is due to the war in Syria and the Taliban in Afghanistan. It's not the government that's making trouble, it's the world that's changing.
i-de2172d592422bd6-421	Mr President, I would like to It is natural that the aid debate we have had today has focused a great deal on the situation in the Middle East. It is the worst humanitarian disaster of our time, but it is also one of our greatest development challenges. I very much welcome the fact that the government is now coming up with a new Syria strategy. I also hope that the Minister for Development will be able to come back to the committee and Parliament as soon as possible and inform us about the strategy. The country that has received by far the most refugees from Syria is Turkey. The latest figure is 2.3 million refugees. The majority of these do not live in refugee camps. Many live in Turkey under very difficult conditions, without a roof over their heads, without help and without opportunities for schooling, and so on. The UN is now saying that, according to the latest figures, only 35% of what has been requested by the international community this year in terms of humanitarian aid for the refugees in Turkey has been received. This means that you will be short of $3 billion (U.S.) needed to really guarantee a reasonable living situation for all people. I am therefore very pleased that the government, together with the Left Party here earlier, was able to present an extra investment in aid of SEK 2 billion that, among other things, reinforces humanitarian aid. The government also made another announcement a few days earlier. Following the EU summit with Turkey on 29 November, the EU pledged SEK 30 billion to a newly established Turkey fund. The Swedish government promised SEK 700 million to the fund. It is a fund that will be separate from the UN system. I wonder a little: why does the government choose to enter so much money into a fund that is completely outside the UN system rather than supporting the work that the UN is doing? Why choose to go in with that money when the obvious aim of the fund is for Turkey to prevent refugees from entering the EU from entering Turkey?
i-de2172d592422bd6-428	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Linde, for the question. Turkey has taken enormous responsibility for refugees from Syria and is currently the only country to receive new refugees from Syria. We see that Jordan and Lebanon are strained to the breaking point and are today trying to minimize or even prevent refugees from entering the country. Turkey is taking a huge responsibility. We should be extremely grateful and happy that they do so and take responsibility for their neighbors in the way they describe them. Sweden contributes. We are one of the most important nuclear donors to humanitarian organisations. We have made a major contribution to the Syria Recovery Trust Fund within the framework of the World Bank. We also see a value in our participation in the various EU funds now set up to support the population and refugees in the neighbourhood. One of the points of entering is to be involved in influencing the direction of these funds. There, of course, Sweden is already a major donor. Through our EU membership, our money goes earmarked into the EU's aid budget. In this way, we pay but have no influence on how the funds are used. With our contribution to the Turkey Fund, we also have a seat at the board table and can influence the direction. It's extremely important.
i-de2172d592422bd6-431	Mr President, I would like to It is true that Turkey has taken a great deal of responsibility, although at the same time there is every reason to criticise Turkey on several points for the way in which they are treating Syrian refugees today. For example, too many Syrian children in Turkey today are not allowed to go to school even though they are entitled to it. At the same time, there is another Turkey. Today, there is a Turkey where we have seen progress in the last year in terms of democracy and human rights. We see human rights violations constantly increasing and the governance in Ankara becoming increasingly authoritarian. It is important that we in Turkey do everything we can to support the Syrian refugees who are today inside Turkey. It is therefore important that we use the structures that the UN has. They're the most effective at this point. I am also concerned that there is closer cooperation with a government that is becoming increasingly authoritarian. The main aim of the EU-Turkey summit held on 29 November was not to help Syrian refugees in Turkey. The main aim was to persuade Turkey to start closing its borders. Turkey would begin to prevent refugees from taking the difficult route across the Mediterranean into Greece and into the EU. That is why it is now attracting Turkey with visa facilitation, fast track into EU membership, but also SEK 30 billion to the Turkey Fund. A Sweden that wants to stand up for both Syrian refugees and humanitarian aid and democracy and human rights should instead have chosen to invest the money into the UN's humanitarian work. That's where they're needed.
i-de2172d592422bd6-436	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is pursuing a number of very important principles in this context. One of those principles is that we do not make our aid conditional. Assistance shall be independent and independent. We do not go along with some of the other donor countries and use aid as implicit pressure or even a blackmail method to get some countries to do certain things. Long-term development aid or humanitarian aid is neutral. That must be the principle. This is also the principle that we are pursuing in the European Union and with which we are very clear when discussing with other Member States within the European Union. This also applies to the so-called Dacfähigheten. The money to be paid from the aid budget shall meet the criteria set out in the OECD Development Committee, DAC. That is something that we have the opportunity to push extra hard when we are part of the fund. We're big donors through different channels. Many initiatives are now being taken to strengthen and help people in the region. We see that there is an urgent need to do so now. Millions of children don't go to school. Millions of people cannot enjoy their human rights, simply. They do not get work permits and cannot create a future. It is important that we try to transform the refugee camp situation into a longer-term situation where jobs are created, where children can go to school and people can see that they can create a future.
i-de2172d592422bd6-440	Mr President, I would like to According to the Finnish Immigration Service's figures, last year some 7 000 unaccompanied minors applied for asylum in Sweden. This year, up to 30,000 children are expected to come here. These children have travelled over half the world on their own to start a new life. They are children who, despite their young age, have left their family, friends and surroundings to live in a country free from war and terror and to live in security. Nowadays, we call the reception of refugees a refugee crisis. Why do we now call it a crisis? It is especially evident when you talk about children. The Ombudsman for Children wrote last Friday in Svenska Dagbladet about the vulnerable situation that exists, especially for children who are on the run. He also noted a number of shortcomings in the Swedish reception of unaccompanied minors. He testified about children who are denied care, about children who are not receiving any form of education, about the lack of outer clothing and shoes, about the lack of a good man or someone who can speak for the child and about insecurity, especially for young girls, in many accommodations. I believe that we can all agree here that a series of measures are needed for our reception to work and for all children, regardless of where they were born, to have a safe upbringing. Now, as politicians, we need to take our responsibility for ensuring that our sluggish systems do not stand in the way of children's development. Sweden's municipalities and county councils visited the Social Affairs Committee a couple of weeks ago. They then described how many municipalities find it difficult to live up to all the complicated rules and regulations that exist and, at the same time, take joint and several responsibility for the reception of refugees. SKL presented a list of 47 reform proposals that the government should implement immediately so that municipalities around the country can cope with the current situation. It is my hope that the government will do everything in its power to quickly put these and other proposals into practice, especially those relating to children. One of the points relates precisely to support housing for children and young people. The study that exists but also in media reporting in recent years clearly shows that the forms of placement we currently have for children and young people are not enough. Today, many unaccompanied minors are placed in institution-like HVB, which specializes in caring for children and young people with substance abuse problems or severe mental problems. It is possible that this placement is suitable in individual cases, but in general children who have moved have completely different conditions and completely different needs. We therefore believe that support housing is a good option for young people who have a certain need for care but are at the same time on the threshold of starting an independent life, a life of their own in the adult world. For this reason, we are behind the bill on support housing – the alliance government initiated the investigation on this, and the new government has now put forward a bill on it. However, we have also chosen to make a specific opinion. The attitude of the Moderates towards welfare services in general is that we as legislators need to be much clearer about what requirements apply to the welfare service providers we have, whether they are municipal or independent. All welfare activities funded by taxpayers must be able to demonstrate acceptable quality results. We would have liked to see sharper wordings in this proposal on the obligation of authorisation for all operators, on quality requirements and on clear consequences in cases where quality cannot be guaranteed or is not met. This is, once again, particularly important in activities that care for children and young people. Mr President, I would like to Sweden faces a major challenge in terms of how we welcome those who seek protection in our country. Let us not surrender to the challenge and blame those who look different or speak another language! Instead, let us do all we can to improve our systems, so that those who receive asylum in Sweden also have tools to create a new life here and contribute to our society! Let us also ensure that all children have a safe upbringing, where each individual's conditions and needs govern what support and care they receive! Supported housing, which is a new form of investment, is one of many more measures that now need to be implemented.
i-de2172d592422bd6-450	Mr President, I would like to The Government proposes an amendment to the Social Services Act, which includes the introduction in the Act of a new form of placement for children and young people aged 16 to 20 years, and it should be called support housing. The new rules mean that the Social Welfare Board will ensure that children and young people who need to be cared for or living in a home other than their own are received in an assisted housing. Special reasons are required to place children between 16 and 17 years of age. It is due to the increasing influx of unaccompanied minors and young people that the need for support housing has increased significantly in recent times. The proposal for support housing and legislative changes is significant for our time. It seems that there are many laws and rules that the government is prepared to stretch and compromise in order to meet the needs that arise as a direct effect of the great immigration we have. By the end of November, more than 140 000 people had applied for asylum in Sweden, only this year. Of course, we realise more than any other party that this creates new challenges for our society. Therefore, we are not entirely surprised that this type of legislative amendment is now on the table of Parliament. 35 000 unaccompanied children and young people have come to Sweden. The system for placing children and young people has been challenged in many different ways. Due to the serious situation that Sweden is now in, we understand that it is urgent to get new forms of housing in place as quickly as possible. Mr President, I would like to We support the Moderates' and our specific opinion, which advocates a review of the legal framework for assisted housing. We believe that it is of the utmost importance that there is order in the welfare system. We therefore advocate a general authorisation requirement for all providers of assisted housing, regardless of their type of operation. We believe that a general licensing obligation would exclude rogue performers and protect the serious. It would facilitate long-term quality work and be a tool to ensure order and order. It is extremely important that quality is not lost on the road just because a form of housing is now being developed to meet the great need. But we do not want to delay the process, but we want to start with the government with support housing as of 1 January 2016.
i-de2172d592422bd6-457	Mr President, I would like to The Center Party sees migration as a very positive thing. The Center Party stands up for Sweden to be a humanitarian superpower, where we are doing everything we can to, for example, best receive the people who are on the run and who are seeking asylum with us. Now there are so many that it is necessary for Sweden to significantly improve its efforts for better integration and to get more people into work through, for example, lower thresholds in the labour market and more easier jobs. It is also important to make reception more efficient and cost-oriented. That is why we in the Center Party have produced many good proposals that we are pushing as strongly as we can. Today we are discussing the Government's proposal to establish a new form of placement for young people between the ages of 16 and 20 who cannot live in their own home: assisted housing. It is a proposal in the right direction, which the Centre Party, as the only party, had already included in its spring budget. Our migration policy spokesperson Johanna Jönsson wrote in Aftonbladet on 8 June this year: It is problematic from several perspectives. Above all, it increases costs significantly, as investment in HVB homes is significantly more expensive than other forms of housing. In addition, a general placement of young people in HVB homes overrides the specific needs of the individual. Moreover, as the media has shown in the last month, there is a risk that unaccompanied minors will be placed together with young people who are criminals or have other kinds of problems. The Center Party therefore wants to see a change. We want to enable municipalities to place unaccompanied children and young people in alternative forms of housing. Far from all children are in need of HVB homes and would be better off living more independently. There is simply not enough individual assessment of the needs of the individual young people. Many of the older people would feel better by living more independently, for example in assisted housing, in folk high school or by sharing smaller apartments. ..................................................... Against this background, it is of course gratifying to us in the Center Party that the government has now proposed a new form of placement in this particular direction. For me, who is new to the committee, it still seems a little strange that this has not been implemented several years ago. The Center Party welcomes the fact that steps are now finally being taken to make the placement of children more flexible and that the government is proposing support housing. But we're saying it's not enough. Significantly more measures are needed to reduce costs, increase flexibility and strengthen reception capacity. Enabling more flexible forms of housing is very important in the situation of so many unaccompanied minors seeking asylum, both to bring down the cost of reception and to improve it. The number of unaccompanied minors seeking asylum in Sweden has increased sharply in recent years, especially this autumn. The Finnish Immigration Service's forecast is that in 2015 there may be more unaccompanied minors than in the previous ten years together. This makes the design of the systems that meet children – not least how they are placed – more important than ever before. This calls for a greater review and more far-reaching changes in how children can be placed. The often rigid, expensive and bad solutions that are required today are neither good for children nor economically sustainable in a situation where thousands of certain weeks have come. A cheaper and more efficient model is absolutely necessary. In addition, the administration and the number of officials involved can in any case be reviewed with a view to shortening processing times and at the same time reducing costs. The proposal for housing support is a step in the right direction, but much more needs to be done. The precise reforms needed need to be reviewed. Some examples of opportunities to review are sharing apartments and living at folk high school or in accommodation with less staffing. In such a review, all stones must be turned around and all possibilities tested. The current regulatory framework also means that it is too difficult to place unaccompanied minors with relatives who are not guardians. For example, it can be a matter of relatives or close friends. The best interests of children must come first, and it is therefore important that the regulatory framework does not seriously hamper the possibility of having a first place in a new country with someone you actually know. Many unaccompanied persons have someone close to them in Sweden. Currently they are placed in the same municipality as this person but too often in an HVB home. This leads to an uneven distribution between municipalities, increased pressure on social secretaries and difficulties in planning the number of places. A review of the Social Services Act is therefore necessary to facilitate the placement of unaccompanied minors with relatives in Sweden. If such placement is not considered appropriate, it should be sufficient if the child or youth is placed within a reasonable distance. Mr President, I would like to In the light of what I have said, I am in favour of my reservation and that of the Center Party, which, in addition to supporting the Government's proposal, is a strong signal to the same government that much more needs to be done, in accordance with the Center Party's motion on this.
i-de2172d592422bd6-472	Mr President, I would like to Until yesterday, 36,568 unaccompanied children had arrived in Sweden and applied for asylum – so far this year. About half of them are 15 years of age or younger. Approximately 300 children are between 0 and 6 years of age. What we are now debating is a form of housing for the half of these children who are almost adults. But they're still kids. According to the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Rights of the Child, you as a child have the right to receive support and help until you are an adult. These are children who have done a great deal. They have fled, many times completely alone. Sometimes the flight began with family members, but during the journey they were left alone. These are children who have very great abilities, but they are also children who need the support and help of the adult world. I am pleased that the government is presenting this bill and thus carrying out the work that the alliance government began. I am also pleased with the sensitivity I have heard from the Council of State in committee when the matter has been discussed there with us. It is important that the form of support housing is put in place as soon as possible. But it is also important that we see the different needs of these children, both their strengths and their need for support. Very many of the children are boys. They're very much like young guys in general. They manage very much on their own, but sometimes it also gets a little wrong and crazy. You want to hang out with your friends. You may not want to get up early in the morning. You might want to try drinking alcohol even though you're not old enough. Without the support of the adult world, they won't make it. They can't stand life on their own. Therefore, I am pleased that the government is showing a sensitivity that a home should not necessarily be a single home, but that a form of housing such as folk high school is something you are fully open to include in this. I am also pleased that the Government takes note of what we have drawn attention to in our proposal: that there are some of these children who are particularly at risk of being subjected to human trafficking and that there is one thing we must be very careful to keep an eye on. We will debate the budget later today. We Christian Democrats have added more money to the Health and Welfare Inspection, because we believe it is incredibly important that the activities that are now being introduced should also be closely followed up so that we can see that these children receive the support they need and that the forms of housing that are developing correspond to the needs of young people. We have not heard about this in this particular case because the government does not have the money that would be needed in its budget, but I hope that the government will come back in that part too. With this, Mr President, I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-de2172d592422bd6-484	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. Today, we are debating the proposal for a new form of placement for children and young people proposed by the government in its proposal for a new support housing. It is very satisfying that we broadly agree in this House to approve the proposal. The development of municipalities has for some time highlighted the need for legislation that allows for flexible forms of investment. Recent events involving the large number of unaccompanied refugee children have further accentuated the need. It is therefore a good thing that today we can make a decision that gives municipalities greater opportunities to arrange housing based on the needs of the individual young individual. Young people have different needs, different degrees of maturity and need to be met accordingly. For the young person, the new form of living means a greater opportunity to prepare and train for adulthood. Mr President, I would like to When society takes over the care of children and young people from parents, it is a huge responsibility, and it is very important that careful assessment of the young person's needs takes place before deciding on the location. It is also of great importance that the young person himself be involved in the decision and that the authority listens to the young person and does proper follow-up. This applies, in particular, to unaccompanied minors, who have a particularly vulnerable situation in the absence of their own networks. From the committee, we assume that the demand for good quality is high and equivalent regardless of the performer. The design of the law gives municipalities great freedom to adapt their homes to suit the conditions and needs of young people. We assume, of course, that this will be done with the best interests of young people in mind. Mr President, I would like to We Social Democrats, like the government, want Sweden to be one of the best countries to grow up in. The requirements of the Convention on the Rights of all children to a safe upbringing are binding, and it is the duty of all of us to ensure that it is fulfilled.
i-de2172d592422bd6-491	Mr President, I would like to Today we have gathered to debate the proposal for a new form of placement for children and young people. The new support housing proposed by the government should be seen as a complement to the existing investment forms HVB and family homes. The form of placement is aimed at children and young people aged between 16 and 20 with a lack of family support and who are deemed to be able to live in their own home with adapted support without special care or treatment needs. We believe that it can be a good alternative for young people who are deemed to be so self-sustaining that they are already entering adulthood and feel themselves ready for a more independent existence but still need some support. The new form of placement can also serve as a lockout accommodation for young people who have previously been placed in, for example, HVB homes and an alternative for unaccompanied children who only need less support in their accommodation. We share the government's view that it is important that there are different forms of housing that are adapted to the needs of children and young people. The current system is rigid, and many of the children and young people who have been placed in family homes or in HVB homes have themselves asked for variations in forms of placement. We therefore welcome the Government's proposal. At the same time, there is some concern about us. We have a great understanding that Sweden is in an extraordinary situation that requires us to act urgently. At the same time, however, we must not make decisions today that we will regret tomorrow. That is why I would like to take this opportunity to raise the finger of warning. If the situation had been different, we would have liked it to have been possible to carry out a proper review of the overall impact of investments before new forms of investment had been introduced. The Ombudsman for Children recently published an article showing that children who have been cared for by society are at extreme risk of abuse, suicide, early retirement and social assistance dependency. The studies also show that more children have committed crimes or abused drugs after being cared for in an institution than before they were cared for. That is not what we want to achieve when we want to help children in need of society's protection. Therefore, we will closely monitor the development of the new form of living. We want to make sure that it is not a form of placement that is used because it is a cheap solution. We want to know that the young people who are placed in assisted housing themselves have wanted it and that they have received the help and support they need. Moreover, it is urgent that there should not be a special solution for unaccompanied minors. We believe that all children have the right to be investigated and to receive assistance on the same terms. Mr President, I would like to It is vitally important that we understand that we have children's entire lives in our hands. It is children that we promise to take care of when we believe that no one else can. Therefore, we must see these children as if they were our own. What had we accepted for our own children? What help and rights had we demanded, and with what force would we have struck if we had seen that our children did not receive the help they needed? However we twist it and turn it around, the families in which we intervene are usually not among the most resourceful groups in our society. It is not the group that screams the loudest when society fails, and it is not these people who have the fullest attention of politics when we have failed. Unfortunately, our dark history when it comes to children who have been cared for by society is a brutal proof. We have not taken responsibility for the role we have taken on. Unless we dare to see this, there is an imminent risk that failure may continue to happen in the future. It is therefore essential that we put forward the proposal in the light of the crisis social services have been in for an indefensible period of time. It is a crisis which, with its hand on its heart, has certainly not been at the top of the political agenda. If we continue along this path, it does not matter how good the government's proposals are if we do not provide the conditions for using them properly. A little later today, the committee will be debating Category 9 in this House. In the budget negotiations, one of the Left Party's priorities was to have more resources for social services. That is why we are extremely pleased that we have agreed on a billion-dollar investment in social care for children and young people over a four-year period. We know that resources are needed as well as staff with the right skills, but we also know that much more is needed. We need to take a holistic approach to our social services where we provide the necessary resources and also evaluate the methods applied and provide the conditions for social work in real life. Although we support the Government's proposals, we expect this to be only a first step in a major roll-over of social services, in particular the development of social care for children and young people.
i-de2172d592422bd6-503	Mr President, I would like to It is important to bear in mind that the proposal is not designed specifically for unaccompanied minors but is also intended for other children and young people who for some reason cannot live in the home. In the debate, it sounds as if the proposal only came about not for but because of the unaccompanied children. If you think like that, it's easy to get in the wrong place. It is easy to see the proposal only as a way of reducing costs, or an accommodation that most people can live in. As early as June 2012, the then alliance government commissioned a review of LVU, and in June 2013, the Supplementary Directive for a review of placement options for children's and young people's housing, care and education according to SoL and LVU, as well as for more alternatives than are currently available. The proposal today is called Supported housing – a new form of investment for children and young people, not Support housing – a form of investment for unaccompanied people. Already today, many municipalities use a form of inter-residential housing for those over 18 who are to be flown out of HVB. In the same way, those under 18 who are judged to be able to do so will now get away from the institutional environment that HVB is after all, and this applies to both unaccompanied and other young people. The proposal also allows for better individual assessments of both unaccompanied minors and other children and young people. Some need family homes, others need HVB, some need support housing in some form. What is important is that all investments are based on a rights perspective and, of course, on quality when society takes on parental responsibility. We know that many children, about 300, disappear every year. Where they go, we don't know. We don't know why they disappear either. Some come back, but far from everyone. Some children disappear when they have received a rejection of their asylum application, while other children who have received a residence permit disappear. Children of all ages disappear. The smallest are in pre-school age. Coordination, prevention and follow-up are needed here. One child who disappears is one child too many. We also know that children who have had society as a parent far more often than other children end up in various forms of risk use. Abuse and suicide are more common as well as dependency support. The children for whom we as a society have taken responsibility should also be there. Liberals would therefore stress the importance of ensuring that children and young people receive the support they need also when they are placed in assisted housing where staff are not present in the same way as in a family home or HVB. For example, to think that the night crew is going away, as you sometimes do here, we think is the wrong way to go. Like many others, I have visited many HVBs and arrival homes, both now as a Member of Parliament and previously as a municipal politician. All accommodations are different, and everyone who lives there is different – of course – because it's about individuals. HVB is a good form of living, but it is not ideal for everyone. For some young people, living in a satellite apartment is a good form. For others, more support is needed, perhaps not as much as in an HVB, but more as the form of coherent support housing that we from the Liberals proposed in our motion. I am pleased that this form of housing is now a clearer part of the report. Mr President, I would like to On one of my visits to an accommodation for unaccompanied persons, one of the staff said: In the days it works most of the time. They're happy guys who like school and video games. It's at night it's coming. Some people have nightmares. Others lack their families and worry. Some cry. It's almost easiest. You can hold them, and they get so small then. The hardest are the ones that close, the ones we do not reach, the ones that lie in bed and just stare at the ceiling. It usually takes a while, and then the nightmares come. Then they need us the most. She told us about nights when those who work well during the day wake up in panic and scream and about 16-year-olds who every night relive the abuse they have suffered on the way here to Sweden. In addition, unaccompanied children and young people have other needs that are partly different from those of other young people, where support housing may be an alternative. It is not just about support for developing towards greater independence and towards adult life. There is also a need for support to become part of a new society, a new culture, a whole new context. Therefore, whether the best is an investment in assisted housing or HVB must be carefully considered, as well as the type of assisted housing that may be relevant. As little as HVB is for everyone, satellite apartments are. For many, the days work as the nights become a constant repetition of the disgusting things you have been exposed to on the way here. Liberals welcome the proposal on assisted housing as a new form of investment. However, we would like to emphasise the importance of individual assessment, the importance of monitoring and the importance of controls, both at the start of assisted housing and later. I would therefore like to support the committee's proposal.
i-de2172d592422bd6-518	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to debate Area of expenditure 9 Health, health and social care. It embraces much of what is at the heart of our welfare society. We will have jointly funded healthcare and care, and it will be equally good for everyone regardless of who you are and where you live in our country. We shall provide care and care in such a way that we protect our taxpayers' money and support development. We should not use the resources in a way that we know is not the best way to use the money. Unfortunately, the government has not really based on the latter of these principles. The government budget contains several misplaced initiatives. It is bets that may sound good when you hear about them but which we know is not a wise way to use the funds. I can mention, for example, that people want medicines to be free of charge for all children, that the mammography should be free of charge and that care fees for the elderly should be free of charge. That sounds nice, but we Christian Democrats would rather spend those funds on those who have the smallest margins. We do not want everyone to have access to them regardless of whether it is necessary or not. We know that it is a better priority to spend money on more urgent efforts such as raising the income of the most deprived families of children by raising housing allowances and social security standards and by maintaining leisure allowances. This is what Save the Children and others who work close to children say that the most vulnerable families with children would benefit most. This is so that children do not have to sign up for a child's party or for soccer training because they do not dare to say at home that they want to be part of the community that is involved in, for example, football or gymnastics. As far as the issue of glasses is concerned, we Christian Democrats have long argued that all county councils should provide spectacle allowances for children. But it is one of the county councils' tasks, not something that we should regulate via the state, just as with other types of aids. In the case of free medicines for children, several consultation bodies have argued that there is a risk of increasing drug consumption among children. It is already a problem today, not least in relation to antibiotic resistance. Free medicines can lead to an increase in demand for medicines, and that would be an unfortunate development. Those families with children who find it difficult to pay for their medicines can already have these costs covered today through the support given to families in a vulnerable financial situation – even the costs that arise before we all reach high-cost protection. The investment in mammography shall be free of charge. Reference is made to the fact that there are women who do not seek the mammography. That's it– it's a problem that depending on which socio-economic group you belong to, the probability that you'll be part of the important mammography survey is different. However, toll removal has been tested, for example here in Stockholm County Council. In Stockholm, the fee was SEK 140 in 2003. Between 2008 and 2010 we saw a decrease in the number of visits to the mammography despite the fact that the fee was still low when other costs in society increased. In 2012, the fee was removed. At that time, visits increased by 3 per cent. In socio-economically weak areas such as Spånga-Kista, they increased by 4 per cent. In Skärholmen they increased by 6 per cent. Where, though, did the duty-free rate increase the frequency of visits most? Well, in Hedvig Eleonora and Gustav Vasa, that is, right here, in the middle of town, where the most economically vulnerable do not live. Here the frequency of visitors increased by 11 per cent. When asked the women who visited the mammography, they did not even know that the fee had been removed. It was the increased information when the fee was removed that you should go to your mammography survey that made you come to a greater extent. There are other and more cost-effective ways that also achieve better results, not least if you want to reach the most economically vulnerable. One is information in several languages on why it is important to participate in screening programmes. This applies not only to mammography but also, of course, to other types of screening. We have shortcomings in healthcare in terms of equality, and we must fight them. But we should not spend money in a way that we already know today that it is not effective. For us Christian Democrats, the health of children and young people is a priority area. This applies, in particular, to the mental health of children and young people. Therefore, we invest a lot of our resources in increasing accessibility, not least in school health care. We know today that children and young people are not doing as well as they could, but we know too little about the reasons. It is an important area in which I hope that in the future we will have more opportunity to find out the causes and thus also to remedy them. Since Parliament has already decided on the framework and then rejected the Christian Democrats' draft budget, we choose not to take part in the decision but to refer to our special opinion otherwise.
i-de2172d592422bd6-536	Mr President, I would like to You also choose not to tell us that you budget 4 billion less on the whole amount, Emma Henriksson. This applies to all issues: health and social services. It's not just about mammography, it's about a smaller investment in welfare. At least that's how I see it. 4 billion is 4 billion. You're saying that free mammography is not something we should be working on. If you look in Bergsjön, which is a rather neglected and exposed area in Gothenburg, you can see that 54 percent of the women who participate in the mammography. If you go to Sävedalen you can see that it is 84 percent. This is what it looks like throughout Sweden. This is a reform that is also supported by the Breast Cancer Association and the Cancer Society. They've wanted free mammography for a long time. This must be complemented by information and outreach activities. You know that the Left Party has got into the budget to work with a number of targeted efforts. I think it's 130 million we've spent on this. It's about finding the women who don't seek medical attention. You have also said no to that. So I have to ask you, what do you think is a good model? And how did you work? Now it was in itself a while ago... almost over a year ago... that you left the Ministry of Social Affairs. What did you think about the different possibilities for women? They do not take the opportunity; they do not go to the health centre. If so, what investments do you think we should start with when you also cut 4 billion? It would be super interesting to know.
i-de2172d592422bd6-540	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that I am being asked what we did during our reign. In the area of health care, in the area of social care and in the area of older people's policy, we did a lot of crazy work. We did so much that a lot of that is what the current government is still working on. This applies to the cancer strategy, which we implemented, for example. At least so far we have not begun to tear up all the quality and care measurements that we started with. That was what the previous Social Democratic government failed so badly to do. They didn't want the light on what was done. If you do not know, there will also be no requirements for what needs to be improved. Much of the basic work we did was to find out how long the queues are, what it is that has to wait, why some have to wait longer than others and why the queues are so different long to different important treatments depending on which county council you live in. We Christian Democrats see the need for a new major health reform in order to provide the same, equally good care to every citizen in this country. These are the big perspectives we need to see. When we know that some small reforms are not effective, we should not be putting it down when we know that it is the big moves that are needed. We need greater government responsibility for health care. It is true that in this area of expenditure there is a difference between how much money we spend. But what the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party are trying to hide from citizens are the hugely increased costs of care when you raise employers' contributions for many of the health workers. They hit both young people and new ones – many of them work in the public sector – and the elderly who want to stay and work and who now get increased costs if they continue to work after 65. Many of them are in the care.
i-de2172d592422bd6-545	Mr President, I would like to You're taking 4 billion from the entire area, Emma. That's 4 billion less. It is clear that it will then be a little less money. There will be no mammography for these women. You didn't answer my question. We do not think it is justifiable with a difference of as much as 54% of the women in Bergsjön and 84% of the women in Sävedalen. That's what it looks like in the area by area. You say outright 'no' to all the reforms that raise the class perspective. You can see that when you read your draft budget. It's not on paper. You also say no to the addition to maternity care, where there are major health injuries. Every other woman who gives birth to vaginal today has birth injuries. You also say no to this. 4 billion less is 4 billion less. It will not be a perspective that benefits those who have the most deprived in society. During your eight years, you did not have targeted actions for those groups in society that have the worst health and do not come to health care, Emma. Free mammography is available in Stockholm. There are 6 percent more women going to the mammography in Skärholmen. You think it's nada. You don't think it's anything. But there are some saved lives, Emma Henriksson. I think you should look at it. You should call your friends in Stockholm County Council, because it is you who advise it. They haven't removed it, so something must be pretty wise about this.
i-de2172d592422bd6-551	Mr President, I would like to That's good. Whether it's 2.4 or 6 percent more people visit mammography, it's good. However, when carrying out a reform, one must also consider what the overall impact is and what the effects were. We see that duty-free costs some of the reduced revenues of, for example, those who visit the mammography and who would have done so anyway. These are the people who live in Nacka or Täby or on Östermalm. In addition, differences have increased. In the more prosperous areas, even more have visited the mammography. There's something we're supposed to be really happy about. However, if the aim of the reform is to reduce the difference and that it increases most among those who today have the least participation, the differences with the kind of reform that you now choose to invest in the money increase. We're here to protect taxpayers' money. We are going to give patients as much power as possible, but in a way in which we have the resources to continue to develop health care and for those who are diagnosed today to know that tomorrow we will be able to cure what we were unable to cure yesterday. That must be our main priority. Much of the reforms to which we say no, we say no because they are ineffective and unclear. This applies, for example, to women's care and maternity care. There you have a pot of money but no clear definition of how the funds should be used. We Christian Democrats protect all patients' opportunities for equal and good care no matter where they live. You are turning a blind eye to the fact that your budget as a whole, and not just in this area of expenditure, makes healthcare more expensive for the taxpayers who are going to finance care because they are going to pay the employer's contribution.
i-de2172d592422bd6-556	Mr President, I would like to There should be order in the welfare. Each tax chandelier shall be used carefully. This requires good supervision, transparency and clear quality requirements. Our clear focus should be on the quality of the meeting between patients and patients and the staff of care and care. It is precisely that meeting that makes quality development possible. I have great respect for the health workers who make this possible every day of the year. We choose to abstain from the decision taken tomorrow, but of course we support our specific opinion and our draft budget as a whole. I would also like to take this opportunity to support many of the elements that my alliance colleague Emma Henriksson here has previously raised in the debate. Sweden is in a serious situation with several growing challenges. People run away. We are at the beginning of a great period of migration. It will make a lot of demands on how we want to develop our overall well-being. At the moment, we are seeing increasing migration costs and increasing costs of sick leave, which will of course have a major impact also on the social welfare and health issues that we have to consider. This became particularly clear when the responsible authorities were present in committee the other week. It also became very clear that, even after this budget decision, several major challenges remain in health care, social services and other areas of responsibility that are on our table. Municipalities have reported themselves. The health inspection says the limit is reached or more than that. What is the government doing in an extraordinary situation? It's time for the government and the government to show leadership. Sweden is described as one of the world's best countries to grow up and live in, but there are great challenges – a new exclusion that is growing and tough international competition demands us. The budget bill shows that in many of these challenges the government is in the process of being dealt with. A tax shock on jobs risks a deterioration in the competitiveness of companies. When job growth is slowed down, some of the revenue that is an important part of the breeding ground disappears for all the issues we are discussing here. This is the wrong way for Sweden. We Moderates and Alliance colleagues stand for a completely different path. To cope with the increased welfare, requirements and increased prosperity and security for all people, increased job growth is needed. Mr President, I would like to Swedish health care has very good results from an international perspective, but it is far too long waiting times and far too poor accessibility. It is therefore worrying that the government is not fully taking these challenges seriously. It is about waiting times, availability and quality. Now there are no demands for performance or reduced waiting times. Now there are fewer demands for quality increases. Sweden's older people can expect more years with better health than in most countries. Today, you can live over 20 years after retirement. It is a fantastic development, but it also requires a change of view of our elderly. Older people are no longer a homogeneous crop of people with the same needs and wishes. These challenges must now be taken seriously. Sweden is also one of the world's best countries to grow up in for children and young people, but the children who are not well off are still far too many. It's time for a fresh start in social services. The barrels of the Left Government are roaring empty. The bill list is empty. The reform proposals reflect their absence. Where is the activity to do all that was promised in the 2014 election campaign by the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party? We are talking about investments, but it is easy to make it rhetorical if proposals and concrete measures to make it possible do not exist. It is time for the government to show leadership in both the short and long term to address a number of the social challenges we face. We Moderates obviously support all the proposals that are now in place to take a new quality step on social issues, health care, the elderly and children and young people, but let me mention three important such proposals. First of all, strengthen quality! Introduce general permit requirements for all performers, no matter who they are. Go for quality. It is possible for Ivo to extend supervision, so that the concrete measures and the strengthening thereof will also make it possible to do more right from the start. Secondly, make sure to create a national human resources strategy! Skills provision is needed to make it possible for us to have employees today and tomorrow who want to do this. Thirdly, keep waiting times short, but do so in a structured manner and with target strategy and incentives! We have shown under the alliance government that this was possible, and it is deeply regrettable that the government is not continuing this work.
i-de2172d592422bd6-575	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates also add 4 billion less, Cecilia Widegren. When you look at the Alliance's budgets, you understand that the Alliance no longer exists, because there are completely different entrances. But we're not going to discuss that here. So you're spending 4 billion less on health care. My question to you is why you do not say yes to the money allocated to young people's mental health. It looks a little different there with regard to the former alliance parties. The whole area of mental health would need billions to lift. We also need a psychiatrist who treats his patients with respect and hope that it is possible to live with the diagnoses that are distributed relatively generously. Mental illness accounts for just over one third of health insurance costs. There's a lot to do here. You can see that when you look at the different tables. Instead, you want to invest EUR 4 billion less in the whole area of health and social services. You say no to the 250 million negotiated by the Left Party in addition to the billion that lies for the whole area. This is one of the questions I have for you: why do you not want to prioritise this? We are very pleased that the Social Services have received 1 billion for targeted actions for children and young people. That's more than you managed to perform in your eight years. Social services are not on their knees because of the refugee situation; they have been on their knees for a long time. Strong reinforcements are needed here. I do not have time for so many questions, but my first question is therefore why you say no to young people's efforts in the field of mental illness.
i-de2172d592422bd6-582	Mr President, I would like to I noted in my introduction that waiting times for care and care are increasing. There are different ways of finding out if you want to see how it really is and how you mentally feel. Today is a year and a half waiting time for trauma care in western Sweden. If you feel really sick, you may be given an emergency time for a consultation to know that you will start a treatment in a year and a half. Then the Left Party stands here in the Swedish parliament and says that they want to solve this concern with sending in more money and wondering why we don't do the same. Yeah, what if the math was that simple? Even the Left Party must see that the waiting time has increased recently, with the current government? Why, then, does the Left Party choose to say no to what was previously possible, namely to shorten the waiting times with clear target follow-up and clear incentives to increase accessibility? You can also be mentally burdened by not having a job. And if the threshold for getting a job is even higher, mental illness can also increase. We're afraid of it. With the policy of the Left Party and the current government, the threshold will increase for young people and the elderly. Then it is quite tough for a Communist to stand here in the pulpit and say: We have solved this, why do you not do the same as we do?
i-de2172d592422bd6-586	Mr President, I would like to Cecilia Widegren uses the word. That's where I think you're talking a little bit. How are you gonna cut the lines by 4 billion less? I wonder. Are you going to make your knees work? You can really ask yourself that. There will be 4 billion less for health care and social services. Quality will decline, and people in vulnerable positions will get it even worse. When you look at class, it's not the most vulnerable who get your money. You consistently say no to all the reforms that are about meeting the people who are out there and who are not going to health care. They're the ones who feel the worst mentally. When you look at analyses and research, it always turns out that it is people with little social capital and less education, and they live in the areas that are most vulnerable. You don't seem to have thought about that at all. You are more interested in protecting the companies that can cash in the most profits. You really have to search with lights and lanterns, and unfortunately I have not found a single word about those people who are furthest away from health care and who are feeling the worst today. That's it, Cecilia Widegren, moderate! You can look at what the money is for. For example, you have 99 billion for job tax deductions. You can draw a long list. You have consistently said no to all reforms dealing with tackling health inequalities, Cecilia Widegren.
i-de2172d592422bd6-592	Mr President, I would like to I chose to answer the question I received from the Left Party. I am somewhat disappointed that we cannot take in the experience shown during the alliance government, that it was possible to increase accessibility and short queues, as well as in psychiatry. I continue to note that with the proposals that Karin Rågsjö and the Government have now presented, there is nothing to guarantee that the waiting time for trauma care in West Sweden will decrease from the one and a half years that it is today. There is also nothing in the proposals presented by Karin Rågsjö that says that the high threshold to work does not lead to ill health. With Karin Rågsjö's politics, you don't get a job. Basically, it is jobs and growth that create the conditions for us to also have a generous general welfare. But unfortunately, Karin Rågsjö, if you have such high taxation on all the companies that make this possible, then you will not have the desired resources that you stand here promising out. It is true that in our next year's budget we do not choose to put these tax shocks on the job. We are convinced that if we lower the threshold for more people at work, we get both increased health and more people who work and feel that they can contribute and come to their right in their everyday lives. This also means that the general welfare can work with the most vulnerable, work with those who really have concerns, young and older, because those who have these needs become fewer when more people come to their own in their everyday lives. I very much regret that the Left Party does not want to see that it wants to help the most vulnerable in society. I'm sorry about that.
i-de2172d592422bd6-597	Mr President, I would like to Cecilia Widegren returns on a number of occasions in her speech to demands for order and quality in healthcare and care. These are perfectly reasonable and adequate demands which I think we should all make in this area of expenditure, that the tax money that we use should work well. But you still have to ask yourself a question. They want more quality but still invest more than 4 billion less than the government does in its budget. How are we gonna do that? For me, quality in care and care is about the meeting between the care provider and the care provider. How to do it with so much less resources is beyond my understanding. Instead, the Moderates – as usual, I would say – propose reduced taxes. It's been tried. For eight years they tried to reduce taxes by over 100 billion and thus dug large holes in welfare. We know that at the end of the government period, the number of employees in publicly funded care was about as low as it was during the 1990s crisis. Are we going back to that? Job tax deductions and reduced taxes led to large holes in welfare but not to more jobs. In fact, unemployment was higher when we took over government power in 2014. It is difficult to explain, I think, how these smaller investments should be able to meet the demands of order and quality that Cecilia Widegren is talking about.
i-de2172d592422bd6-601	Mr President, I would like to I note that the Social Democrats AnnaAnna-Lena Sörenson begins to allocate the resources before she has made sure that she has the resources at Parliament's table. If it is to be possible to develop a general well-being, it should surely be necessary for the resources to come in as well. If more are in work, if we have increased growth, that will be possible. But if you raise the thresholds for jobs, for young people and for older people, the resources will be smaller, not greater. As for the history of the Alliance government, linked to what we invested in welfare, Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson cannot beat the Moderates or the Alliance on the fingers either. 57 additional billions to Swedish health care we contributed during eight years of government. There was an increase of 26 percent over the eight years. AnnaAnna-Lena Sörenson is now talking about 1 or 2 billion, which would solve the concerns in terms of quality, waiting times and staffing. It kind of doesn't make sense. AnnaAnna-Lena Sörenson comes from an area in Sweden where small and medium-sized enterprises are very important. What do the entrepreneurs in Östergötland say when the increase in employers' contributions hits from the turn of the year? How many fewer young ostgöts are now working in Östergötland during spring and summer next year? AnnaAnna-Lena Sörenson! Then it will be quite difficult to come back to Parliament and note that we actually had such a tax shock into the welfare that burdened the welfare so that it was not fully possible to follow. I also believe that Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson was somewhat amazed when she heard her own Minister of Finance last Saturday stating that the crown-for-krona principle no longer applies. Now it will be air castles again in the state budget. If you intend to have those air castles even in this area will be very interesting to see. But surely it would be the case that we should comply with both the budgetary rules and the budgetary law in order to have order in the state's finances. The Alliance showed that it was possible for eight years. Why don't the Social Democrats do that?
i-de2172d592422bd6-607	Mr President, I would like to The obstacles that Cecilia Widegren is talking about when it comes to young people and jobs are well about the reduction in employers' contributions. They turned out on all sorts of occasions not to lead to new jobs. These were expensive reforms, but there were not many more jobs. It does not seem that the Moderates themselves believe in it anymore, as they no longer use it in their proposals. Nor does it seem that much is believed in the queue billions, about which we have heard Cecilia Widegren talk a lot earlier today, because it does not invest as much in one and apparently does not agree with its former alliance partners on this either. They also say no to the government's transfer to professional billions. V i know that care needs to be able to develop its professionalism more, be able to meet more patients, get rid of the burden of much administration. We do not want that either, but we believe in an old medicine to deal with accessibility. We know that waiting times increased at the end of the previous government's government's holdings.
i-de2172d592422bd6-610	Mr President, I would like to Quality development consists of making it possible in the meeting between health care workers, patients and patients, to make it possible every day to achieve this. We must then provide the means and resources, but above all incentives to make this possible. That the Alliance can provide resources, we showed in government. But what the Social Democrats lack now is that there are no proposals. What do you want? Where are the proposals? It's empty! Where are the measures that the Swedish Parliament should take a position on in order to achieve these improvements? Then it becomes strange when you say: What you did in the time of the Alliance was bad. I believe that Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson is one of the few health politicians who cannot see that there were enormous benefits to both the health guarantee and the kitchen cleaning money at the very initial stage, even after a number of years, and that it was then absolutely necessary to start screwing in the way in which this was to be developed in the long term. These proposals are now also on Parliament's table. They say no to the Social Democrats and AnnaAnna-Lena Sörenson. Then I can only say that I do not believe that waiting times will be shortened and made more accessible in health care when you do not have target management, do not have performance limits or create incentives to enable this meeting. There must be concrete action if change is to be achieved. Political leadership is required to make it possible. Both of those components are today something that we lack and do not see. That is why we are deeply concerned, Anna-Lena Sörenson, when we can see that waiting times are increasing again. The quality is achieved in this meeting. But it also takes a number of things to make it possible – leadership and political proposals. We are waiting for them here in the Swedish parliament and now hope that the government and the Social Democrats will present such proposals in the future.
i-de2172d592422bd6-616	Mr President, I would like to Today we are going to debate Category 9, Health, Health and Social Care. It is a large and important area that affects us all sooner or later. Politics is to prioritise and choose the path. For the Swedish Democrats, healthcare and care are high priority areas. That is why we are investing billions more than the government in this important area. It's necessary. Mr President, I would like to Sweden's welfare is becoming more strained every day. It is a development that worries me deeply. As a social-conservative party, we protect the jointly funded welfare. It is therefore extremely regrettable that we are now receiving signals from staff and patients that welfare is under threat on several levels, for example in health care, in care for the elderly and also in social services, to name but a few. We Swedish democrats take welfare seriously. We are the party that invests most of all parties in welfare. When other parties prioritise welfare for the benefit of other issues, we stand up in every debate for the sick and for the elderly. We will continue to do so in municipalities, county councils and here in Parliament. In our budget we make major investments in several welfare areas. It is about more care places, the introduction of a medical guarantee, an expanded psychiatry and a strengthening of palliative care, i.e. care in the final stages of life. Strengthening palliative care is something that we have been running for a long time here in Parliament. Unfortunately, however, we have not heard from the other parties on this issue. Improving care at the end of life is an extremely important area, so that anyone in need of palliative care, regardless of age and place of residence, can receive it from competent and well-trained staff. Unfortunately, that is not the case today. For us Swedish democrats, it is extremely important to have equal and equal care regardless of where in the country you live. That is why we have in every context advocated more binding national guidelines for obtaining more equal health care in the country. We have also advocated free outpatient care for those over 85 years of age. The government also wants to introduce this now, which is a good thing. But we want to go one step further and also introduce free inpatient care for those over 85 years of age. Mr President, I would like to When you talk about welfare, you should not forget all the heroes who work in this important area. Employees are the most important resource of welfare. That is why we want to introduce full-time rights for those working in the public sector. But we also want to introduce the right for them to go down on time and work part-time. We also propose the abolition of the first day of withdrawal in professions with a high risk of infection in the public sector. That's a good measure. The benefits are multiple, not least from a patient's perspective. Patients should be able to be sure to be received by healthy staff who do not spread the infection further. The employer will also be more attractive. Often it is extremely difficult to bring in vicaria when, for example, winter shrimp disease is ravaging at its most. As a staff, you must consider the risk of becoming ill yourself and bring the disease home to your family. In addition, there is a risk of losing money in the process. We do not believe that it is reasonable for staff in these important professions to have to go to work for financial reasons. Mr President, I would like to As I said earlier, it is important to make the right political priorities. We believe that the government does not do so in several areas. A recent example is the government's proposal for a legislative change that gives municipalities the right to raise home care fees for the elderly. This means that the elderly's home care fee can increase by several thousand SEK per year. According to the proposal, 78 000 people are expected to receive an increased fee, which is equivalent to a quarter of those in home care. About twice as many women as men are home helpers. Increased contributions therefore primarily affect older women. If the government is serious about the fine words in its budget on gender equality and about investing in women and weak groups, these priorities seem to be completely wrong. Once again, it can be seen that it is the Swedish Democrats who believe that the elderly should take part in the welfare that they have been involved in building up. Mr President, I would like to We will never forget those who said this would never happen. But we will also remember those who warned and suffered. These words are more topical than ever. The large number of refugees now coming to Sweden puts severe pressure on health care and dental care in the country. MSB warns of displacement effects and risks to life and health. This means, in concrete terms, that patients' lives and health are at risk. This is very serious. This morning, before this debate, I made an updated picture of the situation in the country. In Dalarna it is stated that the emergency times in dental care are not enough anymore. In Norrbotten it is stated that patient safety is threatened, that you do not have time for the planned care and that the queues will grow. Last time there was an alarm from Blekinge that thousands of women will not be called for cell testing this year as planned. The reason is that the number of enrolled patients has increased significantly due to an increase in the number of refugees in the county. In Blekinge, doctors have warned that in the worst case, this could lead to cell changes not being detected in time. All of us who work or who have worked in healthcare and care know that this is very serious. So we are faced with an unsustainable situation in which the interests of sick people, the weak and the elderly are being put against the interests of newcomers. That is extremely unfortunate. All the parties that have been involved in allowing this refugee policy are to blame for the situation we find ourselves in today. The situation we have in this country has not come out of thin air. It has been created through a conscious policy and decision-making and has brought us to where we are today. Being a politician is a priority between different interests. In Sweden, the elderly and the sick should not have to iron their feet as an effect of a completely failed immigration policy. It is this policy that we are now unfortunately seeing the effects of. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to refer to the special opinion of the Swedish Democrats.
i-de2172d592422bd6-642	Mr President, I would like to I have to ask the Swedish Democrats a question. Your budget seems rather hopeless to penetrate. It's hard to read what you really want to do. You say yes to everything, and I will soon tell you why you do it. You are talking about immigration as a major threat. I thank everyone who has come here for hundreds of years. It's about Chileans and Bosnians and the Syrians that are coming. Because they enrich our country. We have some different settings there. You're doing an old tune from the 1930s, and it feels kind of odd. However, if the Swedish Democrats' budget were to apply, state subsidies to municipalities and county councils would gradually be cut annually from 94 billion to 41 billion in 2018. This represents approximately 10% of all municipalities' budgets, 100,000 employees and 3 percentage points of increase in municipal tax. Then we're talking about collapse, and then we're talking about breakdown. I just have one question for you, Per Ramhorn. How will welfare be guaranteed with such extreme cuts?
i-de2172d592422bd6-646	Mr President, I would like to I thank Karin Rågsjö for the question. It was good that you asked this question. The Swedish Democrats do not propose any savings at all on welfare. What the government now, together with the Left, chooses to do is to call immigration costs for welfare costs. But we don't. We believe that welfare issues are about good and accessible healthcare. I knew the question would come. When you read a budget, it is good if you read the whole budget and not just pull out certain figures. In our budget exercise, which is available online, everyone can read that we do not make any savings at all when it comes to the addition to municipalities and county councils. On p. 199 in the printed version, which I am now holding up, it is clear that everyone can see that we are not doing so. Of course, a budget is difficult to read, but it can still be requested to read the whole budget – including the end.
i-de2172d592422bd6-649	Mr President, I would like to Then we note that you are going to make huge cuts because of myths, Per Ramhorn. If you cut state subsidies to municipalities and county councils from 94 billion to 41 billion, something will happen. You often speak of the great collapse and collapse; you have cultivated that image for a long time now. Should you follow your policy, however, I think we would all be allowed to go out into the swamp and look up in heaven.
i-de2172d592422bd6-650	Mr President, I would like to Again, so that not a lot of myths should flourish: In our budget motion there is black on white that we do not. Welcome to read it afterwards, Karin Rågsjö. What I wonder is how the Left Party views itself to welfare, given that, according to studies, health care is becoming less accessible to the resident population and Swedish citizens, for example in Blekinge. That would have been interesting to know. I know I don't get an answer because Karin Rågsjö is not entitled to any more lines, but I will return.
i-de2172d592422bd6-652	Mr President, I would like to It may well be that the Swedish democrats in their budget motion do not make any cuts when it comes to health care. That is not the big problem with the Swedish Democrats' budget, but the big problem is that it is a budget that would not go together at all if it were put against reality. You assume in your budget that you can get rid of all the costs of receiving the people who are in Sweden and of taking care of the people who have come here before. By saying that you do not want to help any people on the ground here in Sweden, you simply delete those costs in your draft budget. You pretend they don't exist. It is clear that the Swedish Democrats may want to take all the people who have come to Sweden and say, "Go away!" Go home! Go back! Whether there is a home to go to or whether there is a state that is prepared to receive those citizens or not. It's about people who have fled for their lives. It costs money to save lives. It is a priority that I am glad that all the other parties in this Parliament have been prepared to do. My first questions to the Swedish Democrats are: Do you seriously think your budget would last? Do you think that the money you pretend you can remove could be used in health care and care in reality? You think that by a club team you could get rid of the costs of people who are already here today – people who have come here to save lives.
i-de2172d592422bd6-656	Mr President, I would like to I'll answer briefly. Yeah, I think our budget goes together. Otherwise, we would not have presented our draft budget.
i-de2172d592422bd6-657	Mr President, I would like to I can at least thank you for a clear answer. I guess the answer has to stand by itself. My next question to the Swedish Democrats, Per Ramhorn, is that about 600 000 people with foreign origin go to work every day. One in four doctors was born outside the Nordic region. I'm talking about nurses, gynecologists, primary health doctors, physiotherapists, surgeons and midwives. You can list every professional category, not to mention all the people who work in home care. These are people who were born somewhere else than in our country. Very many of them have come here because they have fled. I have met many municipal representatives. I have met many healthcare employers who say that it is because people choose to flee to Sweden and not from Sweden that we have the conditions to have employees in many of the welfare professions that are a prerequisite for all of us who are born here, and those who have come here, to receive good care and care. My next question to the Swedish Democrats is therefore: do you see what a huge contribution the people who have come here are doing because they have been protected here? Do you see what a huge effort they are making for our country?
i-de2172d592422bd6-661	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your final question. Yes, after working in health care for 25 years – a lot in home care and care for the elderly – I see that many of my colleagues with foreign background are doing an amazing job and are excellent. I wouldn't want to be without them. But that is not what this is about; it is about the refugee policy we have today. Emma Henriksson cannot admit that what is said today is reasonable, with the inflow Sweden has and the evasive effects one sees. The alliance parties have also turned 180 degrees in the question, more or less with the knife on the throat. So do not say that we blame the immigrants themselves! We blame the policy of which you in the Alliance government were architects. It is not the immigrants' fault, it is the policy that has been wrong. So have you in the Alliance and the government now.
i-de2172d592422bd6-663	Mr. Speaker, Members of Parliament, Minister Wikström – it's nice to have you here – and all of you listening! The welfare must be there for all the people of our country. Regardless of people's place of residence, education, gender and ethnic or socio-economic background, well-being must be close, accessible and of good quality. Good, efficient and safe care in all life's events are two of society's most important commitments. Sweden is a rich country in the world, and the basis for our prosperity is that our economy is competitive, that the conditions for entrepreneurship and small business are good and that taxes are reasonable. If the opposite is the case, in an increasingly internationalized world jobs are moving out quickly and the national economy is moving backwards. This will also reduce tax revenues and resources for health and long-term care, for example. More people in work mean more for sufficient tax revenues for municipalities, county councils and state than ever so many targeted state subsidies in different directions as left-wing parties around the world – and in Sweden – always compete to distribute from their many targeted tax increases here and there. In its state budget, the Center Party is therefore investing heavily in entrepreneurship and jobs, which in the long term provides more resources for healthcare and care. The welfare policy of the Center Party is locally cultivated. This means that healthcare and care should be based on the individual and that people should have influence over welfare services. That's just how power moves from politicians to patients, users and relatives. The red-green government's plans to abolish freedom of choice reforms and make it more difficult for private welfare providers would mean turning the clock back to a time when people lacked the means to influence their own health care. Instead, the conviction of the Center Party is that people must have more, not less, say about the shape of welfare. Therefore, we want to carry out more reforms to strengthen the influence of the individual – man – over his welfare. Older people who need support at home should have the right to decide for themselves who will offer the support, no matter where they live in the country. That is why all municipalities in the country must be able to guarantee freedom of choice. It should also be possible for people over the age of 85 to decide for themselves, through a retirement home guarantee, when it is time to move to a shelter or to a care home. Social services must take greater account in their aid assessments of the anxiety and anxiety that many people over 85 years of age, and even under, can experience. Freedom of choice also needs to be strengthened as regards the content of welfare services. Anyone who is now entitled to care for the elderly under the Social Services Act will be granted an aid measure on the basis of an aid assessment. However, some municipalities have begun to look at models of care for the elderly without aid assessment. One example is my municipality of residence, Linköping municipality, where the individual can turn directly to the performer, private or public, to get a certain contribution. The so-called Linköping model has, after evaluations, proved to be highly appreciated by the users but is contrary to the current provisions of the Social Services Act. Therefore, the Center Party believes that the Social Services Act should be reviewed based on how it can be possible for all municipalities to legally offer simplified aid assessments. This would increase the influence of older people over their care. But it also means great relief in the administrative work of social services – something that is more important than ever today, since many of the country's social services are overloaded. Ensuring freedom of choice and self-determination is also important for other groups in society. One example is people with disabilities. The Act on Support and Service to Certain Disabled Persons, LSS, is a law of rights that allows people with major disabilities to live under the same conditions as others. The LSS and, in particular, the assistance reform have become freedom reforms for people with extensive disabilities. They are based on the principle that those who need assistance should have the power to decide for themselves who should provide assistance and how it should be carried out. For the Center Party, LSS is an important reform to protect and develop. Of course, these resources should also be used cost-effectively, correctly, under good supervision and control– well up-to-date these days. Persons with a need for assistance of more than 20 hours per week for basic needs are today entitled to assistance compensation from Försäkringskassan. For this group there is a wide variety of assistance providers to choose from, allowing the individual user to control his or her own assistance. However, in the case of persons in need of 20 hours of assistance per week or less, the municipality is responsible. At present, this group does not have the same freedom of choice as the person receiving assistance from the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. The Center Party therefore believes that the compensation for municipal assistance should be reviewed on the basis of how the individual's freedom of choice can be guaranteed. For the Center Party it is obvious that all users should be given equal opportunities to decide over their own assistance and thus be involved in social life. This, Mr President, was some impact on the state budget for Category 9 Health, health and social care – a very large and important area of society that we are discussing here today. I also refer to my special opinion and that of the Centre Party in this area of expenditure. The Centre Party will abstain in the vote, because unfortunately our budgetary option has not won a majority.
i-de2172d592422bd6-675	Mr President, I would like to Staffan Danielsson! You in the Center Party have won the race for cuts of EUR 6 billion in this area of expenditure. In the different budgets of the Alliance, it looks very different. But you have made cuts of 6 billion and are the ones who have cut the most. Did you say locally? You have to grow a lot to catch up with 6 billion, I think. I have a question about the funds that we from the Left have budgeted with the S and the MP in terms of maternity care. Childbirth care around Sweden looks very different. What we know when it comes to women's health is that half of all women who choose to give birth vaginally, ordinary childbirth, receive different types of injuries. This can only be prevented with better care and care. The funds we bring in are 400 million a year to go directly to maternity care. You say no to that. Then I wonder what reason you have for saying no to the 400 million a year, while cutting 6 billion in the whole area of expenditure. I think that would be very interesting to know.
i-de2172d592422bd6-679	Mr President, I would like to Left parties around the world and in Sweden are world champions in raising taxes on the dinghy and the dinghy and then handing them out in targeted money here and there. Karin Rågsjö is at the medal place in bringing this to the fore in this and similar debates in this area – as if everything stood and fell with the targeted contributions. The state budget in this area of expenditure is EUR 69 billion. The costs incurred by the municipalities of the country in the area of the elderly alone amount to 109 billion. In total, municipalities pay out 560 billion, of which 38 billion are state subsidies. Landstingen's costs are 294 billion, of which 209 billion are tax revenues and 37 billion are government subsidies. It is true that the Center Party, like our colleagues in the alliance parties, spends less on targeted state subsidies on Category 9. The Center Party's budget options are a major investment in more jobs in Sweden and reduced exclusion in all forms through efforts on more competitive conditions for the business community, for small and large companies. We lower employers' contributions for young people, we reduce the regulatory burden and we lower taxes for companies, where Sweden is higher than countries in our surrounding world. While the government is raising taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship by 28 billion, we are cutting taxes on this by 29 billion. When more people come to work, Karin Rågsjö, tax revenues for municipalities, county councils and states increase, while the cost of exclusion decreases. It adds more resources to health care, school and care than ever so many targeted state grants. Therefore, the Center Party budget is an offensive one that creates many tens of thousands more jobs and thus also provides more resources for health care. There are the alternatives between the red-green parties and the alliance parties.
i-de2172d592422bd6-683	Mr President, I would like to Staffan Danielsson did not answer the question about the 6 billion. That sounds absolutely fantastic, you who are a neo-liberal party! You didn't answer the question either about the births and the 400 million we're going in with. And I can understand that, because you have completely different priorities in terms of what you support and do not support. You stand by the interest deductions of 32 billion a year, the RUT and ROT deductions of 18 billion and 99 billion that you had as a job tax deduction. The 10 percent that are the richest in Sweden owns nearly 70 percent of the wealth, and the absolutely richest owns 1,800 billion together. It is the neoliberal policy that we have had in Sweden for quite some time. You didn't answer my question about the births. You are cutting 6 billion in the whole expenditure area, in health, social services and assistance. How do you think something can get better with a cut of 6 billion? How can anything get better with the cuts you make? After all, you're taking away a lot of money, even in comparison with your alliance partners. You have still not answered the question: How can the women who today come in for childbirth be guaranteed a decent birth with your 6 billion cutbacks in the whole spending area? It doesn't sound very local, if you say so.
i-de2172d592422bd6-687	Mr President, I would like to My colleagues from the alliance parties have reported well how we built Sweden during the alliance years, increased jobs and got more resources, many tens of billions, to the welfare. What Karin Rågsjö is discussing is maternity care, mental care and eyeglass benefits. She asks why we give a little less on these points. These are important areas to be covered in the county councils' and municipalities' jobs with them. But the big money is there and comes in through tax revenue, which our policy promotes. Leftist politics is free medicine for all children, free glasses for all children and free admission to museums. The Left Party also talks about free public transport to everyone, free bread and so on. It's not free, Karin Rågsjö. There's always someone paying, and it's the taxpayer. If something is free, the use can increase and become worryingly high. This applies, for example, to medicines. I think it's better that it costs something when you buy something than that everyone gets it for free, including Karin Rågsjö, those who have plenty of money. We have systems to ensure that those with small resources can get support to buy what they need. For example, we have high-cost protection, which reduces what a family of children needs to pay for medicines, and we have financial assistance. What Karin Rågsjö does not mention is that you raise the maximum ceiling for home care for the elderly, making home care for a poor pensioner 2 000 – 3 000 SEK more expensive per year. The Center Party won't agree to that.
i-de2172d592422bd6-693	Mr President, I would like to To cover in six minutes probably the widest area of expenditure we have to discuss in Parliament cannot be done. There'll be a few knocks. In addition, two important actors with a great responsibility in this area cannot be involved in the debate, namely municipalities and county councils. As a result, the debate is limping a little. Liberals invest in their budget in jobs, knowledge and defence. Jobs and knowledge are a long-term effort so that we can also take advantage of all the skills that people from other countries bring to our country. We have already heard how many born in other countries work at all levels of health care, from nurses and nurses to doctors. We have presented a tight budget, because we realise that Sweden has major challenges in the future. We believe that the state should not go in with money where county councils and municipalities have the main responsibility and where there is a lot of resources to collect. Västra Götaland has made a good decision based on what has been done in Lidköping. Here, the cost of multi-sick people has been reduced by 185 000 a year. It's huge money. 20 – 25 people receive better quality care and care while saving money for municipalities and county councils. Yes, it covers the costs of those midwives who were up for debate. There are other things to do too, such as focusing on the situation of aid handlers. What do they have to do and not do? As I said, the state should invest in what is the responsibility of the state. It is legislation, quality assurance through public authorities, guidance and such. However, the state should not invest in things where the county councils themselves should do the job. Then it will be both better for the people involved and more cost-effective. In the quality comparisons we see how different it looks. Cancer care is one example, the mammography is another. If I were the county director and saw that I was the worst in the line, I'd put on a coal to be the best in the league. The state should invest in improving knowledge. That is why we are investing in upgrading the skills of certain professions. As Christina Örnebjär was involved in the previous debate, we also want to strengthen the protection of the most vulnerable children. Here we have set aside considerable amounts. I'm worried about the drugs. I have worked with it a lot in other contexts and learned that if something costs for free there is a great risk of overuse. It may be tempting to increase the antibiotic medicinal product for this age group. I hope that the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare and the Swedish Medical Products Agency will put a lot of effort into monitoring how antibiotics are sold to children with this initiative. The emphasis on glasses for children, even if it is not a question of full funding, on medicines for children and on mammography sounds good. But if you have introduced a benefit, it is difficult to withdraw it in tough times. It is better that the government invests in more short-term measures that can be evaluated and then decide whether or not it should continue. The Liberals' budget motion is a whole. It has fallen, so that is why we will abstain from this vote. Of course, we support our particular opinion.
i-de2172d592422bd6-705	Mr President, I would like to People in the inner city of Stockholm are the ones who crack the most antibiotics, but the discussion about what this increase is due to we have to take another time. I thought I'd talk a little bit about women's health. Feminism hasn't made it through health care. It is about increased knowledge about diseases that women suffer from, treatment and so on. This applies specifically to those women who have short education and poor economics. The health gap between them and women with academic education is astronomical. The Left Party has negotiated 130 million in targeted efforts. That might sound like a sum of money. But by targeting money you get started a job in county councils, and something needs to be done. The mortality rate in the 35-64 age group is twice as high for women with pre-secondary education as for women with tertiary education. It's a class question. Class and health are clearly linked. I believe that we need to make targeted efforts to get work started in primary care, for example, and to find structures and strategies to reach the most vulnerable. We have not come there, but that is what we do with this money. The whole of the former Alliance has said no to this, including the Liberals. What were you thinking here, Barbro?
i-de2172d592422bd6-710	Mr President, I would like to It is again a question of burden-sharing. The Swedish Public Health Agency has information and a lot of knowledge that county councils and municipalities are free to use. Then that's where the responsibility lies. The state has assumed its responsibility and developed the knowledge, and county councils, municipalities and regions have a responsibility to convey it. When it comes to going in with some extra money, I think that the money in this tight budget can be used for other purposes. Otherwise you might sit back in the county councils and say: That's what the state does instead. It's gonna be wrong. We will keep a firm eye on the division of responsibilities between the state, municipalities and county councils.
i-de2172d592422bd6-713	Mr President, I would like to Liberals are spending 2.4 billion less. The various ex-alignment parties spend a little different money. If you look out in the county councils you see that it looks very different how you work. With targeted efforts you can get an entire country started so that it thinks a little more structurally. The Public Health Agency has a lot of reports and a lot of material. All the parties in this Parliament have known for a long time that the health gap is large, and it is also known in the country. Then you have to get the work started in different ways. When you look at what methods there are and how you work with structured efforts to reach out and try to find the women who have short education, who do not go to mammography studies and who die prematurely, you can see that there is very little method development in Sweden. It is in Malmö, because they worked with the Malmö Commission there. But it is not teeming with health centres and primary care that has it. It's been way too slow. With this money we want to whip a little and get the country to think in the right direction. We must at some point come to a consensus and look at those who are furthest away from health care. It is they who need care best, and it is they who should be given priority.
i-de2172d592422bd6-718	Mr President, I would like to In fact, the Minister of State and the Minister for Public Health should get into the debate. A Commission has been launched to tackle just unequal health. If I am not completely wrong, there will be proposals on how to narrow the gap. We may increase it at first because it is usually those with the highest level of education who take on the messages. I can see these developments in other countries, where the gap has increased because smoking has been tackled among the well-educated but not among the low-skilled. We may hear more about this work in the Government's speech. We in the Liberals are not prepared to spend special money that goes alongside the other work. It gets messy then in politics.
i-de2172d592422bd6-721	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. The areas we are debating today concern the very essence of general welfare. It is about our right to be safe and feel involved even when health, functions or care fail. It can happen to us or our relatives at different stages of life. It is about health care, care for the elderly, social services and social care, which covers all of us and which we all protect, albeit in different ways. The efforts presented by the government in the draft budget are therefore welcome. After many years of tax cuts and cuts in welfare, we can now invest in quality and equality in health care, in vulnerable groups and in closing the health gap for one generation. It is good to be able now to point out the investments and proposals that were requested in this House earlier. Mr President, I would like to In Sweden we have a very well-functioning healthcare that we all have the right to take part in and that has very good results internationally. The solidarity-funded healthcare provided as needed is well established and has a high level of confidence in the population but also needs to be protected when it is exposed to challenges and pressures from the outside world. We Social Democrats are concerned that health is unevenly distributed in the population as well as that there are signs that care is not divided in an equal way and that the results are different depending on socio-economics or geography. Irregular access to high-quality modern care, as well as a lack of accessibility, also risks reducing our confidence in health care in the long term. It is therefore to be welcomed that the government's billion-dollar investment in maintaining and developing quality, as well as the professional billion that provides the opportunity for better conditions for health professionals to use and develop their professional skills and, in the long term, also improve the conditions for retaining and recruiting staff. In their difficult and important occupations, staff need good administrative support and more efficient organisation and division of labour. This is particularly important in view of the rapid development of healthcare. In this context, it is also worth emphasising how important it is to harness the resources and skills that the newly arrived Swedes with foreign health care education bring with them. It is essential to validate their knowledge and experience as quickly as possible. To meet the challenges of the future and the demands of modern people, healthcare needs to become more health-oriented and person-centred. Today, health care is too much of an organisational perspective. Instead, the perspective needs to be the patient's, and care needs to be coordinated around the patient and guided by his needs and participation. It is therefore welcome with the agreement reached between the Government and the Swedish Municipalities and County Council on accessibility and coordination for a more patient-centred care. Another good example in this context is the follow-up of whether the new patient law is living up to the intentions of the law. Such health promotion and person-centred care is of particular importance for people who often come into contact with different parts of the healthcare system. These include, for example, people with chronic diseases. We Social Democrats therefore welcome the efforts to develop the prevention and treatment of chronic diseases. We also see great opportunities around the already decided and agreed effort to shorten waiting times in cancer care, to make care more equal across the country and to work with standardised care processes. For patients with such a severe disease, it is of particular importance to feel secure and trust in an equivalent quality of care. Health care needs to be adapted to a changed disease panorama. One of the scourges of our time is the increase in mental illness. Especially worrying is the fact that many children and young people claim to be mentally ill. The government's efforts at early detection and rapid action at school and youth clinics are valuable for meeting ill health but also for developing effective care. Mr President, I would like to We live longer and better and better in our country. That is a good measure of what our general well-being has achieved. But we cannot be satisfied with the unequal distribution of health in the population. It is not acceptable to distinguish as much as five years in life expectancy between the highly educated and the low-skilled. The government has appointed a Health Commission to work on the state of knowledge on the issue. Of course, we look forward to the results of their work. Mr President, I would like to As with health care, elderly care needs to be much better at meeting the individual's needs and wishes. As an elderly person, you must be able to trust that care is of equal quality wherever you live and that I, as an old person, can be a part of my everyday life and have a continued influence on my life. Care for the elderly needs spaces to focus on the care provider and not just to think about pressing prices. It is in the meeting between the elderly and the care staff that quality is created, and then there must be conditions for this in an adequate staffing and with the necessary skills. It is time to realize that the older we get, the more different we become, with different demands and wishes. Working to give older people a dignified old age is one of the most qualified things you can imagine. This requires a high level of competence and flexibility among staff. Therefore, it is very gratifying that the government is investing in staffing, quality and competence, as well as investments in new construction, reconstruction and other efforts aimed at the elderly. We also welcome the support for dementia sufferers and look forward to the outcome of the work that the investigators of the national quality plan are due to leave in spring 2017. Mr President, I would like to Reduced functions should not be an obstacle to participation in society, having influence and being able to control one's life. The 2016 budget contains several important proposals to remove the barriers to people's participation and to provide opportunities to create conditions for a society on equal terms. A national regulatory framework for assistive devices is important for more equal access to high-quality assistive devices. We look forward to the anti-discrimination law being reviewed and broadened in order to create a level playing field. In the process of creating a fairer society, it is essential that the user organisations of disabled people participate with their specific skills and members' experience. It feels good that the grant, which has remained still for several years, is now being increased. Mr President, I would like to In particular, it is the fact that our joint efforts are directed at children who are vulnerable because of failing care of various kinds. The large influx of refugees brings many children, which requires special efforts to create a hopeful future and a continued good life for them. This applies not least to the lonely children. Already before this autumn's large influx of refugees, significant parts of social services were under severe pressure. The social secretaries in the country are doing a great and important job, and they need resources and encouragement to continue to do a good job. Not least, work for children requires support and encouragement. Therefore, the government's efforts to increase staffing, as well as investments in skills and quality, are absolutely necessary. The support for families with children is also being increased, which is to be welcomed, and we Social Democrats think it is absolutely right that even poor families should be allowed to make their decisions at the kitchen table about how they want to organise their children's leisure time in the best way. Recreational activities are important for children, and it is therefore welcome that municipalities have more resources to arrange them during summer holidays as well. Children's welfare and woe are among the most important tasks we have, and therefore it is essential to follow the work of the national coordinator. Securing children's perspectives and participation in social care, as well as supporting the good practice of social secretaries, is of great importance. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child will become a law in Sweden. R egerin gene's vision is that Sweden will be one of the best countries for children to grow up in. That vision, Mr President, must apply to all children of all origins, and the Convention is binding on all of us to live up to it.
i-de2172d592422bd6-747	Mr President, I would like to A troubled pensioner reminded me the other day of the promise carousel. A year ago it sounded like this in many seniors' phone when Stefan Löfven called up on a computer: Something has broken in Sweden and in the welfare. A year later, the Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency states: There is now a risk of life and health, a risk of displacement effects. It is noted after a year with Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister and with the left-wing government as responsible. The challenges of health care are clear. There are several of them, and they are growing. Waiting times are increasing, staff shortages are causing health departments to close. For Christmas and New Year's holidays, it's tougher than ever. Today, the place of residence determines survival and cancer care. In Kalmar today it takes three times longer to get care than in Dalarna, for example. I absolutely believe that Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson is well aware of the challenges. She mentioned some of them, but many more remain. That is why I am puzzled when it comes to billions of investments, despite the fact that the billion-dollar investments that Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson expects are less than 1 per cent of the total amount of Swedish health care. According to the Parliamentary Investigation Service, it is 0.74 per cent. If it is 0.74% who is going to solve the demands of care, I would like to have a list of the measures that Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson and the Social Democrats intend to take and which will cover and solve all this, now that everything is going to be enough for everyone. AnnaAnna-Lena Sörenson, where are the proposals? Where are the reforms to address the key health challenges, including queues, to mention one of the challenges?
i-de2172d592422bd6-752	Mr President, I would like to Cecilia Widegren mentions a number of challenges that I think we agree that we see. There we need to join forces in order to resolve them in the long term. But I cannot see how the challenges can be solved by minus 4.1 billion to our spending area, to health care, social care, care for the elderly. Cecilia Widegren talks about worried older people, but where are the Moderates' own initiatives? It says no to all the reforms that we are proposing. 4.1 billion less and more tax cuts are proposed. Eight years with the Moderates of government have not led to improved welfare. Rather, it has led to large gaps in welfare with fewer employees in publicly funded care than in the 1990s with the major crises. How are these challenges to be solved?
i-de2172d592422bd6-754	Mr President, I would like to This line shift is symptomatic. I don't get answers to my questions. That's why I thought I'd repeat them. I note that the Social Democrats argue that 0.74% of the investment in the overall health care system will solve the cracked welfare that was talked about in the 2014 election campaign. It's about the worries of the elderly. The reason the man contacted us was that the maximum rate in the home care service is likely to be increased in his municipality of residence. It is the Social Democrats who make sure that there are increased fees, that the maximum rate is increased. That is why there is concern among the elderly. AnnaAnna-Lena Sörenson and the Social Democrats! Where is the list of measures that the Alliance Government never presented, but which you are now going to present to address the challenges of healthcare? Specialized operations have increased by 12,000 since the cue billion was removed. It is a concrete and clear example of how waiting times are increasing. You choose not to focus on quality. You remove incentives for performance. Where are your proposals that should be so much better, which should shorten the queues in health care? Where are the concrete proposals? The bill list is empty. The action programme is empty. There are talks, but where are the concrete proposals that will make it possible?
i-de2172d592422bd6-759	Mr President, I would like to Cecilia Widegren is talking about a cracked welfare. It is strange that it has been able to crack in less than two years. It was more like eight years with large tax cuts, in the 100-billion-dollar class, and large outbringings in welfare that led to cracks, with fewer staff in health care, both in health care and in health care. I do not know whether Cecilia Widegren did not listen to my speech. I thought I presented a whole range of initiatives – actions, proposals, investigations launched, health commissions that work, agreements that have been made with the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils. I believe that the Government will also account for a great many of them. I can hand over the list as we have. By the way, I believe that Cecilia Widegren has access to our budget, which is clear. But how can the Moderates address the challenges we see with 4.1 billion less than what the government proposes in its budget?
i-de2172d592422bd6-762	Mr President, I would like to It's always interesting when we start debating welfare, because then it paints a picture of the last eight years as if they consisted only of cuts and tax cuts – as if the money people could keep in their wallets would have disappeared. No account is taken in the debate of the impact of the tax cuts, namely that more people got into work and more people were working more. In the RUT sector alone, a huge number of jobs were created thanks to tax cuts. In addition, the long-term nature of our economic policy meant that tax revenues were given room to grow, and in our years of government more than ever before it was invested in welfare. If AnnaAnna-Lena Sörenson has other tasks than spending more than ever before on welfare, it would be good if we in this House and those who watch the debate on television could have evidence of that. My question, Mr President, is about what the government will do in the future. We have a great challenge in taking care of the people who flee to our country. It is a priority we make because we are prepared to save lives. But when Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson sees that the costs will increase, she mainly has two proposals for how it will be financed. The main proposal is to cut into the LSS, i.e. to cut into the funds of those who are most vulnerable in our society. Do the Social Democrats mean that it is a wise welfare priority?
i-de2172d592422bd6-766	Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats invest 4 billion less than the government in this area of expenditure. When the alliance government handed over government ownership to the current government, unemployment was higher than when it took office in 2006. There were fewer employees in the public sector in health and long-term care than in the 1990s. The number of care places had decreased over these eight years. Now they want to continue along the same lines and propose tax cuts and less money for care and care. That is what Christian Democrats' policy means. Emma Henriksson raises the issue of LSS. The government budget proposes a revision of the LSS. I have seen nowhere that the Christian Democrats are opposed to that review. I think Emma Henriksson agrees that the costs have risen a lot and that you need to review the LSS so that the resources end up where they will end up and work best. There are big questions about this. I cannot see in the Christian Democrats' budget that more money is being allocated to the LSS or to disability policy at all.
i-de2172d592422bd6-769	Mr President, I would like to That wasn't the answer to the question I asked. When the Social Democrats now have government power and you see the need to finance important and urgent areas for people coming to our country, the Finance Minister has two answers to where to make cuts in the budget. That is precisely how it is expressed: as cuts for the coming years. It's the health insurance, and it's the LSS. Indeed, we have also seen the need to review how the LSS works today. But we do not think that one should go into that work with the ambition to cut back to cope with the reception of refugees or that it is one of the only things to do. We took a decision in the House last week on health insurance, where the government has chosen to remove the ceiling. It will very likely not mean that people will be healthier or safer, but that costs will increase. So there is not much of the funding to be collected there. The LSS, as I understand it, should be dieted according to the Social Democrats, not because you have used the money wrong, but because you need to cut back to prioritise other things. This is done despite the fact that the budget has a lot of reforms that we know are ineffective and go to people who do not need it at all. We are quite a lot of people in this country who have children and who feel that we are able to pay our children's medicine costs until we hit the ceiling for high-cost protection. There are quite a few of us who can afford to pay for our mammography and for the costs of all the other reforms that the government is doing and, as we know, is ineffective. But there the Social Democrats do not have the ambition to re-prioritise, but to strike at those who already have the toughest. I ask the question again: is there any evidence that we did not invest more in welfare than we have ever done before?
i-de2172d592422bd6-775	Mr President, I would like to The evidence is telling. There were fewer employees in publicly funded care when the new government took over from the old alliance government. Fewer care places is a visible proof as I see it. Emma Henriksson himself will be guilty of the answer. How can the Christian Democrats, with their proposals of 4 billion less in the budget, be able to meet the challenges and needs that we see in society today? I think it is telling that Emma Henriksson is highlighting the issue of free medicines for children. The Christian Democrats otherwise say that the parents themselves are wise enough to be able to control their lives and make decisions about what the family needs. I find it hard to imagine that parents, and even the medical profession, do not have a good judgment about drugs.
i-de2172d592422bd6-778	Mr President, I would like to I return to the division of responsibilities between the state, municipalities and county councils. If the government now spends more money to strengthen staffing in municipal elderly care, for which municipalities have responsibility, you wonder where it ends. Will the state take over all responsibility for the staffing bill? No, I don't think so. I'd like to call for a file. Is it possible to give Vårdsanalys a task to produce a current basis that answers why some retirement homes do well with the staffing they have at costs that are lower than for other accommodations that receive criticism? I mean, you probably need to have that kind of basis before you go on and just hand out money a little hello wild. That was my first question. My second question concerns the revision of the Discrimination Act. Is it only the part dealing with the situation of disabled people, or is it the whole width? What I see is that there are often complaints about treatment, and this applies not only in the area of the elderly and disability, but directly across whatever grounds of discrimination.
i-de2172d592422bd6-781	Mr President, I would like to As far as the division of responsibilities between state and municipality is concerned, I believe that Mr Westerholm and I are very much in agreement with regard to local self-government, or perhaps we are not. I think it is important to protect it, and that also applies to the regions and county councils. Barbro Westerholm was previously convinced that the state should be better at knowledge management. I agree. That's a wise thought. We should devote more effort to letting knowledge management operate in municipalities and county councils. I also think it's a good idea to have Care Analysis look at how retirement homes are managed and highlight the good examples. As far as care for the elderly is concerned, I also believe that Mr Westerholm and I agree that more room is needed for staff to develop more skills, train themselves and develop a more flexible attitude towards the elderly. It is a qualified profession to work with old people. We really need to strengthen care for the elderly. When the time comes for us to take part in it, we will place many other and higher demands on staff and care than we do today. I think Barbro and I agree on that.
i-de2172d592422bd6-785	Mr President, I would like to I think it's the leadership of the retirement homes that shines through. That is where the great effort should be made and perhaps not on counting the number of people who work there. With good leadership there will be low staff turnover and also a low number of sick leave. There's a lot of money in it. I would like to discuss a review of the Non-Discrimination Act. I would also like to know what the timetable for the Convention on the Rights of the Child is. I do not know how long we have been discussing this convention – year after year. It's a hard nut to crack. I look at Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson that she will need the help of someone else on that issue. I would also like to discuss leisure money, which has meant a great deal to low-income families with children. One should not be ashamed not to be able to send one's children to leisure activities. Why did you remove it?
i-de2172d592422bd6-789	Mr President, I would like to As far as the Non-Discrimination Act is concerned, it is mainly accessibility for disabled people that we are not satisfied with. It is going to a broader review to address it. Challenges can also be about accessibility in many cases. As far as the Convention on the Rights of the Child is concerned, Barbro Westerholm could see in my body language that I do not know. I'll leave it to the government if he can answer that. Otherwise, we will have to ask to come back to this. But I think that everyone thinks it is urgent that it be introduced and that we feel obliged to implement and comply with it. It is interesting that Barbro Westerholm takes up leisure money. Liberals tend to encourage people to control their own affairs. We have removed leisure money but instead raise the standard of livelihood, precisely so that parents and children can make their own decisions on this. We often hear from the bourgeois that the families themselves should be allowed to make their decisions around the kitchen table. It must also apply to poor families. I don't think you'd think of anything else. I agree with Barbro Westerholm that leisure is important. Therefore, it is good that there are investments in summer holiday activities, when the school is not open and much else is not available in the municipalities.
i-de2172d592422bd6-793	Mr President, I would like to The title of my question is: Problematic dependence of the Social Democrats on the Left Party. As more people get into work, tax revenues for municipalities, county councils and the state increase while the costs of exclusion are reduced. It adds more resources to health care, school and care than ever so many targeted state subsidies from targeted tax increases. Moreover, if the tax increases were to come from factors that reduce the driving forces to work and impair the competitiveness of companies, the overall effect would be particularly negative. The Left Party drives this and gets through targeted bets a little here and there. I mean, it's harmful, even if it sounds heartwarming. I just talked to Karin Rågsjö about the fact that it should be free. That is the question of principle I would like to discuss. There's a lot to be free of charge. I want to concentrate on drugs, free drugs for everyone under the age of 18. It's not free. It always costs. That's one thing. The second is that if something is free and you can requisition it there is a risk that the use increases and becomes too high. There is a risk that it is not only used by children but also goes to the whole family, as there are examples from other countries. It's hard to control. Drug consumption may increase. Isn't it better to pay something for what you're supposed to have? We have high-cost protection for an entire family of children, for all children. The cost of drugs is a maximum of 2,200 a year, I think. That's six crowns a day. Is it not reasonable to pay something for medicines so that it is not free? What does Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson say about the question of principle?
i-de2172d592422bd6-799	Mr President, I would like to I agree with Staffan Danielsson that there are no free lunches. In this case, we are talking about free medicines. It can also be said that it is a redistribution, from those who are a little better off to those who are less well off. There are families today who cannot collect medicines for their children. Isn't it worth betting on the most vulnerable? As I said to the previous speaker, I believe that parents have good judgment. I give them a judgment on medicines for the children. I do not think that medicine is being abused in general. I also believe that the medical profession has good judgment in prescribing medicines. Then I'm more concerned about what some parts of the care choices bring with them. In Stockholm, for example, we had increased prescriptions for antibiotics. Many doctors felt pressure to prescribe what the patients wanted. The patients gave marks in the visitor statistics, which gave money in the checkout to the health centres. If so, it is more troubling.
i-de2172d592422bd6-803	Mr President, I would like to I will return to the free choice of care another time. I think it has many virtues. This word thing is interesting. AnnaAnna-Lena Sörenson said it is not free; it is free of charge. You could say that. AnnaAnna-Lena Sörenson also said that it is a matter of redeployment from those who are a little better off to those who are less well off. But aren't the drugs free of charge for everyone, including the millionaire's children? Then there will be no redistribution. On the contrary, the reform is a gift to well-deserved parents. I stand by my basic view that it has an educational and real value to have a proper social security system and so on, but when you do something for free you release forces that cannot always be controlled. Much was certainly free in East Germany, Cuba, Poland and other countries. But they had very little economics. I hope that the Social Democrats and Minister Wikström in their practice will open up to freedom of choice reforms for which the Alliance has spoken and which have fallen well out. I hope they see the forces in this and are a little cautious about reforms that involve free services here and there.
i-de2172d592422bd6-808	Mr President, I would like to I believe in general welfare. It has brought great success to this country. We have good health and have succeeded in many areas. Much is due to the fact that welfare is just general. As I said in my speech, health care in our country has great confidence among citizens. The vast majority of us are prepared to contribute quite a large part of our income – about 10% – to health care despite the fact that most of us will not take advantage of it, but we turn to it when we have needs, and that is security in itself. We think it goes without saying that those who may have never paid a single crown in tax should have access to health care and have access to the very best health care of the highest quality. For me, it is a redistribution from when you do not have need to when you have need. We're going to take care of this in Sweden. A reform that allows people to afford medicines for their children without having to think about other priorities is well worth defending.
i-de2172d592422bd6-811	Mr President, I would like to The debates here in the Chamber can probably be interpreted as meaning that the differences between parties are much greater than they really are. The report we are now debating is about whether the state should contribute between 63 and 71 billion to the municipalities and county councils in order for them to carry out their health and social care tasks, and how the money should be spent. Of course it is a lot of money, but the difference between the highest and the lowest bid is only 8,322 billion, which of course is also a lot of money. But if you put that sum in relation to what the municipalities and county councils themselves, out of their own strength, spend on the area, it is about more or less about 1 percent of society's total investments that we disagree on in this debate on the level. Then there is only a part of the percentage where we have different views on how the funds the state is spending should be used. Nevertheless, there is room for parties to profile themselves, and for the individual it can be of great importance even with small adjustments between different expenditure items. For example, the 70 billion that the Conservative right-wing party wants to remove from the government's proposal for the validation of high-speed routes for healthcare professionals among the refugees who come to Sweden to get into work more quickly and be productive. It is a bet that has at least double winnings. On the one hand, they come with care training with them in their luggage, then more quickly into their own livelihoods, and on the other hand they manage the care apparatus better by receiving those with care needs, and on the other hand they get Sweden's healthcare faster to get the knowledge that is very likely to be found among those who flee. Added to this are all secondary gains outside the health care area. Several of the opposition parties reject the Government's proposal to extend the drug benefit with free medicines for children up to the age of 18. This is an example of one of the reforms we have developed to increase equality in health care. Then one might ask: what proposals does the opposition have in order to achieve more equal and equal care? In the field of public health and health, opposition parties are making a little different. It removes between 1 1⁄2 and 2 1⁄2 billion of the investments proposed by the government. It is about having a slightly different view of where the government money is best used to develop and improve the healthcare apparatus and care activities. Liberals are the ones who are the most tricky when it comes to hacking up the money into smaller bundles and posting it with targeted entries and regulations. In its proposal, the Government has the smallest number and largest posts where county councils and municipalities have the greatest opportunity to manage themselves according to their needs. With regard to the government's proposal to meet the growing mental ill health of children and young people with an investment of 280 million, the Conservatives and Liberals reject it. The Center Party removes 6 million of the government's increased support for disability organisations and the 90 million that the government allocates to further work on the ANDT strategy. The Moderates also choose to remove the Government's investment of 150 million in chronic diseases. I could go on with the list, but I'm not going to do it. I think it's so depressing to just keep going and line up these entries, but I'll just bring up a few more things. First of all, I would like to say – to ease the mood – that I am extremely pleased that the Rett Center has finally had its contribution upgraded after ten years, even if it is only with 2 million a year. It's amazing that the small group of women involved – there are about five people who fall ill each year and they live for about 20 years, so there are about 100 patients in Sweden who are affected by this terrible disease – can receive good quality care during their short life. So, Mr President, I would like to conclude by arguing against the 30 million that the Moderates choose to give to the country's social services for the support of children who are not able to manage school. It is such an effort that I understand is necessary for the Moderates to cover up shortcomings in their own school policy, but which is not needed with a government that invests in the field of school. You Moderates say no to the 600 million that the government gives the National Agency for Education for agreements with schools specifically for support to poor-performing students and of course also among new arrivals. You also say no to our investment in school libraries, and you're cutting 200 million for student health. You also say no to the 500 million we invest in more special teachers and special educators in school. The government also spends 390 million on aid for non-school homework and 150 million on school support during school holidays for pupils who need it. This, too, discourages the Moderates. If you take away all these efforts as you Moderates choose to do, then surely a great deal more than 30 million are needed for the country's social services to solve the problems that this entails when you do not provide support in basic activities. I support the committee's proposal in the report. Then I would like to make one comment. There are so many people who have stood in the speaker's chair and talked about that it is so very important to get money, and then it is tax cuts that apply. But there is no evidence of what you are standing here repeating time and again. As for Anders Bog's budgets during his eight years: the first year cost 4 million in tax cuts to create a job. The last budget cost $1 1⁄2 million to get a job. Instead of perhaps a well-trained youth cooking burgers – the jobs came from a hotel and restaurant – you could have had two nurses and a teacher. That means three jobs in welfare instead of one that cooks burgers. It is a reality, and there is evidence for it. That's how it works. I just wanted to add that, because I find the debate so boring when you keep coming back to something that is not true.
i-de2172d592422bd6-831	Mr President, I would like to How do we build equality? How do we create everyone's right to health? It is an obvious security that not many feel today. Insecureness is dangerous for a country and for a person. Based on healthcare and social care, the Moderates spend 4 billion less on welfare. Liberals spend 2.4 billion less on welfare. KD spends 4.035 billion less on welfare. And finally, the Center Party is spending 6.157 billion less. It's a race against health inequalities. It's about ideology and class perspective. The Swedish Democrats' budget is based on a large dose of myths. Should the Swedish Democrats' budget prevail, state subsidies to municipalities and county councils would gradually be cut annually from 94 billion to 41 billion in 2018. This represents 10% of all municipalities' budgets, 100,000 employees or 3 percentage points of increase in municipal tax. You often talk about collapse and collapse, but this would really mean the total collapse and breakdown of society. The Left Party wants to highlight equal health and feminist health care, as women are generally a very disadvantaged group in health care, specifically women with short education. We would also like to highlight the ticking issue that concerns us all: mental illness. We are proud but not satisfied with the issues we have managed to negotiate in the budget. Breast cancer is the most common cancer among women in the Western world, and it is increasing. About half of all breast cancer cases are detected in screening by mammography. The Cancer Society and the National Organization of Breast Cancer Associations advocate free mammography. Women with a short education, a weak economy or a foreign background make up the majority of the more than 150 000 who never come up with the general surveys. In resource-weak areas, where a large proportion of the population comes from countries other than Sweden, participation is low. In Bergsjön it is 54 percent, compared to Sävedalen's 84 percent. This is what it looks like throughout Sweden. That is why we have negotiated 100 million in 2016 and then 207 million per year during our term of office. We think this is an important reform. You in the former Alliance are welcome to call your friends in Stockholm County Council and ask why they do not remove this reform. They have a lousy economy, but this is what they depend on. Ask me why! Maybe you can learn something. The Swedish maternity and maternity care has a high medical quality in international comparisons. But almost every other woman who chooses to give birth vaginally suffers birth defects that affect the woman's sex life and cause incontinence and other physical problems. These are injuries that are reminded of every day. Reducing these injuries is a gender equality issue. That is why we are very pleased that we have negotiated funds for this in our budgets. If we look at the bourgeois budgets, we see that the Moderates and Liberals are also on this issue, which is gratifying. We want to invest in equal and equal health, because it benefits women. Then it is with free contraception up to 20 years of age. We would have liked it to have been introduced up to 25 years. Norrbotten has tested this for up to 26 years. Then it has also been about all contraceptives on the market. This has succeeded in halving unwanted pregnancies among young women. The Moderates and the Center say yes to the proposal. KD says yes, but without money. And I guess that's good. Then we agree on something. The whole area of mental illness would need billions to lift. An economic super effort is needed to meet the increased mental illness. We need to train psychologists, psychiatrists and mental health professionals. We need far more research, and we need a psychiatrist who meets his patients with respect and hope that it is possible to live with the diagnoses with which psychiatry is now relatively generous. Mental illness is no small problem. Mental illness accounts for just over one third of health insurance costs. That's quite a lot. Then you have to do different things. We have managed to negotiate 250 million a year during our term of office in order to meet mental health problems in young people, in addition to the billion available in this area. In the shadow budget of the Liberals, this particular initiative for mental illness has been removed. It is a matter of priority. You can prioritise cleaning aid with government grants – or mental ill health. That's what politics looks like. There are some political dividing lines. With 2 billion for 2016 and annually throughout the term of office, we have negotiated money for elderly care. It means a lot to me. This means 5,000 more employees from 2016 onwards. So much is needed to upgrade elderly care, because it's not on top everywhere. What older people say is that they need meetings with staff, continuity and training. This is how you meet the needs of elderly care. Women's health is underpriority. Feminism has not made any progress in health care. These include increased knowledge about diseases that women suffer from, patient exposure and methods of reaching patient groups that do not seek care. In short, it is about health inequalities. We need more efforts to reach those women who, according to all tables, are in a worse position: women with less education and poor economics. The mortality rate in the 35-64 age group is twice as high for women with pre-secondary education only as for women with tertiary education. Class and health go hand in hand. Now we want county councils to find models to work strategically with those who need healthcare most and who have not benefited from freedom of establishment. LOV has never been a success story for these women. Here's the cold hand from all over the Alliance. It's expensive to go to the dentist. Many young adults avoid going there unless the mom and dad are on the bill. This is also a class issue. You can see this clearly in the National Board of Health and Welfare's report from 2013, but you have read it, I hope. The change takes place in two stages. An increase is proposed from 21 in 2017 and then up to 23 in 2018, so it ticks on. This is an important equality reform, but you will say no to it. You, in the former Alliance, say total 'no' to virtually all the reforms dealing with equal health. You can think about that. The Left wants to see welfare built up and developed. As you can imagine, we would have preferred to see greater efforts that are seriously beginning to work towards equal health. It is not class, wallet or gender that should determine which health is given to you. It's about everyone's right to health. Clear priorities are then needed. Of course, I support the proposal in the report and the budget.
i-de2172d592422bd6-850	Mr President, I would like to As I have indicated in some previous shifts, Left Party and Karin Rågsjö are really specialists in raising taxes and distributing money here and there through various targeted grants, free services and investments. Then she asks: Why aren't you in on all this? Jan Lindholm delivered a truth in his speech. The difference between us that Karin Rågsjö talks about affects 1 per cent of the resources in care and healthcare in the country. There's not so much difference. But that's all Karin Rågsjö talks about. However much we raise taxes in a small export-dependent country, where prosperity depends on the competitiveness of our companies in a very hard international market, companies will continue to produce and compete. This is what Karin Rågsjö and the Left Party start from. But that is not the case, Karin Rågsjö. That is why it will be difficult to discuss with you. You're discussing 1%. We from the Center Party and the alliance parties want to expand the overall cake in Sweden through a policy that gets more people into work and allows our companies to develop, thrive and compete on the world market. That is why your budget option does not hold. With all due respect for commitment and for all worthy efforts, there will ultimately be less money for health care, school and care, as the development has shown through decades and centuries in all the countries where your sister parties have ruled.
i-de2172d592422bd6-854	Mr President, I would like to When the words fail, you take to the old Eastern crevice. I think we can stop doing that. It is kind of as if I were comparing you to some extreme neoliberal, Staffan Danielsson, but I can also do that, because you are in the Center. You have spent 6 billion less on the whole area. Then there will be consequences. You're standing here talking like we were having a debate in the Enterprise Committee. We don't. We're talking about health care. We are talking about childbirth – 50% of women have injuries. We're talking about unequal health. You never do. You're talking about free stuff. I can talk about 32 billion in interest rebates. I can talk about ROT deductions and RUT deductions. But here I'm not going to do it. Here we are talking about health care and social services. Then I can talk about 1 billion going to the vulnerable children in social services, so you can work better with them. Have you talked about them today? I haven't heard. You have the ability not to go into the subject matter that we are going to discuss. Sure, we can talk like we were standing here from the Enterprise Committee, if you feel like it. We can talk about the richest percentage in Sweden owns nearly 70% of the wealth. The billionaires now own the equivalent of 1,800 billion together. We can talk about that too. So it has become in Sweden after your eight years: open dampers for those who have it absolutely best. But those who have the absolute worst of it, you're not talking about. That's interesting. Why don't you talk about the issues?
i-de2172d592422bd6-858	Mr President, I would like to We usually land there in these debates. It is you and the Left Party who feel for people, humanism, basic security and so on while we want a raw and hard society that does not produce any welfare. I mean it's the other way around. I took examples of the countries where your sister parties have worked over the years and which have been impoverished. No matter how much free lunches you have had, it has become a whole that has been much worse. I can assure you that I am truly in favour of humanism, and I stand up for people's equal value. I want a prosperity society where the wealth-creating forces can thrive and where we get resources for childbirth care, vulnerable children and everything. It can be a little troubling for you to be questioned in your world view. I can understand that. I respect that you want well and believe that the solution is increased taxes and to allocate targeted subsidies covering 1% of the total budget. My conviction is that the solution lies in having a society that produces welfare through a competitive economy that creates jobs. I believe that in the long run it gives more money to health care, school and care than a policy that taxes off jobs. I can go through the various contributions and discuss how much is invested in total. I assume that county councils and municipalities have good resources in essence and use the money for a good maternity care, to stand up for vulnerable children and so on. Let's respect each other. Then we have different world views. That has been made clear today.
i-de2172d592422bd6-865	Mr President, I would like to You're talking about our sister parties. I don't even know who you're talking about. I'd like to say that first. If you are going to build a good social climate and stop the fascism that is growing throughout Europe, do you know what to invest in then, Staffan? You know that? You're supposed to invest in an equal society. Efforts should be made to curb unemployment. You should bet on a school that stays together. Your school didn't. You should invest in education, opportunities and giving people a chance. That's how you build an equal society. That's how you create a safe society. This is how to reduce the racism that exists throughout Europe. These are important issues. You're standing here deriding efforts that are just about it. It is about equal health and that the most vulnerable people that exist, such as women with low education and poor income, should have the opportunity to have free mammography and not pay. We are talking about 150 000 women who do not come to the mammography surveys. It is an equality reform and a health reform. You're talking about something completely different, about sister parties and a little bit of good. You are cutting the budget by 6 billion. That's it. When you look at what happened in your eight years, it was not that inequality in health fell in any way. No, actually, it didn't. You know what? Today, 12% of poor children still live below the poverty line. The kind of questions I think we should talk about.
i-de2172d592422bd6-870	Mr President, I would like to The right to life and health is a fundamental human right. The fact that people can be healthy and look forward to a long life is also a fundamental prerequisite for a successful society. Looking out over the world, we can see that this human right and prerequisite for development and progress has been denied to a great many people and is not a state that prevails in many countries. In this respect, Sweden can count itself happily. People have been able to experience for long periods that health developments have progressed, that the years have been added in terms of expected life expectancy, that the economic cake has grown and that people have been able to live in security and have confidence in the future. I would say that the basis for this development, the precondition for it, is the welfare model which, not least, the Social Democrats, together with several other parties in this House, have been involved in developing for decades. It is this model of society and what is at the heart of it – healthcare, social care and public health – that is what the debate is about. It is how we are to meet the challenges that are now waiting in the area that we need to discuss together. It is not a party, no individual Members, that will be able alone to address the challenges and strategic issues that the state now needs to engage in. We note that the prerequisites for our unique welfare model have been that it is jointly funded, general and needs-driven and that it also has a remarkable quality. Yet, as I said, it faces challenges. This is an increasingly globalised world, which is making both direct and indirect efforts on our systems. This is an ageing population, which means that people have an increased need for welfare services and also requires a higher quality than today's or yesterday's older people. But it is also a question of widening gaps. These challenges must be met on a broad front. One example of how we do that is the Commission on Equal Health. We are taking a wide-ranging approach to all policy areas in order to tackle the health inequalities that have increased in recent years. Another factor that we must acknowledge is that we are able to achieve closer cooperation with those who are the main beneficiaries of welfare services, i.e. municipalities and county councils. It is also in this light that the government's draft budget should be seen. Many of the investments we make in health care, even if they amount to only one per cent of the total budget in a single year, means that we create the conditions for the county council and state in particular to collaborate in urgent areas. One of the most important, since it is all about the quality of welfare, accessibility and the prerequisites for developing health care, is the supply of skills. Here I have been clear and said: the state cannot abdicate here. Here, the state cannot shift responsibility to county councils and say: It is an employer's issue, and we do not interfere with that. That is also why we now choose to propose an investment of SEK 1 billion for the so-called professional billion. It will lead to the cooperation that is necessary to reduce administration, free up time for professions and also enable efforts to be made to improve e-health and ultimately to improve skills provision. We also see that we need to make general reinforcements of the county councils' financial conditions. That is why next year we will add an extra billion to be distributed across the country in order to strengthen the conditions for carrying out good care. One area that has been extensively debated today is equality and equality in the field of health. Here we are now providing funds to increase access to healthcare. We have, among other things, initiatives against mental illness, which means that more children and young people can get to that type of activity. We have investments in maternity care and women's health. We have initiatives on women's health linked to primary care. We have further reform proposals that have been debated extensively but which are based on reducing disparities geographically, between the sexes and between different groups. If we can't do this, we can't increase equality in health care, we can't deal with the strategic issues, we can't increase equality, then we're facing a situation where the Swedish, unique welfare model is basically threatened. To conclude with a quote by Martin Luther King: Of all forms of inequality is probably, or rather, certainly, the worst form of injustice it is to deny people the right to equal health.
i-de2172d592422bd6-882	Mr President, I would like to Welcome, Minister, to the budget debate! The new rules today enabled the Government to participate earlier, but we are pleased that the Government is here in the budget debate. In the 2014 election movement, the Social Democrats argued that something has broken in Sweden and in welfare, despite the fact that the alliance government contributed 57 billion in welfare for a number of years, an increase of 26 percent, the largest ever in Sweden. Now the Social Democrats are no longer talking about something being broken. Now the Social Democrats are talking about billions of dollars. These are billions of dollars which are not increases of 26% and which are not even increases of 1%. The Social Democrats are now talking about investments of 0.74 per cent of the total health care in Sweden, according to the parliamentary investigation service. So behind the rhetoric is something less than 1%. Then we all know in here that the challenges of health care and welfare are enormous. They are now being financed by a tax shock on young and elderly people. The Government of Wikström has an empty bill list for the Riksdag. The Government of Wikström has not submitted proposals to Parliament for reforms to address future welfare challenges. Where are the reforms? Where are the concrete proposals? When are they coming to the Swedish Parliament?
i-de2172d592422bd6-887	Mr President, I would like to Cecilia Widegren used her opening speech – and also a large part of the time when she has replicated with other speakers here today – to criticise the government's policy, as expected by a leading opposition politician. But then, as Karin Rågsjö indicated earlier, I think that the debate has mostly focused on economic and labour market policy. I am happy to discuss enterprise policy, labour market policy and economic policy as a whole. Today, however, the debate is about health care. I believe that Cecilia Widegren's tactics of avoiding presenting her own proposals in the area of healthcare and, in addition, trying to turn the debate into dealing with the labour market and economic growth in general is one way of covering up the fact that there are no proposals of her own to address the challenges that I have talked about, among other things, that healthcare is now facing. Cecilia Widegren lacks proposals from the government," she says. At the same time, however, she has the nerve to criticise on point-by-point the long list of reforms that we are presenting in this budget and will launch from next year. My question to Cecilia Widegren is: How can you – given the great needs that Cecilia Widegren also sees in health care – invest 20 times more in tax cuts than on new proposals in health care?
i-de2172d592422bd6-891	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that on a specific question it is sometimes difficult to have a concrete answer. The proposal list after this replica is still empty. The concrete measures are still not in the Swedish parliament. What is to be achieved is put behind a billion-dollar bingo, which is about 0.74 percent that you bring to Swedish health care. This compares with the alliance government, which contributed over 50 billion in its time. In addition, we presented a number of concrete proposals for reforms: patient safety law, patient law, health guarantee, queue billions and national cancer strategy, to name a few. Once again, I believe that the Council is obliged to present to Parliament a number of concrete proposals that can make changes possible. The challenges have both been discussed. The proposals of the Moderates are on Parliament's table and will be discussed in the Social Affairs Committee during the spring. That's over 200 claims. I still miss the government's concrete proposals to Parliament. I understood in a previous change of line that social democratic efforts involved investigations, talks and commissions. In the Swedish parliament, concrete proposals are about proposals – about proposals, if you come from the government. Where are the proposals? What is it that will make the change, so that we get things in order, that accessibility increases, that queues are shortened, that we have a clear and good staff supply in the short and long term? Where are the concrete proposals? Welcome to the Swedish Parliament to present them! I hope – and I will be pleased – that the Government and the Social Democrats will take advantage of the other concrete proposals in the Social Affairs Committee to deal with this spring. There are many of them, and they are concrete.
i-de2172d592422bd6-896	Mr President, I would like to Cecilia Widegren asks about concrete proposals from the government. I must remind the honourable Member that today we are having a budget debate which is based precisely on a number of concrete reform proposals from this government in the area of health. I myself have listed the professional billions, one billion to go to strengthen the supply of skills in not least the county councils' operations. We have talked about the emphasis on women's health and women in maternity care. It's about 400 million. We have talked about the 130 million that the government is investing in primary care, also to meet women's health, and the 280 million that are going to face the rising mental illness of children and young people. I could continue with the figures and the examples of the reforms proposed by the government. But I have the feeling that nothing will bite Cecilia Widegren's argumentation. Cecilia Widegren lifts up the efforts that took place during the alliance government. There was much good in that area. The cancer initiative I myself have praised – and not least Göran Hägglund, when he ended up as a party leader – because I think it is important to be able to see when you can cooperate across the block line. I also believe that the Swedish parliament and the people of Sweden – I hope that at least some people look at this debate – understand that the 50 billion invested over eight years cannot, of course, be compared to what is invested in an individual budget. We have high ambitions in this area, and I look forward to continuing to make efforts in the area of welfare. However, I still lack concrete answers from Cecilia Widegren on the challenges of welfare.
i-de2172d592422bd6-901	Mr President, I would like to We are debating Category 9 on health and social care. It is based on the legislation we have on equality in these areas and on high quality and as needed. I think this is a basis on which we should keep and on which we should stand. What we have now discussed here has been a lot about how we remedy the inequalities that exist in mammography, childbirth, cancer care and all sorts of things. I don't think it's enough just to add extra money here and there. We need to get to the bottom of the reason why it looks like it does. After the speeches I have made in the past, it does not surprise you that I now come to the question of who is responsible for what and municipal self-determination. The Christian Democrats Göran Hägglund made a proposal a few years ago on nationalisation of health care. The Medical Association responded positively to this. And at the national meeting of the Liberals, it was concluded that a review of the division of responsibilities was needed, perhaps with a view to greater government responsibility. Is there such concern in the government? That would be interesting to hear.
i-de2172d592422bd6-905	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Westerholm for the questions. I am very pleased that we are focusing precisely on the challenges facing health care. The division of responsibilities is an important fundamental factor to take into account when we debate health care at national level. Just when we come to health care, we have in Sweden, despite the proud tradition of being a unitary state, a system that makes Sweden more like a federation like Australia, Canada or other countries. It is clear that with such a system it is not only for the Riksdag to make a law and that it is then implemented. Such a system is based on collaboration across different political boundaries, on the success of setting common goals but also on the determination of the pace and direction to get there. I do not think that nationalising health care would solve many of the problems and challenges that we have discussed here today. However, I believe that we need to have closer cooperation between county councils and states and between state, county councils and municipalities, since more and more healthcare is now conducted at local level. I see the work of the government on several fronts as crucial in this. Most important in this context is perhaps the focus on forming larger regions that the government is now determined to speed up. Fewer and larger regions do not only mean greater muscles to be able to meet the challenges. This also means that the conditions for closer cooperation between the state and county councils are increasing. This is an answer and a path that I would much rather go than have an over-reliance on the state solving everything.
i-de2172d592422bd6-911	Mr President, I would like to The Medical Association wrote in Svenska Dagbladet a few years ago: Many of our county councils are simply too small to cope with the heavy investments that are necessary to carry out healthcare in a rational, patient-proof and equal way. ..................................................... Måns Rosén's investigation into highly specialised care is in the same spirit. Of course I realize it'll be ditches wherever you draw the line. However, with the current limit, the patients' need for quality, equality and safety in healthcare is clearly not met, which they have the right to make demands on. Another demarcation can be envisaged and hospital care moves more towards the state and primary care goes more in the municipal direction. We have a ditch between primary care and care for the elderly. I gave an example from Lidköping. There, care and health care have been put together in, as it were, a tax bag and earn $15,000 per person per year. In addition, health care is improving. But I think you have to take a wider grip than to put in a coin here and a coin there. Then I think we need a national review of where borders and ditches should be.
i-de2172d592422bd6-918	Mr President, I would like to I think that we in the government are in the process of carrying out a national review and of working on bridging these ditches. I mentioned the work of forming larger regions. It is a clear sign that we have chosen the path but also the principle of the work. The regional level has a role to play in the future, but we need to change the boundaries and the size of the units in order to be able to fulfil their mission properly. Barbro Westerholm himself mentioned Måns Rosén's investigation. I'm very happy about that investigation. I think it can be a response to some of the challenges we see. If it is realised, this means that the state takes a certain increase in responsibility for health care – in this case the highly specialised care. In my speech, I have tried to describe how to look at the reform proposals that the government has put on the table of Parliament. I think they should be seen as parts of larger strategic sjok, i.e. larger strategic issues. We have outlined equality and equality. Under this heading, we can categorize quite a few of our proposals which will actually lead to better health for women, increased opportunities for children and young people, not least to reduce mental illness, but also greater accessibility in health care. I have outlined the professional billions, which means that we can now help each other and together tackle the challenge of skills supply. Of course, many more will be added to this. But I think the important thing is to understand that what we are doing now follows a whole and a number of strategic tracks that each can be questioned but which together form a larger whole.
i-de2172d592422bd6-924	Mr President, I would like to I would like to put a question to the Government in view of the displacement effects that are now being seen as a result of the immigration of refugees. I mentioned in my speech that Dalarna sees that emergency times are no longer enough. In Norrbotten it is stated that patient safety is threatened, that you do not have time for the planned care and that the queues are growing. The last thing I mentioned was that thousands of women in Blekinge will not be called for cell sampling, which is extremely serious. I know you don't usually get answers when you ask questions to the ministers, but I'll give it a try. The question I want answers to is: Is this something we should get used to in Sweden, or can the Government guarantee that Swedish citizens will not be pushed away in health care and dental care because of the refugee immigration that we have today to Sweden? This is a very important question which concerns all of us and to which many people want answers.
i-de2172d592422bd6-928	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Per Ramhorn for the questions. I will start by saying that we have a completely exceptional situation in Sweden right now. We share it with some other countries in Europe. It is about the hundreds of thousands of people fleeing war and oppression, persecution and violence. They are fleeing to seek a better future for themselves and their children, and many of them are seeking, not least, to our country. What has happened this autumn, for various reasons that we do not have time to go into this debate, is that a lot of people have gone to Sweden for a limited time. I am impressed by the work that many of the welfare workers in our country have done and by our fantastic social systems that in a short time, despite the effort, have proved robust and able to contribute to life and health for many more than they have first been dimensioned for. I realise, however, that it has created efforts. Sometimes the organization hasn't really made it. You haven't had time to hire as many nurses as you need, or doctors or whatever. These are the backlogs we are seeing and addressing today as major challenges for health care. I don't think we need to get used to that situation. I think our systems will make it. This is shown not least by the experience of county councils that have had a large reception of refugees in their municipalities for a long time. They are robust, and they do not experience displacement effects or strained systems. They have done this because they have had time to change.
i-de2172d592422bd6-932	Mr President, I would like to Many county councils do not share the views of the Government. They see displacement effects. I have listed some here, including Blekinge and what is happening there. What I would like answers to, which I did not get, is the question of how it will be. Will there be displacement effects in the future for us Swedish citizens due to large refugee migration? I also want to know what the Government has to say to the women in Blekinge who are now without cell sampling. That's extremely serious.
i-de2172d592422bd6-933	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my first reply, I do not think we need to get used to so-called displacement effects, and I do not believe that our systems will be unable to cope with their tasks in the future because we have an increased number of asylum seekers. I think our systems are going to keep up, but it's about time. What we are now seeing is that for a short time we have had an increase in the number of asylum seekers and that, in turn, it has made the situation more strained. However, with a little time and with the right efforts, especially from the county councils but also at the national level, I think we will be able to solve the challenges we see. With regard to the so-called displacement effects, I want to make it clear that I think it is a problematic concept. It is based on the notion that it would be about people who are not entitled to basic health care coming and taking it from some others. Our laws are clear, and I have not seen effects in the form that anyone who does not deserve care would have received them at the expense of anyone else. Our Health Act is not based on the citizen's perspective. It is based on needs and is much more inclusive than just Swedish citizens. That is also what I think we should start from when we discuss. I do not want a system in which health professionals deny people basic health care that can save lives or health because they do not have a Swedish citizenship. It is not humane, and it is not worthy of a society like Sweden.
i-de2172d592422bd6-938	Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying to hear in the debate that we agree on a great deal with regard to Swedish health care. Since that is the responsibility of the Government in this area of expenditure, I intended to concentrate on that in relation to my question. It is important that we give the right priority to resources in health care. I have dealt with this in previous lines, and there are shortcomings in the government's proposal. Now, however, I thought I would focus on what is most fundamental – the main features that create the most basic conditions for us to be able to have good care not only today but above all in the future. Because it is the conditions we give health care to continue to develop that determine which care we will be able to receive tomorrow. Much was done by the previous government, and in several contexts I have heard the Minister commend Göran Hägglund as responsible for those efforts, both in the field of cancer and in other areas. That is good, and it is good that the government is carrying out much of the work we started. One of the important investigations we set up was to look at how we can ensure that the best care comes to as many people as possible and how we can ensure that quality is so good that lives are saved. The investigation that came up in a previous replica here showed that as much as 500 lives can be saved every year by concentrating care. We have seen that the current organisation we have, with 21 self-governing county councils that prioritise different and actually also make different assessments of what people need for care and treatment, is not the most effective. The question to the Government is therefore whether it is prepared to start work on the health reform of the century, so that we can save lives and reduce suffering.
i-de2172d592422bd6-942	Mr President, I would like to I agree with much of what Emma Henriksson describes when it comes to the challenges we face. However, on the direct question of whether the government is prepared to launch the health care reform of the century, the answer is no. Given the fundamental attitude of the Christian Democrats towards the basic structures of health care, I understand that this is a matter of nationalisation of health care. We have chosen a path in this area: we do not believe that the nationalisation of all health care in Sweden is either a viable or desirable path. On the other hand, we are prepared to look at whether the state in some places can take greater responsibility for health care and in what ways, with larger regions, we can actually increase the conditions for good health care throughout the country. I can imagine that Emma Henriksson would find an attraction in the fact that we here in Parliament are discussing which health centres and emergency hospitals should remain or be closed down, but I think we are ill-suited to conduct such debates. How healthcare should be organised, what kind of hospital should exist and which health centres should be located is a matter for the regional level, because there is the popular anchoring and also the opportunity to have a dialogue with citizens about the different interests of health care and responsible decision-makers must constantly contend with. I think it is a much better order to allow a fundamentally decentralised system to get more of government influences than to have a whole national system that will be subjected to lobbying by municipalities and county councils.
i-de2172d592422bd6-946	Mr President, I would like to No, think about it, Prime Minister. That's where you're all wrong. It is not that I find the slightest appeal to us in this House to discuss which health centres should be closed down. It is, in our view, nothing that politicians should interfere in. Instead, we want a system in which patients can choose with their feet. Those responsible for care must then ensure that care is not carried out that is not so good that patients choose to go there. It would affect quite a few health centres, both some run by private interests and – not least – quite a few run by politicians. For politicians are not always the best to decide which is the best way to do care. We should have joint funding for health care, but we should not have detailed management of politicians who sit and say which health centres should be open or not. Instead, it should be the quality of care that governs it. That brings me to my second question to the Government. When you see that it is quality that governs that is where you have focus and not focus on profits, because the profits themselves are much more limited than it sounds in the general debate. But above all, it says nothing about the quality of the care that is being carried out. Now with a focus on profits, focus is directed away from quality. With greater government control, but above all with more influence for patients and for the staff in care, we would get better quality of care. My next question to the Government is: Is the government prepared to take advantage of the development power of all the actors involved in healthcare and to give more power to patients and take a little more power from politicians?
i-de2172d592422bd6-951	Mr President, I would like to That was a much more honest answer by Emma Henriksson than I expected. When we talk about the organisation of care, there is usually talk on the bourgeois edge about efficiency gains, increased accessibility and the possibility for people to choose. But it is very rarely that I hear that politics should not take responsibility for the organisation of care at all. I find that very strange, because I believe in a system of private elements. I believe in a system of different performers and that the right rigged and organised generally leads to a better quality and increased opportunity for people to choose but also that you can try new ways and methods. However, I do not believe in completely handing over power to the market, and I did not believe that the Christian Democrats did either. When it comes to the question of whether the government sees the potential of different actors in health care to be involved in developing it, the answer is: Absolutely, it is there. The debate and the initiatives taken by the government in this area have not been about banning private alternatives. Rather, it has been about how, after 25 years of experimenting in the welfare sector, we can create uniform rules and take a holistic approach in order to get a regulatory framework that is sustainable over time and that steers towards higher quality, that patients' needs should come first, while guaranteeing freedom of choice. I think these are principles on which everyone should be able to stand.
i-de2172d592422bd6-956	Mr President, I would like to I have two questions. I thought the Minister spoke interestingly and thoughtably about regional formations in Sweden and how to relate to a state health care. A debate on the terms of the Left Party on raising taxes and allocating subsidies will be distorted. That is why I have highlighted the whole in a few contributions before. The center had a major investment in more jobs and on better terms for the companies. In the long term, it provides greater resources for prosperity, as demonstrated by the eight years of the Alliance in my opinion. Sweden is going well now, and we should all be happy about that. I see it as an outflow of eight years of successful alliance policy before the government's budgets had been adopted and passed. But we can take that into account in another debate. Ensuring freedom of choice and self-determination is important for different groups in society and in health and social care. One example is people with disabilities, whom I mentioned earlier in my speech. Persons in need of 20 hours of assistance per week or less have the municipality as a service provider, unlike those in need of over 20 hours of assistance who choose the service provider themselves. The Center Party believes that the starting point should be that all users should have the opportunity to control their assistance. I know that it is the Member of the Government who is responsible for the questions, but there are no watertight shots, so I ask: how does the government intend to extend freedom of choice to those who need assistance less than 20 hours? I can come back to the last question.
i-de2172d592422bd6-963	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Staffan Danielsson, for the question. As Mr Danielsson points out, it is my colleague, Åsa Regnér, who is responsible for this, and I may well refer the details to her. In general terms, however, I can say, as has also been said earlier in the debate, that this is an area that deserves a review, and not at all for the reasons that Emma Henriksson said, that these would be savings just to deal with the refugee situation. Maybe it wasn't Emma Henriksson who said that. In that case, I apologise, but it was at least someone from one of the bourgeois parties. Here we see that the costs have skyrocketed and are disproportionate to how many more have used this type of services. Of course it deserves a review. We need to find out why this has happened and whether it has become a simple means of offering an assistant instead of talking about rehabilitation or what further efforts the health service can make. I cannot answer the detailed question. On the other hand, I can give a general answer on the need and need for a review, not primarily to save money and to get cost control on a runaway development, but primarily because we have to put people in need of assistance at the centre and ask ourselves: Can we, as a society, help in more ways than simply offering an assistant?
i-de2172d592422bd6-966	Mr President, I would like to I listen with interest to Minister Wikström, and I believe that we agree on the importance of the LSS reform and that disabled people can have the resources and support to live as good a life as possible. Personally, I also think that the costs have risen and that it is worth reviewing them. I just want to say that I hope that the aspect I raised, the need for freedom of choice in order to get good services done and have good patient satisfaction, can also be included in the review. The second issue I was going to raise is a matter of principle that I discussed with Karin Rågsjö earlier, namely free medicines for children. I would like to hear a little bit about the Government's view of principle on this. We agree that we should have social basic security in Sweden and about resources for vulnerable people in different ways, through good care and through support systems for those who need it. But I am a little concerned about this particular issue of making services and goods free of charge, not least medicines. Maybe not Minister Wikström but others might want to go on and have free primary care and so on. I think it is worth paying a little for the services, so that the need does not overflow. And drugs in particular are medicines, so I have a slight concern that there may be some errors in the implementation of this reform. The question is what the Government's view is of having a certain fee for services so that you have to pay for them. Doesn't it have value anyway?
i-de2172d592422bd6-969	Mr President, I would like to I believe that the dividing line between the government's policy and that of Staffan Danielsson in this case is precisely that of Staffan Danielsson. For Staffan Danielsson and for the Center Party, it is a matter of principle not to allow free services and goods. For us, it's not a matter of principle. We also see what Staffan Danielsson says, that sometimes you may need to have a small fee for different systems and services not to be overused, and that is what we have in many areas of health care. But we are also prepared to examine the questions in each individual case. And that is exactly the case with free medicines for children. I really think that very few parents refrain from buying medicines for their children. But why may one have to give up other vital purchases for a month, such as food and clothing, because one's child has fallen ill? That is what the question is about. In the debate, I have also heard the misconception that free medicines for children lead to over-consumption of medicines. I do not think there is such a connection. Parents and children cannot just go and buy medicines, because in our country medicines are prescribed. If we have a problem with the fact that it is prescribed too much of certain types of medicines and that this is especially done after they have become free of charge, we have to bring it up with the Swedish medical profession. But poor children shouldn't have to suffer for it.
i-de2172d592422bd6-973	Mr President, I would like to On Saturday night, the world finally got a global climate agreement. It was a major and important step forward in the climate negotiations, although the agreement itself is insufficient to tackle the climate challenge seriously. I had the privilege of being present in Paris and was able to see that the negotiations were characterised by a constructive spirit and that the parties actually wanted to agree. I believe that this and the excellent French Presidency were two important reasons why the negotiations finally led to the conclusion of a historic agreement. Mr President, I would like to It is very welcome that the agreement is based on a long-term ambition to keep global warming well below two degrees and with a view to stepping up efforts so that the temperature increase can be maintained for one and a half degrees. The fact that one and a half degrees are mentioned in the agreement must be seen as a great success. However, the agreement lacks clear emission reduction targets, which is a major shortcoming. It must also be seen to some extent as a failure for the Swedish Government, which had this as one of its main priorities for the negotiations. Nevertheless, the agreement is a great success and contains several positive elements. All parties are now to submit so-called nationally determined contributions, which means that each party presents its commitments and ambitions. These shall be reviewed in cycles of five years. That is a good thing, although we Moderates would have liked to see binding emission reduction commitments. The voluntary commitments made so far are anything but sufficient to keep global warming even below two degrees. The most important thing in the coming years will therefore be to keep up the pressure to bridge the gap between long-term ambitions and actual commitments. Sweden and the EU have shown the way, but now the whole world must take responsibility. Mr President, I would like to Between 2006 and 2014, Sweden's emissions decreased by 19 per cent. In other words, the alliance delivered good results in climate policy. Among other things, we gave special priority to the transformation of the transport sector. Thanks to the ambitious and determined policy of the Alliance, some 600 000 environmentally friendly cars are currently rolling on Swedish roads. However, the transport sector still accounts for about one third of Swedish emissions. It is emissions that we Moderates want to reduce, including through good conditions for biofuels and investments in expanded charging infrastructure. By enabling for longer and heavier vehicles, emissions from heavy transport can decrease while strengthening the competitiveness of Swedish companies. This is an example of how we want to secure environmental and climate policy. In order for Sweden to reach the vision of a fossil-independent vehicle fleet set up by the Alliance by 2030, the conversion of the vehicle fleet needs to be accelerated. Unfortunately, the current government chooses to slow down the conversion by halving the super-environmental car premium to charging hybrids. We Moderates want to continue to stimulate climate-smart choices in the car hall and therefore invest 135 million more on the super environmental car premium in our budget for next year. That the government wants to make it more expensive to be a green motorist is serious. We are debating Category 20 General environment and nature conservation. Although it is tempting to get caught up in climate policy just a few days after the historic climate agreement, I would like, Mr President, to touch on some other important areas of environmental policy. The marine and aquatic environment remains a priority for us Moderates. A very successful and appreciated investment is LOVA, i.e. support for local water management measures. That is why we want to increase aid by EUR 25 million per year so that a total of 100 million are spent annually on local measures for a better marine environment. We also want to broaden the support so that it can be used to support measures aimed at reducing the problem of marine litter and micro litter. Two other priority areas for the Moderates are the work for biodiversity and a non-toxic everyday life. It is important that work now continues on the action plan for a non-toxic environment. We Moderates also want to set up a specific knowledge portal to gather up-to-date and easily accessible information on both the desired and unwanted effects and properties of chemicals. The biodiversity strategy developed by the Alliance during the last parliamentary term and adopted by Parliament as recently as last year provided a solid basis for further work. It is now up to the Red-Green Government to implement the strategy. For us Moderates, it is important to continue to develop work on nature considerations and biodiversity in close relationship and cooperation with all stakeholders. Cooperation with Sweden's forestry and farmers is particularly important. They have a key role to play in achieving a number of our 16 national environmental quality objectives. However, I am concerned about the mistrust that the current government seems to harbour for our forestry and farmers. I am also very concerned that the government is pursuing a anti-job policy that has given up the idea of green tax exchange and the principle of financing the reforms crown by crown. Now we are getting a huge increase in taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship, but also unfunded investments that risk making us expensive in the future. Such a policy is a serious threat to a long-term, ambitious environmental and climate policy. Only through a responsible economic policy with reforms for more jobs combined with declining emissions can Sweden take on the role of a front country and invest over time in measures and investments for a better environment. Mr President, I would like to To conclude, I would like to thank you for the floor and the members and the private office of the committee and, of course, Mr President, for a really good Christmas and a happy New Year. I wish, of course, all of you who follow this important debate on Swedish environmental and climate policy.
i-de2172d592422bd6-990	Mr President, I would like to I refrain from commenting on the Moderate version and criticism of Sweden's capacity in the international climate negotiations. However, I note that Swedish negotiators under the leadership of climate and environmental ministers have long earned and gained a leadership position in international negotiations. This year was no exception. Minister for Climate and Environment Åsa Romson has done an excellent job. Sweden and the EU have done very well in these negotiations. Now we have a global climate agreement in place, which is reasonable and a start to something new. I therefore refrain from hooking up – even if we could talk about Reinfeldt's collapse in Copenhagen in 2009 or the African Group's walkout when climate and environmental minister Andreas Carlgren pissed them off by saying that they were going ahead with the oil countries. But as I said, I will refrain from taking that ball. Instead, I want to talk about the only thing that the Moderates have prioritised in their environmental budget, because these are mostly axe cuts in most areas. But you say somewhere, Johan Hultberg, that you want to prioritise work on a non-toxic everyday life. I would like to hear how it goes with the fact that, at the same time, you want to make major cuts to the clean-up of contaminated land.
i-de2172d592422bd6-993	Mr President, I would like to Initially, I would like to extend warm thanks and congratulations to Åsa Romson and the Swedish Government for their work in Paris. I share the view that Sweden under this government, as under previous governments, has been a driving force. But I can state that if the government goes away with a priority to achieve long-term emission reduction targets in an agreement and then fails to achieve this, it must be regarded as a failure, although the agreement itself is of course a huge success for Åsa Romson, Fredrik Reinfeldt, Andreas Carlgren, Lena Ek and all of us who have worked hard to bring about what the climate needs, namely an ambitious long-term climate agreement. I think that both Matilda Ernkrans and I agree that long-term emission reduction targets would have been good. It's not in the agreement, and we'll probably see that as a failure. With regard to the issue of a non-toxic environment, I note that the Alliance developed the action plan that we are now working on and that it is an important part of the work to achieve the environmental quality objective of the Non-toxic environment. We want to push forward within the EU, which is by far the most important way of achieving better chemicals legislation that ensures that we protect everyone's safety and ensure that we have safe products. As I pointed out in my speech, we also want to set up a specific knowledge portal, precisely because chemicals policy is an area characterised by a lot of alarms and fears and sometimes misinformation and so on. I think it would have been important to be able to create a knowledge portal that can help both individual consumers and companies navigate the jungle as it is sometimes. I note that we are not making any major cuts in relation to the previous year's budget, but because we are not making the anti-job tax increases that the government is making, we have a somewhat smaller budgetary framework.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1000	Mr President, I would like to Since Johan Hultberg and the Moderates are quick to put words on failures that the rest of the world see as great successes and the beginning of something new – a starting shot, certainly not the goal line, but a starting shot at something new – I will continue to try to get Johan Hultberg and the Moderates to answer my question. As I said, you are presenting an environmental budget, Johan Hultberg, where you are not making a great deal of effort on the climate side. You say that work on a non-toxic everyday life is a priority. Johan Hultberg himself is from Småland. There we have several large areas where, for example, old glassworks leak poisons. You want to significantly reduce the potential for remediation of old industrial land, Johan Hultberg, even though we have repeatedly found that there are very high levels of hazardous substances in old industrial land, for example in Lessebo, Nybro and so on. Where do these subjects end up if not in our everyday lives, Johan Hultberg? You say that you want to prioritise work on a non-toxic everyday life. Where do these chemicals that lie and leak in industrial areas, for example at home in your Småland? What do you say to the inhabitants of Lessebo and Nybro, where high levels of arsenic have been found in drinking water? Is the drinking water not part of Lessebo people's everyday life, Johan Hultberg, and something you should be committed to if you say you should work on a non-toxic everyday life, instead of drastically cutting back on the appropriation for the clean-up of contaminated land?
i-de2172d592422bd6-1005	Mr President, I would like to Initially, I think it must be seen that it is a huge step forward that we have achieved a global climate agreement, that it is a breakthrough and that it provides a fantastic basis for further negotiations and for global climate action. But it must also be seen that the agreement is inadequate, that the content is not as good as we in the Swedish Parliament, wide across party and block borders, would wish and that some parts of the negotiations were in fact a failure, although it is overall a significant step forward and a fantastic foundation to build on. With regard to the non-toxic environment and the issue of clean-up, Mr President, it should be made clear that we have a huge need to clean up contaminated soil. When you listen to Matilda Ernkrans here in the debate, you can get the impression that, with the efforts made by the government, you will solve the enormous problems that exist. That is not true, Mr President. It's very far from the truth. You just take a little bit of the tip of the iceberg. What is needed in the long term is a policy that allows us to keep our efforts in place over time. Now this government is pursuing a policy that puts jobs and growth at risk. This weekend the Minister of Finance went out and said that the principle of financing reforms crown by crown is gone. Now it is apparently the economic policy of the Left Party that has won the approval of the Minister of Finance. Now we will borrow again, but that is not how we create the conditions for long-term financing of investments in, for example, the clean-up of contaminated land. It is long-term work, and we must have the opportunity to finance it in the longer term. I think that the starting point here too must be that the polluter pays. As far as possible, those who have polluted the soil themselves shall bear the cost. That bill should only be sent to taxpayers in the last resort.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1011	Mr President, I would like to There was much in Johan Hultberg's speech that I reacted to and would like to discuss. I'll have to try and pick out a few things. What I was thinking about was the history of the great success of the Alliance with so-called environmentally friendly cars during the last and last term of office. What happened was that the share of cars that went on renewables decreased on our roads and that we got a lot of diesel cars into our car park. Especially in cities, these diesel cars are a major cause of the very dangerous particles that affect our children in particular. With regard to chemicals and dangerous substances that affect our children, it is a priority for our government to reduce them. Among other things, they want to give more money to the Chemicals Inspectorate and to clean up areas, as Matilda Ernkrans talked about. These are important priorities for those of us who think it is important to remove toxins from everyday life. Looking at the movements of moderate Members of Parliament in the report, it is clear that Members see a major problem in the fact that the Chemicals Inspectorate does not approve new pesticides and plant protection products in agriculture, for example, quickly enough. There are even those who talk about creating a new authority and investing money so that this can be effective. My question to Johan Hultberg is: Do the Moderates mean that it is a more important problem that we cannot quickly get new toxins into our everyday lives than that we work to remove the dangerous toxins and chemicals that exist today?
i-de2172d592422bd6-1017	Mr President, I would like to Stina Bergström's final question exposes a huge ignorance of the issue of the Agency's long processing times and of applications for new pesticides. Many times it is about applications to use new and better pesticides, which are less toxic and have less negative effects on our environment. From an environmental perspective, it is extremely worrying that these are so long processing times. That's the first thing. The second is that Swedish agriculture relative to the outside world is both environmental and climate smart. When agriculture in Sweden does not have access to new products, this means that production is sometimes forced to stop. Does Stina Bergström believe that the production or consumption of e.g. rapeseed, which we use to make renewable fuels and to make cold-pressed rapeseed oil, will stop because Swedish agriculture does not have pesticides that allow you to continue growing rapeseed in Sweden? I don't think so. I believe that the environmental impact of the Agency having long processing times or not approving effective pesticides is actually negative. With regard to what Stina Bergström started talking about, an environmentally friendly vehicle fleet, it is not true that we got a smaller proportion of vehicles that could go on renewable fuels. On the other hand, it is true that we had an explosive increase in the number of low-emission cars, albeit on petrol or diesel. I note that the current government makes it more expensive to refuel renewables, makes it more expensive to buy a super-environmental car and makes it more expensive to have an environmental car as a company car. Is that really what we need to speed up the conversion of the fleet of vehicles?
i-de2172d592422bd6-1023	Mr President, I would like to We can discuss cars and benefits and what the Alliance did not manage to do during the last parliamentary term in terms of tax rates and tax exemptions on renewable fuels. But I won't do it. Instead, I thought I'd dwell on the toxins and a nontoxic everyday life. Johan Hultberg says that you save money for clean-up, and you save the money that the government wants to allocate extra to the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate. This money is used, among other things, for super environmental car premiums. I think that's a strange priority. As regards the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate, the Moderates state in their special opinion that the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate should set up an information portal, i.e. a knowledge portal. I think the Chemicals Inspectorate has a pretty good portal. They have a pretty good website with quite a lot of information. That's why I'm a little curious about what the Moderates think you should improve on the information page.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1026	Mr President, I would like to As I tried to say in my line with Mr Ernkrans, there is a lot of misinformation. There are sometimes alarm reports that make it difficult for consumers and businesses to know how to act. I am aware that the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate is already doing information work today and, of course, that they have a website. However, we Moderates believe that it would have been good to have a specific knowledge portal that could guide companies as to which chemicals are the least bad and how they can reduce their use of the chemicals that we should phase out in different ways. Hopefully, other instruments can be found to do so. For example, the Alliance government set up an investigation to look at a specific chemicals tax aimed at supplementing legislation to try to phase out hazardous chemicals. Unfortunately, I have to say, Mr President, that the investigation that was presented was a great disappointment. We would not achieve the objectives of the proposals proposed there. I'm sorry about that. I note that Mrs Bergström quickly avoided the issue of the fleet, even though she was the one who brought it up. I understand that it is difficult to have to defend as an environmental party that with a partly environmental-partisan government it will be more expensive to refuel renewables, that it will be more expensive to choose an environmental car as a company car and that it will also be 20 000 SEK more expensive to buy a charging hybrid. I think we need more charging hybrids, because they have the advantage of being able to use electric power in urban traffic and not emit any particles or climate-affected gases. I regret that the government chooses to cut that premium one year before the bonus – the Malus system is to be introduced. It would have been good if the premium could remain at the current level.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1031	Mr President, I would like to If you look at paragraphs 72 and 73 of the report, you see a rather good educational comparison between the emphasis on environmental and climate policy made with this budget, which we in the Left Party support, and the alternative proposals of the bourgeois opposition. We see that the Government, with the support of the Left Party, is making strong increases in the environmental and climate area, from SEK 5 billion to SEK 7.6 billion. The Moderates want to reduce the investment by a total of SEK 2 billion. These include reductions in new nature reserves, nature conservation, climate adaptation, the important local climate investment programmes and land remediation, which have just been discussed. The Moderates also want to reduce our expert authorities The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate and the Swedish Maritime and Water Authority. I listened to Johan Hultberg. We were both at the climate summit in Paris, and both in Paris and now from the pulpit he is calling for higher ambitions in the climate agreement that was made in Paris. Then I think that it is really quite easy to be in Paris and ask for higher ambitions. It's pretty far from here. But it is here, after all, that we make the decisions that will change Sweden. Therefore, I would like to know when the Moderates last proposed increased climate ambitions in Sweden and why they are cutting down with a total of SEK 2 billion in the field of environment and climate.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1035	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates' environmental budget does not mean a reduction in expenditure in relation to this year's budget. It's important to have said that. With regard to the climate agreement, it was above all the gap between ambition and action that I was referring to. I note that Sweden and the EU are doing a lot in the climate area and that during the time of the Alliance emissions fell by as much as 19% in Sweden. That is what it takes for us to be able to keep the global temperature increase clearly below two degrees and preferably below one and a half degrees. It is good that the countries of the world have agreed on those ambitions, but I note that the voluntary commitments made so far by the countries of the world are far from being able to deliver the emission reductions needed to achieve the targets. That's what I criticized. When it comes to Swedish politics, it is a bit tiring that environmental policy should only be about banking ambitions in each other's heads, or for that matter, grants. We need to look more closely at the results achieved. I am quite proud, Mr President, of the balance sheet that the Alliance could make after its eight years. As I said, emissions fell by 19 percent, wind power grew tenfold, we got 400 new nature reserves to an area corresponding to Öland and so on. That's what matters after all. It is about results, not only about the funds you have. I am critical of much of the content of the budget, not because of its intentions, but because I do not think the results will be very good. I do not believe that the proposals put forward are cost-effective. It is in the light of empirical and proven experience that I say so. We have tested climate investment programmes in Sweden. They proved to be quite ineffective. Now they are the main issue in the government's budget bill, which Jens Holm supports.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1040	Mr President, I would like to One of the major investments is local climate investments, which Johan Hultberg mentioned. That is what all local politicians are asking for. Moderate local politicians also want money to make local climate investments, energy efficiency and reduce their emissions. The experience of the latest climate investment programme, which the previous bourgeois government unfortunately scrapped, shows that we had to reduce emissions by 11 million tonnes. There were 750 actions, bringing together about 100 local climate investment programmes around Sweden. And as I said, they were demanded by our local politicians. Now they are requested by Swedish Municipalities and County Councils and by local Moderates. I did not get an answer to my question when the Moderates last proposed increased ambitions for Swedish climate policy. Is it, Johan Hultberg, that there is no concrete example to give? You are in Paris and want increased climate ambitions, but when you come home to Sweden you will reduce the investments with a total of SEK 2 billion. Johan Hultberg, will emissions reductions be greater when you cut the environmental and climate budget as much as you do?
i-de2172d592422bd6-1043	Mr President, I would like to Returning to the results, I note that during the time of the Alliance, emissions fell twice as fast as in the previous eight years. That is an actual result, and that is what the climate cares about. I also believe that the climate welcomed the fact that the EU's current high ambitions to reduce emissions by 80 – 95% were adopted during the Swedish Presidency of the European Union. It was when Fredrik Reinfeldt had the leadership in the EU that we got that goal in place. This objective is in many ways also the basis of Swedish climate policy, which guides the important emissions trading system. It is thus an example of when the Moderates made a difference to the climate. Another is that Sweden has set up the vision that we should be climate neutral and thus have zero net emissions by 2050. This was confirmed by the alliance government in our 2009 climate bill and is also an example of high ambitions that the Moderates have been involved in pushing forward here in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to With regard to this budget, Jens Holm says that the old climate investment programme was certainly effective. Jens Holm and I cannot possibly have read the same assessment reports on the climate investment programme. In its evaluation, the Economic Institute notes that approximately 40 per cent of the grants could have been allocated more cost-effectively. In its evaluation of Swedish environmental policy, the OECD points out that up to 70% of investments in previous climate investment programmes would have been made even without subsidies. Mr President, I would like to If up to 70% of the investments had been made even without aid, one might wonder whether this is well spent tax money. Jens Holm says that moderate councillors wish these subsidies. Which municipal councillor does not want the state to go in and cover the financing of a biogas plant or what it might be that one has planned to build anyway?
i-de2172d592422bd6-1048	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating Category 20, and I would like to begin by calling for the Swedish Democrats' reservation in this report to be approved. This is largely a consensus area. All parties want to invest in improving the environment, but we make different priorities because a budget is a whole. The resources, as we see it, are not endless. It is therefore important to point out that the Government's budget proposal is somewhat special. Even when it was presented, we knew that it would not go together, and today we know that it was very far from going together. We have a government that spends money it doesn't have on irresponsible politics. That is why we are now seeing growing deficits and increased government borrowing. It is particularly worrying that this is happening in a boom when, instead, we should save money that we can spend once there is a recession. This, of course, will also affect the environment. When it comes to environmental policy, we Swedish democrats want to invest where we can improve and make a difference seriously. Some environmental problems are global, and we must realise that we cannot change so much through efforts in our geographical area. It's in our immediate environment that we can make a difference. I am thinking of the approximately 80 000 contaminated areas in our country. There is an arduous effort to clean up these areas. It's going slow, and it's going to take time. At the current rate, it is estimated to take several decades and cost tens of billions of dollars. We want to speed up and increase funding. We also want to review the legislation in this area. It is a tangled bureaucracy in which entrepreneurs see risks in investing, and there will be legal disputes about who will pay. This leads to a delay in clean-up and poor use of resources, as instead one might choose to build on land where there have not previously been industrial properties. Mr President, I would like to Another priority area for the Swedish Democrats is our waters in general and the Baltic Sea in particular. The state of the Baltic Sea remains serious. Eutrophication is probably the biggest problem. More resources are needed for mapping and research. In particular, we find it interesting whether it is possible to explore the possibility of sea-based action more intensively, because although we should continue to have a restrictive approach to land emissions, this is a work where we are already at the forefront. If we are to maintain an agriculture, we must also accept that there will be some nutrient leakage. Effective action at sea can be an important component for moving forward in this very important work. The presence of plastics in the marine environment is an extremely important problem. Between 1.5 and 4.5 percent of all manufactured plastic ends up in the sea. We advocate an overall strategy to reduce these problems in the long term. Increased resources should be devoted to identifying flows of plastics, both microplastic and macroplastic. Measures must be taken to reduce the overall use of plastic products. Plastics with a particularly high environmental impact should be replaced by other materials, preferably environmentally friendly plastics. Mr President, I would like to We have just seen the outcome of the climate summit in Paris, COP 21, and I shall not say that it is surprising in any way. The outcome was about what we described in our climate policy exercise to the Riksdag earlier this autumn. Nor is it surprising that the government and most of the other parties rejoice over the end result. However, this should be remarkable in view of the fact that this agreement in principle lacks a single concrete syllable and does not commit any country in any way to reducing its emissions. Of all the talk about a legally binding global agreement, it was just talk. A letter about a temperature target has been squeezed in. It looks good in the media and is good PR, but it doesn't mean anything, not only because nobody commits to anything, but also because no one really knows exactly how an increased amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere affects the temperature and how much carbon dioxide has to increase for a given temperature increase. The fact that this time all major emitters appear to be brought along is not surprising, as the agreement is much less concrete than what the Kyoto Protocol was. One of the more renowned climate scientists described this quite well in a newspaper article a few days ago. He spoke this way: It is fraud. It's a hoax. It's just nonsense of them to say that we have a two-degree target and then try to do a little better every five years. Those are useless words. There is nothing concrete. As long as fossil fuels are cheaper, they will continue to be used. That is how it is, and it is against the background of what Sweden should also reconsider its climate policy. The policy we are pursuing today with the world's highest carbon taxes and the criminal taxation of nuclear and hydro power leads to the flight of jobs, reduced growth and the flight of carbon dioxide to other countries. We are already the best in the class when it comes to CO2 emissions, and if we count net emissions, the disappearances are small today. I'm sure they'll be even smaller in the future. The government wants to spend hundreds of millions on ineffective measures in the municipalities, and it is called climate investment. This is fraudulent behaviour, for this money will in no way make a difference no matter how sensitive the climate would be to an increased amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. That is one way of saying that you are doing something without doing anything but wasting tax money. Mr President, I would like to Do it again, do it right. It is a good expression in this context. One should stop taxing Swedish industry and Swedish jobs, stop bluffing for the Swedish people about the climate agreement and invest money where they can make a difference globally. I am talking about research and development. It is only when we have other environmentally friendly and cheap forms of energy that we can reduce emissions at a global level. Here, Sweden can also have a role to play internationally. It is against the background of what we Swedish democrats want to increase funding for research by 10% in our budget motion.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1062	Mr President, I would like to Martin Kinnunen and the Swedish Democrats give a speech here with quite a few harsh words in their review of others. Inefficient measures, fraudulent behaviour, irresponsible, wasting and bluffing were some of the expressions that I had time to note. The Swedish democrats follow the same pattern as the other bourgeois parties and reduce money for the environmental budget compared to what the government is investing. You are cutting the environmental budget by about 1.7 billion compared to the government. But it is actually the lowest reduction in all opposition parties. Yet, this year too, you voted for the financial framework of the Moderates when your own fell here in Parliament. I take it as irresponsible, somewhat chaotic and that it is more important to create that chaos than what logic is for the Swedish Democrats. But I would like to give Martin Kinnunen and the Swedish Democrats an opportunity to explain how this is connected.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1065	Mr President, I would like to I thank the honourable Member for that opportunity. As I described in my speech, the budget is a whole. Today we have a government that presents an unfunded budget to the Swedish Parliament. The increased costs were known before the budget was presented. Afterwards we have seen a farcelike situation. It presents an extra autumn change budget and borrows more money. The expenditure ceiling may also be broken in the future. In that situation, we must choose the least bad option. Even the moderate budget has major shortcomings, but it is a more responsible option. It does not mean the tax shock that the government's budget does. We are also seeing reductions in the area of migration, which we have promised our constituents to stick to. Against this background, our only option, given the promises we have made to our voters, was to vote for the least bad option. It also created an opportunity for the bourgeoisie to make a difference seriously. They didn't want to do that. That is why we will have an unfunded budget from the red-greens next year. That is regrettable. But that's how it is.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1069	Mr President, I would like to Is that the answer, when it comes to environmental policy, another promise from the Swedish Democrats that you are prepared to break in order to vote for an alternative that you think is better for managing migration, Martin Kinnunen? You have broken other promises to the Swedish people in the past, for example when it comes to increased unemployment, which you have voted away. Is this the logic that applies to the Swedish Democrats? Is that how I'm supposed to understand your answer? You have obviously presented an environmental budget which, although much worse than the government's, is the least bad of the opposition's draft budget. Yet you choose to actively support a budget represented by the Moderates. You are selling out the promises in the field of environmental policy, just as you did with the unemployment fund. And the only reason I thought I heard in the logic of the Swedish Democrats was that, according to the Swedish Democrats, that budget had a better migration policy.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1071	Mr President, I would like to I would like to take this opportunity to make it clear that the Swedish Democrats' environmental budget is much better than the government's. We have increased investments in clean-up, we have increased investments in research and we have a major investment in the marine environment, the Baltic Sea. We want to spend 1 billion over the budgetary period in this very important area. Matilda Ernkrans probably missed what I pushed hardest on when I explained why we voted as we did. This is a responsible economic policy. We have a government that is presenting an unfunded budget, whose expenditure is not covered. You have to borrow a lot of money. The Minister of Finance has said that we will continue to see unfunded budgets, with large government borrowings, in the future. It's not a responsible policy. It is not a long-term policy. We just shoot the costs ahead of us. It does not guarantee good environmental policy in the future either. We will see restrictions on the environment if we are to have a government that continues to pursue an irresponsible economic policy, which puts forward initiatives that cannot be financed. We spend these costs on future generations. It does not guarantee an effective and responsible policy.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1074	Mr President, I would like to I don't really get it together when Martin Kinnunen speaks. I try to understand the Swedish Democrats' environment, conservation and climate policy. Martin Kinnunen spoke about the importance of protecting our nature and our seas. At the same time, the Swedish Democrats are the party that pulls down most in the area of environmental protection, which also includes the protection of seas and watercourses. How is it that you are cutting down by more than SEK 1 billion on Category 1:3 and 1:16 which is about nature conservation? I can't get it together either when Martin Kinnunen saws the climate agreement in Paris. I can agree that there are many flaws. Nevertheless, a global climate agreement is important. Some of Martin Kinnunen's arguments are that there are no binding requirements and that there are no targets in terms of how much to reduce emissions. Then it would be quite interesting to know what the policy of the Swedish Democrats really is. By how much do you want to reduce emissions? When I have had debates with the Swedish Democrats in the past, they have sometimes pretended that climate change does not exist at all. Is there a man-made climate change? And should we do something about it? Should we reduce emissions? When I look at the draft budget of the Swedish Democrats, I get the feeling that reducing emissions and protecting our nature is quite unimportant. The most important thing is to reduce taxes. Otherwise, the Swedish Democrats would not have come forward with a proposal in which to reduce with as much as SEK 1.7 billion in the important area. I can't get it together. Are you getting it together, Martin Kinnunen?
i-de2172d592422bd6-1081	Mr President, I would like to We'll get it together. Jens Holm asked me if there is a human impact on the climate. I'm sure it does. But I don't know how big it is and how sensitive the climate is to an increased carbon dioxide content in the atmosphere. I don't know. I don't think anyone really knows that. We'll see about that. What is important to us in terms of climate policy is that we look at it as a global issue. If we are to have an ambitious policy in Sweden – we may have – it must be based on its ambition globally. Otherwise, we'll have a CO2 escape to other countries. We get jobs moving from Europe to China. The outcome of COP 21 is, of course, a go-ahead, thumb up, for a number of countries to increase their emissions. At the same time, we are pursuing a tough climate policy in Sweden with high costs on jobs, growth and so on. But to other countries we say that it is perfectly all right; just keep increasing emissions for at least another 15 years. It was about the promises that came from a wide range of countries, that they intend to continue to increase emissions for several years to come. Of course, it is worrying that we have now received an agreement that says that these countries will increase emissions while continuing to pursue a restrictive policy, which will, of course, impair our competitiveness. It's troubling. That was at the heart of my criticism of the agreement. I will return to the questions about the forest and Jens Holm's other issues.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1087	Mr President, I would like to It is good that the Swedish Democrats acknowledge that there is a man-made climate change and that we need to do something about it. But it sounds like someone else is going to do that work. Sweden has little responsibility for that. You can also see this when you study the Swedish Democrats' draft budget. They make draconian reductions in this important area — with $1,7 billion (U.S.). One of the more apart proposals in this report, Mr President, is the Swedish Democrats' proposal that Sweden should not scrap the surplus of allowances. Sweden has a large surplus of just over 6 million tonnes. All the other parties agree that if the allowances were to be transferred to another country, then there would be 6 million tonnes of emissions elsewhere. We do not want the other parties to do that. But the Swedish democrats obviously want that. How does that rhyme, Martin Kinnunen, with what you said earlier about the need to reduce emissions and about the existence of a man-made climate change? In any case, can we not agree that we should not give our surplus of allowances to any other country so that they can use a s elsewhere in the world? Another thing that I do not understand in the Swedish Democrats' proposal is that they want to halve the allocation for climate adaptation. Climate adaptation means that we take measures and investments to protect ourselves from climate change – this so that we can build smarter, produce food in a way that does not destroy food and so on. I see you're looking at the report, Martin Kinnunen. It's about grants 1:10 that you want to halve. Why are you doing that?
i-de2172d592422bd6-1093	Mr President, I would like to Our starting point is that the climate issue is global. It doesn't matter very much what Sweden does. That's the harsh truth. We can completely eliminate our emissions, it will certainly have no impact on the climate. We should agree on that. I do not think anyone claims that the climate is so sensitive to an increased amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. It is against this background that we reject several of the government's and the Left Party's various climate initiatives. The reductions that we make in nature conservation are basically about the forest. I think that is an urgent matter. As we can see, there is more forest than ever in our country. 31 per cent of Swedish forests are protected. In this situation, we do not think it is a reasonable priority to spend a small amount of astounding 1.3 billion on expanding these areas. In that case, the indirect costs incurred when the land is no longer used have not been taken into account. That it creates jobs, growth and increases our prosperity if we can increase our efforts in this area of the environment does not make sense and is not responsible. We already protect forest areas that are larger than Skåne, Blekinge, Småland, Halland and Västergötland. In this situation, we do not think it is right to devote even more resources to nature reserves. On the other hand, we do not want to reduce this much on the management of these areas because we see that it is lagging behind. That is why we give priority to management, given the redeployments that we make in the budget.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1097	Mr President, I would like to I can see that there is a special area that is like a red curtain in front of the Swedish Democrats, and that is the transition to a fossil-independent vehicle fleet. The Swedish Democrats slaughter all the efforts that can be derived to switch from fossil fuels to renewable fuels. Martin Kinnunen said in his speech that it is important to invest in Swedish industry. There is an area and an industry in Sweden that is growing and successful, which Martin Kinnunen and the Swedish Democrats absolutely do not want to invest in, and it is the production of renewable fuels that is going on in Sweden. If there is something that we have plenty of in Sweden, it is field and forest. There are growing raw materials that provide a fantastic basis for producing fuel. The Swedish Parliament has decided that Sweden will be independent of fossil fuels by 2030. This creates great opportunities for farmers and foresters. With the right policy and long-term rules of play, we will in future run on RME from Swedish rapeseed, HVO from Swedish pine, electricity from Swedish wind turbines and biogas from both Swedish crops and Swedish waste. This would reduce Swedish agriculture's vulnerability when it comes to access to diesel and fluctuations in the world's oil price. But this is something that the Swedish Democrats absolutely cannot imagine. While we want to see long-term rules and opportunities for you to continue to exempt renewable carbon from the CO2 tax, you want to clear the bones of Swedish biofuel production. Swedish ethanol, which is the most climate-smart in the world, should not receive continued tax exemption. So I wonder: Why are the Swedish Democrats not interested in contributing to Swedish farmers' reduced vulnerability and a new business opportunity for Swedish farmers?
i-de2172d592422bd6-1102	Mr President, I would like to I think it's great if there's any new fuel. I have nothing against biofuels as such. It is great if there can be more investment, that you continue to invest money in research and development of these fuels. But somewhere there are also some points of principle that need to be noted. At the risk of sounding like a libertarian, as a bourgeois politician should sound like, I think clouting politicians should stay away from market control. A technology-neutral approach should be adopted and not go in to steer technological development and not subsidise certain technologies while ostriching in others. We have a very destructive development in the energy sector. We subsidise certain types of energy by more than 100% while at the same time taxing water and nuclear energy as a result of the influence of the Center Party. That is very regrettable. We have absolutely nothing against biofuels, but we cannot buy that fuels should be subsidised when it is very uncertain today whether they will ever bear fruit. There are currently companies that are closing down because it is not possible to see that they will be able to function without even more substantial subsidies. If we are to start subsidising these fuels, then we will erode the tax base. It's going to cost a lot of money. I do not think this is an effective way of using our tax money.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1105	Mr President, I would like to It is a pity that the Swedish Democrats have this version. One of the reasons why the profitability of biofuel production is now very difficult is that there are no long-term rules. Discussions are currently under way with the European Commission on exemptions from CO2 taxation for the green carbon atom, that is, what is in renewable fuels. The EU believes that all CO2 should be taxed, while we believe that the Swedish model, with the exception of the green carbon atom, should apply throughout the EU. These are the things that mean that we do not have long-term rules of play. I absolutely agree that in many areas technology neutrality must be found and that it should be climate-based. That is why we from the Center Party have proposed working on a quota obligation. This could be one way of gradually increasing the amount of biofuels based on climate efficiency. In the long term, this could create the conditions for reducing the fossil share. But this is not something that the Swedish Democrats seem to be so keen on. I am afraid that with the policy of the Swedish Democrats, the way forward is to allow oil from Russia – or perhaps even from Daish – to supply Sweden's transport sector instead of allowing Swedish rural areas to become suppliers of future fuels. I think it is a great pity that you have this attitude. Ethanol from Norrköping is the world's most climate-smart fuel, and it is part of a cycle that returns to become feed. I think it is a great pity that you from the Swedish Democrats do not see the potential of biofuels and that you think it is better that our fuel comes from Putin instead of Piteå.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1110	Mr President, I would like to I think it is positive that Kristina Yngwe is highlighting the issue of dependence on fossil fuels from Russia, Arab states and so on. This is an urgent issue, especially because the Center Party has pushed forward criminal taxation of Swedish nuclear power and hydroelectric power, which leads to the closure of nuclear power plants. There are huge profitability problems in the hydroelectric sector as well. More producers are thinking about letting the works stand still because they don't make any money. What this will lead to is precisely the dependence on fossil fuels. If we cannot regulate with hydropower and nuclear power, we are facing enormous problems. We will definitely have to use fossil fuels in the future if this policy goes forward. The ethanole has been a total splendor that has cost taxpayers a great deal of money. The motorists don't like this fuel. Many service workshops advise motorists not to refuel with it, for it has destroyed a lot of engines, which have caused large costs to private households. We are talking about Swedish ethanol, but a lot of ethanol is imported from other countries. It is also agreed by both the UN and a wide range of research institutes that it is not reasonable to allow land where food should be grown for the cultivation of fuels. It is not an effective way of exploiting land. The ethanol initiative we have advocated should be removed immediately, and we hold on to that. It's an inefficient bet.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1113	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a global environmental standard. Under the alliance government, economic growth increased while our climate emissions decreased. Sweden has thus proven that growth can take place in parallel with less environmental impact and that the environment and economic growth are not each other's opposite poles but each other's prerequisites. Much has been done, but it will need to be done more in the future. The Center Party wants Sweden to continue to have high ambitions for the environment and climate. But a real environmental shift requires policies that encourage innovation and green entrepreneurship and support and facilitate economic growth and change. The Center Party therefore wants to see a green tax shift, where the polluter pays for his environmental damage and resources are used to reduce taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. As a step towards a non-toxic everyday life, the Center Party proposes to introduce a chemical tax to reduce the presence of flame retardants in our electronics products and phthalates in floors and other construction products. At the same time, we must make other efforts to reduce the presence of dangerous substances in our immediate environment. We want to create a chemical phase to strengthen consumers' ability to make active choices. We want it to be possible to ban dangerous substances in groups, and we want to create conditions for the development of green chemistry in Sweden. Another important environmental area is our waste. In recent years, the import of garbage has doubled in Sweden, and the expansion of combustion plants has increased rapidly. It has helped to strengthen energy supply and reduce landfills, but at the same time for the Center Party it is self-evident to stop the cycle and use the resources we have efficiently. Efficient cycles and sustainable recycling of resources are an important part of a green transition. In order to steer towards increased recycling and resource efficiency, the Center Party proposes a tax on waste incineration. Nondegradable plastic bags are also part of our junk, and a large amount of them end up in our seas and lakes every year. In order to reduce the use of thin plastic bags, the Center Party wants to introduce an environmental tax on fossil plastic bags. Similar charges exist in Denmark and Ireland, for example, and have effectively contributed to the phasing out of non-degradable plastic bags. In total, the Center Party raises the tax on environmentally hazardous substances by 21 billion over four years. Instead, this money is used to create jobs and growth, including by making it cheaper to recruit and to keep hiring young people less expensive. Unfortunately, however, the government has completely abandoned the idea of green tax exchange. Instead, tax increases on labour have been many times greater. In addition, the tax has been increased on renewable energy. It is, in my view, the opposite of green tax exchange. Mr President, I would like to Saturday, December 12, was a historic day. After many years of long negotiations, the world finally got a climate agreement in place. It is an agreement that lays a very good foundation to stand on and work on from, while leaving some other things to be desired. This is where the real work begins. It is now time for business, citizens and, not least, politicians at local, regional and national level to roll up their sleeves and make a difference to the climate. This also applies to Sweden. While the Paris climate summit entered its final stage, the think tank Germanwatch presented a ranking of climate work in various countries of the world. Sweden has slipped down a position since last year. The report also criticises the fact that the current government is throwing away the good results achieved in previous years. These are harsh words, but it is hopefully an incentive for the government not only to talk about climate but to start delivering climate results. The Paris Agreement will only be a paper product as long as it is not filled with concrete action. A key to achieving reduced climate emissions is the transition to a fossil-independent vehicle fleet. Today, transport accounts for about one third of our emissions. This is therefore a priority area. In recent years, instruments such as tax exemptions for biofuels, differentiated vehicle tax and the environmental car and super-environmental car premium have contributed to a clear climate shift. This shift must be accelerated in order to achieve the vision of a fossil-independent vehicle fleet. We want to chase the emissions and not the cars. We want a bonus – the Malus system to be introduced as soon as possible, so that the best environmental cars benefit and vehicles with the worst environmental performance pay. Sweden has a world-leading truck production, and it is therefore natural that Sweden also has the world's best environmental performance at our truck fleet. In order to accelerate technology development and create a strong Swedish market for environmental trucks, the Center Party proposes an environmental truck premium. We also want to earmark money for the expansion of charging poles. I myself drove by electric car down to the climate summit in Paris and for the first time in my life really experienced the meaning of the word. We must also ensure that the Swedish model, where the renewable green carbon atom is not taxed, does not become an exception in the EU without the norm. Mr President, I would like to For us in the Center Party, the way forward is clear: a policy in which work on the environment and climate goes hand in hand with growth, a policy of green tax exchange and a policy that creates long-term rules of play for a sustainable transport sector. Then Sweden can continue to wear the global environmental leadership shirt.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1127	Mr President, I would like to Both Kristina Yngwe and I were part of the Swedish delegation at the climate summit in Paris. It was made clear that the ambition of all countries on the climate issue must be increased. Yet the opposition parties are holding to drastically reduce environmental and climate ambitions for Sweden. The four bourgeois parties have signed a motion which states that, and should be, Sweden is and should be a green pioneer country. But, as I said, the four bourgeois parties are proposing to varying degrees severe cuts in the environmental budget. The Centers are cutting by nearly 2 billion compared to the government's proposal. It is 25% of the environmental budget that is being cut. My question to Kristina Yngwe and the Center Party is: How can you and you mean that Sweden becomes a pioneer country when you so greatly reduce the money for protecting nature, remove support for local climate action, drain our environmental authorities and halve the support for research and work on biodiversity at Artdatabanken? This really does not go together with what world leaders now put down and agreed at the summit this weekend or with the recently published Center's sharp proposals for new climate policy objectives. How does this relate to the Center Party, Kristina Yngwe? How can you mean that this would be a green front country if you remove 25% of the environmental budget?
i-de2172d592422bd6-1129	Mr President, I would like to A great misunderstanding that exists among some parties is that the result for the environment is better the more money you invest in something. The work of the Alliance government over the past eight years has shown quite concretely that it is possible to work with green tax exchanges and make investments in climate and environment, jobs and entrepreneurship. If we are to be able to make progress in the work, we must have investments in green entrepreneurs who can work, farmers who can contribute the raw materials needed and forest entrepreneurs who can contribute the raw materials needed. It is about being able to combine efforts on ambitious targets for emissions and the conversion to fossil-independent vehicle fleet with investments in green entrepreneurship. Over the past eight years, it has proved to have been a pretty good model to work from outside. It is good to bear in mind where the money the government is investing comes from. There's money coming from different entrepreneurs and jobs. Looking at how things have looked in recent years, however, tax revenues for public activities have increased. We've got more money to move with. It is because it has created better conditions for entrepreneurs. We have got more people who have been able to get into work. It has created more resources for, for example, investments in different environmental areas. It is somewhat wrong to conclude that taxes must be increased in order to be able to invest in the environment.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1132	Mr President, I would like to I have listened to the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and now to the Centre Party's Kristina Yngwe. I can only say that, in any case, it does not seem that what the world's countries agreed on this weekend, that the ambitions of all the countries of the world on the climate issue must be increased, is reflected in what they today have the chance to highlight about the climate change. Kristina Yngwe himself highlighted it in her own speech. She referred to a report that showed that Sweden has slipped into the climate ranking since last year. For eight years it was bourgeois politics and bourgeois budgets that governed the climate change transition in Sweden. Last year, a bourgeois budget was won with the support of the Swedish Democrats. It's the one that's been around. For the past nine years it is a bourgeois policy, with the adjustments that the government could make in the right direction in the spring change budget, which existed in this country under the leadership of c enterpartist environmental and climate ministers. Kristina Yngwe herself referred to the fact that Sweden has now slipped into international ranking in the climate work. We're some people who've been pretty worried about it for a long time. It is too well that this time the current government's budget will go through where we make historic investments in the environment and climate budget. We reject the 25% reduction in the environmental budget that the Center Party thinks we should continue with as a part of the road.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1136	Mr President, I would like to It is very strange if the alliance government has been so incredibly bad that it has ended up in second place in Germanwatch's ranking. It was from that place that we slipped down. So incredibly bad environmental and climate policy, the alliance government obviously could not have had, because we have been highlighted as an example in terms of global work for the environment and climate. As a comment in Germanwatch's annual ranking, it is noted that there are many experts who are very worried about how the government is acting right now. It is feared that the government will destroy the good work that the previous government has done. I can get it out. Matilda Ernkrans is happy to read how you express yourself. If it were just budget work, we would have been able to shut down our work in Parliament after it has been completed. But there are quite a few other things to work with. Unfortunately, we do not see that the government has been very active in coming up with various proposals and proposals to strengthen how we could work. There is a great deal that the government could do to work on this. Obviously, there is concern. There are concerns from the business community and from a number of different quarters. It is not only Germanwatch and v in the opposition who are concerned that nothing is happening in the climate and the environment.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1140	Mr President, I would like to I too can begin in Paris with the climate agreement that finally came into place on Saturday. Of course, it is possible to look for and find shortcomings in the agreement quite easily. However, I think that we can all agree that the central and crucial thing was what is stated in the initial objective, that the temperature increase should be limited to well below two degrees and that we should aim for one and a half degrees. From a climate point of view, there is a huge difference between one and a half degrees and two degrees. I find it hard to believe that someone who was at the meeting, or who saw this elsewhere, could be left untouched by representatives of the small low island nations. They said: You can discuss two degrees or one and a half degrees, but our whole existence depends on us talking about one and a half degrees. How important it is, I don't know. But I personally felt that there was something that could not be ignored. The historic climate agreement, as we may call it, makes clear demands that we continue to work, as has been mentioned here earlier in the debate. It should be seen as a starting point. In general, we can also agree that ambitious increases are needed at all levels. When we talk about all levels, it is local, national, within the EU and globally that we need to discuss the issue. The built-in follow-up system included in the agreement is very crucial for the ambition discussion that will be highlighted later on. These are global challenges. But it is very dependent on how individual countries act. Mr President, I would like to For us liberals, it goes without saying that growth, development and a market economy are key elements of climate change. Sweden will continue to be a pioneer country where prosperity and growth go hand in hand with climate work. I would also like to point out from our side that the consumer perspective is very important. It is very important that we produce effective economic instruments. Liberals want to put a clear price on the environment. We are also pushing and highlighting in our budget the idea of developing green tax exchange. It is very much based on the polluter pays principle. Mr President, I would like to It is about emissions being taxed, and environmentally unfriendly vehicles and chemicals as well. It can be said that taxes on labour are exchanged for taxes on environmental pollution. One example that we have already included in this year's budget and are proposing is regionalised travel deductions that distinguish between rural and metropolitan areas where public transport is well developed. Other examples include increased vehicle tax on cars with high negative climate impact and taxes on electronics containing environmentally hazardous chemicals. Mr President, I would like to Looking at the budget we are now discussing, we can see that the government with the Social Democrats and the Green Party is actually going the other way and raising taxes by around 32 billion. The vast majority of them end up in jobs and entrepreneurship. As Kristina Yngwe mentioned here before, it is very difficult to see any green tax change in the proposal. Mr President, I would like to Now we can see that the Liberals' proposal for a budgetary framework has unfortunately fallen. Nevertheless, we have wanted to pursue it in a separate opinion and tell us what we have in the budget for this year in Category 20 General Environment and Nature Protection. I can take it a little quick. It is the reinforcement of marine and water-related environmental monitoring. We think that is important. It is the clean-up and restoration of contaminated land with a special focus on residential construction and areas with a particularly high risk. I believe that we are even above the government's proposal. We propose permanent funding for support for the municipalities for beach cleaning. There we are talking about macroplastics and microplastics. It's just that the macroplastic over time becomes microplastic, so it's a lot connected. That's why we have to clean our beaches. We invest in restoration efforts to preserve and develop biodiversity, and we mention in particular the work of Artdatabanken, which we think is important. We want to provide the Swedish Chemicals Agency with increased resources in order to increase market surveillance with a special focus on products aimed at children. We also have national climate investments in our budget, but something more specific. Above all, we emphasise that they must be complementary to the market, that we must be more careful not to invest support and contributions in things that would be done anyway. In that pot we have not added charging poles, but we have that under Category 21 Energy. There, the Liberals have invested SEK 75 million in charging poles. In conclusion, as a Green Liberal, I am pleased and pleased that, within the given framework that we have, we in our party are investing and prioritising this particular area of expenditure, as we are doing.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1154	Mr President, I would like to Lars Tysklind talked about biodiversity, among other things. It is indeed a subject that falls under what we are discussing here and now. I think that the Liberals of the bourgeois parties – although I am not very impressed by any of those parties – are the party that still tends to stand out best in terms of biodiversity, nature conservation, forest and land protection and so on. Therefore, Lars Tysklind, I was so disappointed when I saw your draft budget. When you compare the Government proposal with the support of the Left Party, you can see that it is the biggest effort in a very long time for the protection of valuable nature and also for the creation of new national parks and nature reserves. If you look at the Liberals' proposals, you can see – now I want to be a little bit budgetary- regarding appropriations 1:3 Measures for valuable nature, which deal with the management of the existing nature reserves that we have, that you are cutting down by 300 million SEK. On appropriation 1:16 Protection of valuable nature, which is about creating new nature reserves and national parks, you cut down by as much as SEK 600 million – you halve that budget line. Lars Tysklind! You were talking about biodiversity. Then I wonder: Is biodiversity in the forest being increased by these major reductions?
i-de2172d592422bd6-1159	Mr President, I would like to I think it is a rather interesting discussion. When we discuss the budget, it becomes very budget-fixed. When we then go in and carry out evaluations, we are very much in agreement that it is not the funds that are important but the results. Maybe we can discuss this somewhere in this. It is not that we are not investing in this, but we are investing quite a lot of money. On the Liberal side, we are giving priority to this area, but on the basis of the framework we have set ourselves. You can always discuss how much tax you should collect. But from our side we believe that if you levy as much tax on entrepreneurship and work as you now do from the government, with the support of the Left Party, then you endanger the allocation of resources in these areas in the long term. It is in this context that we need to see this. We believe very much that, even within the framework that is given, a great deal can be done about biodiversity. What I mentioned and highlighted in my speech and which we have supported in the past is the work of Artdatabanken, which we do not think has perhaps been given the prominent place that it should have.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1162	Mr President, I would like to Now it is a budget debate. We are talking about Category 20, which is about environmental and climate policy. Some of the most important elements in that area of expenditure are precisely protection of a valuable nature and measures of a valuable nature, how we can manage the nature that we have better. It is almost silly to try to lead to evidence that a halving of these important appropriations could lead to maintaining the same level of ambition or perhaps even a higher level of ambition. Lars Tysklind! Why don't you just tell me the truth? You give priority to tax cuts for large companies and high income earners rather than protecting the environment. That's what this is about. I would like to know from you, Lars Tysklind : Do you really mean in full seriousness that we can get more nature reserves and more national parks if you halve appropriations 1:16, if you pull down with 600 million kroner, as you suggest?
i-de2172d592422bd6-1166	Mr President, I would like to It is just as Jens Holm says, that this is a budget debate. But a budget is a whole. There is a revenue side and a expenditure side. From the Liberals' side, we are very careful to talk about the fact that, in the longer term, the level of taxes that is being levied on the part of the present government, supported by the Left Party, cannot be taken out without jeopardising Swedish growth, which secures the necessary resources, including in this area. What Jens Holm is doing now is pipe thinking: now we are just discussing this. But in fact, the Liberals are investing SEK 700 million in the grant Measures for valuable nature and nearly SEK 800 million in the grant Protection of valuable nature. It is not that money is not being invested in this. But at the end of the day, it is a matter of priority. That is what the budget is all about. We believe that this issue is important, and we have prioritised it within the framework that we have set ourselves.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1169	Mr President, I would like to Today's debate is essentially about ecologically sustainable development. Sustainable development is a development that meets today's needs without compromising future generations and their needs. It is sustainable development. This is also described by a fundamental Christian democratic principle, namely the idea of stewardship, which says that we have a land to manage, not consume or destroy, but manage and care for. It gives us people a special responsibility. This responsibility is personal but also shared. It is not possible to pass on responsibility to other people or to society as a whole when it comes to changing lifestyles. It is the policy's task to bring about solutions and a functioning infrastructure for efficient recycling, for example. But ultimately the success of such a system is determined by people's will and motivation to participate. It is therefore necessary that the decisions taken are well-founded by research and that the links can be explained in a credible way to those concerned. It's a success factor. The climate challenge is highly global. Joint efforts are therefore needed internationally. Many of us rejoiced and breathed out when the climate agreement was adopted this weekend in Paris. I myself was not in Paris but sat here in Sweden and followed the whole thing. Most of the world's leaders claim to be satisfied with the agreement. The fact that all 195 participating countries were able to agree and adopt the climate agreement with common objectives is, of course, a historic event. At the same time, it must be seen as a failure that countries were unable to agree on concrete measures and credible emission reductions that lead us away from the climate threat. I think we can agree on that. If the temperature target of a maximum of 2 degrees and preferably 1.5 degrees of heating is reached, the target must be supported by means of instruments and concrete measures. This requires greater emission reductions than according to the level of ambition set by the countries ahead of the Paris Summit. This is why new initiatives at national and international level are now needed to drive forward climate change. It is also important that what has been agreed between the rich countries on responsibility for financing is respected. We have a moral responsibility to help and support the poor countries on their path to sustainable development. The Green Climate Fund was launched to help developing countries develop in a sustainable way. The Christian Democrats allocate 500 million in their budget option to the Green Climate Fund for 2016. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats' vision is that the Swedish vehicle fleet will be fossil independent in 2030. Not only do we have this vision and this goal, but they are shared by many. We therefore propose continued support for investments in charging infrastructure for electric and hybrid cars. The major obstacle today is the uncertainty about being able to charge your electric car. We allocate SEK 125 million per year during the period 2016 – 2019 to support the expansion of charging poles. In order to reduce the negative health effects of chemicals in society and to fund urgent climate action, the Christian Democrats propose to introduce a chemical tax on certain consumer electronics and on PVC materials in accordance with the Chemical Tax Survey's proposal. This is estimated to generate tax revenue of SEK 3.47 billion annually. The Christian Democrats propose that the reduction of the CO2 tax and the energy tax on diesel in mining industrial activities be abolished. It has already been reduced in a first step. Now we propose that the reduction be completely abolished. This is estimated to increase tax revenue of SEK 320 million annually. We also propose a tax on the incineration of unsorted waste in order to increase recycling and reduce emissions of environmentally hazardous substances and carbon dioxide. This gives increased tax revenue of SEK 220 million annually. Creosote and other wood preservatives are currently not covered by the pesticide tax. Creosote is documented both in terms of health and the environment. Better alternatives must be encouraged. The Christian Democrats therefore propose that creosote should no longer be exempt from tax. This change means a strengthening of the state budget by SEK 120 million. Since the 1990s, the responsibility for the recycling of packaging in Sweden has rested with producers according to the polluter pays principle. That is a very good principle. But now the government has announced that they will move the responsibility for packaging recycling from the producers to the municipalities. This leaves the government with the logical and effective polluter-pays principle, while giving packaging producers weaker incentives to develop new and more resource-efficient packaging solutions. Instead, we propose maintaining producer responsibility and thus the polluter pays principle. Mr President, I would like to In these words, I refer to the special opinion in favour of the Christian Democrats' draft budget.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1182	Mr President, I would like to Fires, droughts and floods are something that we now see as a result of climate change, not only in other parts of the world, but also, in fact, in our own country. In my county of Värmland, we suffered major floods in the 2014 election campaign. In Kristinehamn the water was high up on the square, E18 was washed away and in many houses the cellars were filled with water. I know that this also happened in Hallsberg, in Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell's county as late as September this year. In municipalities and regions you sit and think about how in the future you can mitigate these effects, because no matter how much we work and ensure that we prevent climate change, we will suffer from such things in the wake of climate change. When you think about what to do, how much it costs and what measures to take, it is important that somewhere there is someone who has a coordinating responsibility, i.e. what among others MSB and SMHI are looking at and doing investigations about. It is also important to have support to take various measures to make them less vulnerable in the future. I therefore find it very surprising that the Christian Democrats, in fact as the only party with regard to this budget, are cutting 90% of the appropriations for climate adaptation measures. I would therefore very much like to hear from Lars-Axel Nordell how you thought there.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1187	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. Unfortunately, I cannot tell you exactly how the discussions went in this group for us because I was not there. I am completely new in this context and in this committee. However, when it comes to climate investment, I have nevertheless found out and know that there are some differences between what the government is doing and what we are doing. But like the other alliance parties, we basically have the same budget as last year and we pass on the content of it to this budget. When the government parties say that we are cutting back, we are not doing so in relation to the previous budget, but in relation to what the government is doing. It is true that we are not spending as much as the government parties in this area. Charging infrastructure is an important part of this. In the same way as the Liberals, we have made an effort in the energy sector, and we have made an effort precisely with regard to charging infrastructure on the communication side. It should be seen as a whole and that it can be in different areas of the budget. That's the way it is.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1190	Mr President, I would like to I didn't think I got a real answer to my question. The Christian Democrats are taking away 107 million out of the 119 million allocated precisely in terms of the money for adaptation to climate change. That's 90% of that bet. It is this party that has focused on removing this particular money. My thinking was therefore why the Christian Democrats do not think it is important that we prepare ourselves for the changes that will actually take place in the wake of climate change. The Christian Democrats are also the party that has cut the most in the environmental budget. The Christian Democrats cut away 2.2 billion. That's 30% of the entire budget. The party also cuts down on another thing. I listened to Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell, and I think it is nice that we recognise that we need to be mutually supportive around the world to tackle the problem of climate change. That is precisely why I think it is very bad that the Christian Democrats, as the only party, are cutting away a quarter of the money in the climate investment account in other countries, that is, the poorer developing countries that do not have the money to make their own investments. I would therefore like to hear how the Christian Democrats think when they take away a quarter of the money for climate investment in other countries.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1195	Mr President, I would like to Once again, I would like to reiterate that we have a different framework from that of the government. It's perfectly clear. So we are not spending as much. We do not send the bill to unemployed young people who do not get a job, but what we did during eight years of government was to make sure that we had more hours worked. We know that it has meant a lot from an environmental point of view too that people have jobs. We are concerned that five farmers a week end. They keep the landscapes open and so on, and it is important that we can invest there too. It is not just about the bets on the accounts we are now talking about. It's all connected. It is very much about economics and that we have more hours worked. What the government is doing now is investing very much in a variety of areas, with large increases in spending. This is of course worrying because we do not know what it will lead to. We have a labour market policy where there is a lot of question mark today. As I said, the bill is sent to young people and the elderly. It will not lead to as many hours worked, and we know that hours worked lead to welfare. So this is a worrying development, and we will have to follow it and see.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1198	Mr President, I would like to Let me start with a quote. It is really very, very urgent. At the same time, however, this sense of urgency must not overshadow the fact that solutions to the problems will require far-reaching changes in attitudes and social organisation. ..................................................... It is Olof Palme who says this, and he does it at the UN environmental conference in Stockholm in 1972. In other words, it was urgent at the time, and it is even more urgent now. Then the world would have woken up. Researchers had pointed out that expansive developments did not take into account the finite nature of natural resources, and author Rachel Carson had written her famous book Silent Spring – in Swedish Silent Spring. It is about how toxins in agriculture killed our most common birds and is a book that in many ways created the environmental movement. These two events, the Stockholm Conference in 1972 and the book Silent Spring, can be said to be the beginning of environmental policy. We are now debating environmental policy for 2016, the Government's expenditure category 20. I would like to support the government's budget in this area, that is to say, the proposal contained in the report as a whole and the rejection of all reservations. We are debating the environmental budget, and we are doing so in the light of the fact that, this weekend, the world's countries finally managed to collect and decide on a new global climate agreement. I have to admit, it feels big. But the global climate agreement is a starting shot and not a goal line. It is good that the agreement is based on science and aims at one and a half degrees. It is very good that it becomes legally binding in international law. It is crucial that the five-year reviews of the countries' emission reduction commitments for higher ambitions came into place, something that Sweden and the EU have successfully pursued. It is worrying that the agreement feels weaker in terms of funding, and I am sorry that the countries have not submitted sufficient emission reduction commitments that actually take the world down to one and a half degrees. Rather, the commitments still lead us towards an unreasonable three degrees. However, it is a strength to get the global climate agreement in place. 186 countries have promised emission commitments, and 195 parties are behind the agreement. That is certainly the beginning of something better. The planet is not saved yet, but there is a plan and an international conscience in place that will prompt us to more and better measures. It's a starting shot, but it's not a finish line. Mr President, I would like to After 1972, we learned to gradually manage and adapt our operations to the environment. We Social Democrats are not alone, but in government and together with others we developed new instruments and regulations – in short, a policy for sustainable development. We developed the environmental code, and we developed the 16 environmental objectives. The idea of environmental objectives is to hand over to the next generation a society where the major environmental problems are solved. They are an important tool for dealing with the environmental challenges we face. The idea is that an individual environmental objective should not be overridden but that everyone must be solved in parallel. The present government, supported by the Left Party, has a hopeful view of environmental policy. This is evident in the proposal that Parliament now has on its table. Clearly, the Swedish system with the 16 environmental objectives will gain a stronger position in Swedish politics. Efforts to achieve the objectives are intensified. Today we are debating a number of proposals for new policies in order to achieve environmental objectives. It can be said to be at the last moment, because there are only four years left before another 14 of the environmental objectives should be reached. Today, we are able to meet one of the environmental objectives and believe that we can achieve another, but 14 are still there. I can't promise we'll make it. Eight, yes nine years of under-ambitious Swedish environmental policy has left its mark. However, the present government has expressed its role and its intention to pursue environmental objectives. Prime Minister Stefan Löfven stated this in his government declaration. Not once in the eight government declarations the moderate leader Fredrik Reinfeldt presented in this Parliament mentioned even the word environmental objectives. I'm going back to Olof Palme in 1972. He said it was a big challenge. It was then, and it is today. Resources are needed for challenges, and that is exactly what this government is now proposing that the Riksdag should set aside to meet environmental objectives. Compared to the decision taken last December by the Riksdag by a majority of the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats, this is an increase of 2.3 billion. We have allowed Parliament's investigation service to compare the environmental budgets for 20 years, and their review shows that this year's budget represents the strongest increase in the environmental budget during this time. That makes it clear, I believe, that the government's determination to do what this Parliament has given Reger no one the task, to meet the environmental objectives Parliament has decided on and to the next generation hand over a world we can be proud of. When Parliament recently laid down the financial framework for the environmental budget, five opposition parties proposed it. I would like to highlight one of them, namely the Center Party. I'm doing this to clarify a difference. The Center Party, which calls itself the Green Voice of the Alliance, has proposed a reduction in the environmental budget of nearly 2 billion in relation to the government's proposals. Mr President, I would like to In a way, we social democrats and environmentalists came to a failed and stagnant environmental policy where the challenges had grown and grown every year in a lack of action. In another way, however, we came to a table set. For during eight years of bourgeois rule, authorities and experts had not been on the lazy side. No, they had produced a number of sensible and reasonable proposals for measures, investments and instruments to meet environmental objectives. We have been able to choose, and here are some of the things we propose in this budget. We strengthen the work with a clean-up of contaminated land with SEK 350 million, for a more non-toxic everyday life and to enable a new development. We must protect more valuable nature, and we do so in order to comply with the UN Convention on Biological Diversity. We increased by 250 million in the spring change budget and increased by an additional 340 million. We know that we must preserve the diversity of our forests. We must ensure that the environments on which the endangered species depend are preserved. We are also increasing the appropriation for management of a valuable nature, because it has not been increased even though new reserves have been added. It is a totally unreasonable policy, which has led to less opportunities for the public to gain access to the reservations and less opportunity for necessary management. The meadows grow again, the moors are shrouded and the joints disappear. We are now proposing a substantial reinforcement of this appropriation, and I can point out that it will also lead to more jobs. In terms of climate policy, the government has set a comprehensive package aimed at meeting the Parliament's climate targets by 2020, i.e. 40% less greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 compared to 1990. The bourgeois government was prepared to buy itself free by including in the Swedish commitment emission reductions in other countries, for example through tree planting projects in Uganda that have taken away people's income and whose climate effect can be said to be doubtful. But now we have a government that is focused on taking responsibility for climate change without including emission reductions made in other countries, and that requires us to do more to meet our commitment. Here the government has a variety of measures, such as improved railway maintenance, increased public transport, investments in electric buses and more. But if there is one measure, I would like to mention a little more, and that is the climate action initiative. We know that all emissions are local. And we know from the report by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency on climate policy, Roadmap 2050, that the key to meeting the climate challenge in the long term is that we can plan our society to cope with the new fossil-free world that we are facing. This planning responsibility has the municipalities, which now have new opportunities for resource reinforcements in order to be able to take that responsibility, and it has been long awaited for many years. I believe that the Climate Centre, SEK 600 million annually, will contribute to a rapid roll-out of infrastructure for a more sustainable Sweden, for example an investment in elladdstålar, which is the first project to receive this year's support. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude by quoting Olof Palme once again at the environmental conference in Stockholm. He stressed the common international responsibility. He said, "The future is common." In community, we have to share it. Together we must create it. ..................................................... A long-term environmental policy that carries forward to meet the environmental objectives that we in this Parliament have decided on and to be able to take our responsibility for making a climate transition that also carries jobs and welfare, making the transition that humanity needs, will be facilitated if we can seek broad cooperation solutions. We need to take that responsibility. I think we should take that responsibility. It will require compromises, just as the world's countries had to compromise in Paris and have now given us a new global climate agreement. Environmental policy needs more starting shots, because we still have a long way to go. I apologise for exceeding the speaking time.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1224	Mr President, I would like to In view of the overrun in speaking time, I am sure that I will have an extra minute to change my line, because there is, Mr President, quite a lot to sort out after Matilda Ernkrans's speech. Let me start where Matilda started and quit, with Palme. Palme, I think, is a reasonable person to refer to in this context, because it really feels like the Social Democrats are going back to a much redder policy now. It is a strong left-winger and a much greater belief that politics always has all the answers, that it is here in Parliament that we can solve all the problems. There is a very clear ideological difference between the Social Democrats and the Moderates. We Moderates believe more in trying to create the conditions for individuals and companies to solve the challenges we face and, of course, we need a framework, but that people must be free to seek solutions. There is a clear difference here. Matilda Ernkrans beats the chest over that big bets are now made. It is possible that this is the biggest effort made in 20 years, or whatever Mrs Ernkrans mentioned in her speech. But she forgets to mention that it is probably also the biggest tax increases made at the corresponding time. There are strong increases in jobs and entrepreneurship that are at risk of slowing down the economy and leading to less opportunities for long-term investment in jobs and entrepreneurship. Matilda Ernkrans then criticizes the Alliance's efforts on climate investments. After all, it is now the case that the government has about 200 million to invest in climate change, but it does not intend to make any new investments. In fact, Matilda Ernkrans's answer is due to how the government will manage to meet the Swedish climate targets. I must also ask: do the Social Democrats not think that reductions in emissions in other countries are valuable and are useful both for reducing emissions and for contributing to the dissemination of technology?
i-de2172d592422bd6-1230	Mr President, I would like to It is fascinating to hear the bourgeois parties with the Moderates at the head evil each time over how a changed economic policy is of evil to people and businesses in this country, while the same political parties could easily take away up to 140 billion of our common tax money that worked in our economy, which produced a good environmental policy, a fair school, jobs and so on. They could remove those 140 billion in taxes, and not with a word did they ever talk about how it would destroy Sweden's economy. But when you do the opposite, it becomes a race and a huge impact on economic policy. I think that those representatives who use that way of arguing will be responsible for the answer. It is a conscious choice that you Moderates and the other bourgeois parties in the opposition make when you say that it is precisely the environmental budget that should pay the price because you do not want to strengthen the Swedish economy tax path. You could have chosen another area. But it is precisely the environmental budget that is to pay the price, the one that carries a sustainable transition, that carries jobs and welfare for our future. This is something that we need to work out jointly, preferably with broad cooperation solutions and with as much wisdom as possible that we can come up with together. What is it that makes you choose to let the environmental budget pay the price because you do not want to strengthen the Swedish economy with taxes?
i-de2172d592422bd6-1233	Mr President, I would like to Initially, I can see that Matilda Ernkrans did not answer my question on how to reach the climate targets if you do not want to make use of cost-effective climate investments in other countries. And I understand that Matilda Ernkrans and the government parties do not want to talk about how, but that they want to talk a little more fluffy about the high ambitions, how much money they invest. When you start reviewing the policy, you see that it is not connected and it risks not delivering very good results. Yes, Mr President, you spend a great deal of money. But I think that Gustav Möller, the old Social Democratic Minister, had turned in his grave over the fact that the government is dealing with taxpayers' money in this way. I have repeatedly asked questions about how to ensure that the climate investment programme, the new Climate Action Programme, is not affected by the same shortcomings that previous systems have experienced. But I have not received any answers, so Matilda Ernkrans is happy to respond here today to how it will be ensured that it delivers additional emission reductions in a cost-effective manner without high administrative costs. With the allocation calculated so far by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the cost will be somewhere over SEK 3 000 per tonne. Is that the total amount, or will there be even more expensive emission reductions in the future? There are a lot of questions Matilda Ernkrans should answer. Then I almost marvel when Matilda Ernkrans says that the government strengthens the Swedish economy through increased taxes. You slow it down. It makes it more expensive to hire and less profitable to work. A nail mat is being laid out for the Swedish economy, and this will affect environmental policy in the long term. It is not possible to be short-term in politics, at least when it comes to environmental and climate policy. The Alliance has delivered good results for eight years, and we would have continued to do so with a cost-effective policy if we had had the chance. I'm sorry we lost the election. But it is now, in fact, up to proof for the Social Democrats and the government.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1240	Mr President, I would like to We reach one of Parliament's environmental objectives, and perhaps one more, after nine years of moderate-led politics. If you don't have higher ambitions than that, it's clear that you might be satisfied on the part of the Moderates. I note that it is not money that should set environmental and climate policy in motion and change us in a more sustainable direction, and it is clearly not politics either, because the Moderates criticise this government and not least the Social Democrats for believing in the opportunities of politics. The question is what's left of it then. I believe that both money and politics are needed to achieve the climate goals that Parliament has set itself. That is also why, as I said clearly in my speech, this government is presenting not only policies but also money to achieve climate objectives. It goes without saying that the government and the Social Democrats think that we should be involved in helping other countries to make the transition as well, and above all that countries must continue to develop and build poverty and build prosperity around the world. It is not for nothing that the Swedish Government has added the most per capita to the Green Climate Fund. On the other hand, we are not going to do as the Moderates and the previous government and pretend that we can manage our own emission reductions by counting emission reductions in other countries. That's the difference. I have repeatedly answered Johan Hultberg's and Moderate's questions about local climate investments, Climate Change. It is obvious that it should go to those projects that do the most climate benefit. It is also clear that it will go to projects that reduce our emissions.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1246	Mr President, I would like to No, Matilda Ernkrans, it is not the environmental budget that is being sacrificed. Matilda Ernkrans and others say that the government is making a huge effort in this area. But as I said in a previous replica with Jens Holm : If you raise taxes by 32 billion, mostly on jobs and entrepreneurship, it is clear that you can make this effort. Liberals are also increasing their funding in this area by 1⁄2 billion. We are not cutting back on our draft budget, we are increasing. There is a clear gulf here that we have discussed. I am convinced that this will jeopardise future resources for this area too. If you put so much tax on jobs and entrepreneurship, it would be strange if it did not work. Raised taxes get it in all other areas. To be long-term, this is not a good method. We initiated green tax exchange, and we intend to develop it even more. I said I couldn't see any green tax change in the government proposal. But perhaps Matilda Ernkrans can clarify and give some examples. Green tax shifting means reducing taxes on labour and increasing it on environmentally harmful activities.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1251	Mr President, I would like to I am well aware of what green tax exchange means. Perhaps a seed for the future is sown now that the Liberals are taking this torch. But for eight years with bourgeois government where the Liberals, formerly the People's Party, did not devote much to green tax exchange. You definitely lowered taxes. 140 billion of what was our common resources for jobs and prosperity disappeared. But you didn't use the money to raise any environmental taxes, so it wasn't a green tax exchange. If you combine your gigantic tax cuts with our necessary changes in the area of environmental taxation, perhaps there will be a green tax shift under these governments. Liberals strike the same tone as Moderate Johan Hultberg. You do not think that more money is needed to make environmental policy effective. Nor do you think there is a need for more policy. You think it's a little too much politics from the government. Can the Liberals mention any other area that works better without money and politics?
i-de2172d592422bd6-1254	Mr President, I would like to Matilda Ernkrans sadly avoided the issue. It became more a review of what the Liberals, or the People's Party, did during their eight years in government. The conclusion to be drawn after eight years of alliance rule is that we have strong public finances. We have the finances in order, and they have to be cared for. Our basic principle of tax policy is not to increase taxes that hamper work and entrepreneurship. Instead, we need to get employment started so that we have more taxpayers. Our aim is to increase employment by 600 000 people. After all, I did not get an answer to my question about examples of green tax exchange, so it remains. It might happen, said Matilda Ernkrans. But does the government have a strategy for this?
i-de2172d592422bd6-1258	Mr President, I would like to If it is the Liberals' assessment that there was order in the finances and that they handed over a good economy to the current government, then our views will probably differ there too. You left your 75 billion in deficit, Lars Tysklind. If you had left an economy in balance or perhaps with a small surplus, it would not have done anything, for that money we would have needed today to the challenges and measures that need to be arranged in order for us to have a Sweden we can be proud of. If it had not been EUR 75 billion in deficit, we would have been able to finance our efforts in a different way from using taxes to ensure that we raise money for the common. But in my world, it is no wonder that together we fund things that we benefit from together, such as school, health care, care for the elderly and environmental change. With 75 billion in deficit, 140 billion that were no longer tax money that worked in the economy but that had been taken out of the economy and put elsewhere and a deficit in policies that drove the environmental transition, the government made the assessment that we needed to have a more environmental impact on tax policy. That is why we have chosen this path to fund our policies and get the environmental and climate transition that we so badly need and that carries jobs and prosperity into the future.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1262	Mr President, I would like to As Mrs Ernkrans so kindly mentioned the Centre Party in her speech, I intend to take this opportunity to have a small dialogue with the honourable Member. Matilda Ernkrans reiterates that the government is making a historic effort. However, as many have mentioned before, the effort is made at the expense of others. Let me take an example. In 2012, Swedish industry invested 12.5 billion in environmental protection. It is quite a considerable amount of money to improve our air and water. I do not see how increased taxes on entrepreneurship and jobs could create better conditions for business to continue working for the environment. In her speech, Matilda Ernkrans mentions the protection of valuable forests. That's good. But it is done at the expense of the active foresters in the country. If we are to achieve the sustainable transition that our society needs, forestry is an important key. If we do not have productive forest land, we do not have a forest that binds carbon dioxide. We need a forest that is harvested in order to make bioenergy and biofuels. Having good conditions for the production of forest is a basic prerequisite. The government has previously flagged for wanting mileage tax, and it places youth employers' contributions on an industry where many young people work. I don't think that's the way to go. I am curious about how the Social Democrats and Ernkrans view the role of productive forests in phasing out fossil fuels and reducing emissions.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1268	Mr President, I would like to Kristina Yngwe and the Center Party have previously stated in this debate that the environmental and climate transition is not about money but about something else. But what else is very unclear. I would argue that this is about money and politics. I would also like to say that the progressive business sector, not least at the climate summit we have just attended, has driven politics and the government, not only in Sweden but also in other countries. They have asked for a policy with both money and political instruments, to take Sweden and the world in the right direction when it comes to environmental and climate change. If, as the Center Party and Kristina Yngwe argue, there is no need for money and the Moderates' view is added that politics is not needed either, there is little left. But I do believe that the Center Party and the Social Democrats agree on one thing. I think there are more things, if you can sit down in peace and start talking about this, but one thing is that the forest should be used. The forest is a hugely important resource for Sweden, has been and will be, not least in the climate transition. For us Social Democrats – I hope this is also the case for the Center Party – the use of the forest, like the use of other resources, must of course take account of what our environment can bear. This is the very basis of Swedish environmental policy. That's why we have the environmental code and environmental objectives – in order for us to manage both to use our natural resources and to ensure that we do so in a sustainable world.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1273	Mr President, I would like to It feels like Matilda Ernkrans may have misunderstood the business community a little. Yes, the business community is demanding long-term rules to know where they're going. And yes, the business community is certainly asking for different forms of investment. However, something that business definitely does not demand is costly costs in terms of jobs and entrepreneurship. This is exactly what the current government is doing: it increases taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship and thereby makes it significantly more difficult for the Swedish business community to make climate investments. As far as the 12.5 billion is concerned, many voluntary efforts are being made by a progressive and forward-looking industry, as Mrs Ernkrans said. Then I do not really know why you should tax them for the work they do and then dunk it out on some different measures. One of these dutt issues is the Climate Tree, former Klimp. We have found that this is not always something that the municipalities are asking for. They would rather have long-term conditions, such as tools to work with free environmental car parking or congestion taxes, and to strengthen local self-government instead of putting some climate investment money out. I stick to Johan Hultberg's previous question. I do not feel that we have got any real clarity from the Social Democrats in how they intend to ensure that it will not be like with the Klimp money, how it will be ensured that the money makes a difference and will really be useful in terms of emission reductions and not just become money in the lake, as part of the money for Klimp actually became.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1278	Mr President, I would like to If the Moderates and the Center Party do not trust Social Democracy's assurances on how to deal with Climate Change, I hope you may have some confidence in the authority that has been given responsibility for distributing the money, Kristina Yngwe. It may be a start to look there if you do not trust the Social Democracy. Here's the thing: we Social Democrats and the government believe in politics. We believe that politics can generate money and steer it in a certain direction, in this case in a more sustainable way, in an environmental and climate transition that carries jobs and welfare. That is why we are making this historic investment in the environmental budget. Again: If you do not trust what the Social Democracy says, you will be very interested in the report that Parliament's investigation service has done and where you have gone through the investments in the environmental budgets over the past 20 years. We can see that this is an historic effort. It is put in a completely different light. The collective opposition wants to make major cuts to the environmental budget. The Center Party, which is supposed to be the Green Voice of the Alliance, removes nearly 2 billion in the environmental budget. It comes in a different light when the Center Party's environmental political spokesperson Kristina Yngwe calls Klimatklivet, which is 600 million kronor annually, for a dutt. If you think 600 million is a dutt, I can understand that you don't have very big problems with removing close to 25 per cent, perhaps even a little more, from Sweden's environmental budget. For me, it's not a dutt. It is a major investment in new and efficient local climate investments.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1283	Mr President, I would like to You will be proud to stand before your children and grandchildren and say: I was in Paris on December 12, 2015. That is what the French President Hollande said on Saturday when he thanked everyone who had contributed to the finalisation of a climate agreement. I think I too will be a little proud when I tell my grandchildren that I actually sat there in Paris and saw the club beat and participated in the cheer and hugging party. The climate agreement in Paris, despite its shortcomings, is a milestone. It is the first climate agreement that covers almost all the countries of the world and the first climate agreement that states that it is not two but one and a half degrees of warming of the earth's average temperature that is the critical limit. It is an agreement that states that countries' national promises on emission reductions will be updated every five years. But, Mr President, it is not a document in Paris that reduces emissions. It happens in quite different ways. V ad I know that I will proudly tell my grandchildren are therefore the stories about the active environmental and climate work that all environmental partners carry out and have carried out in municipalities, county councils, regions, parliament and government. The budget proposal now being debated in this House has clear green marks in many areas. The government's climate action is historic. These include more money for railway maintenance and more support for homeowners who want to put solar cells on the roofs, for farmers who want to make biogas from manure, for bicycle ventures, for electric buses and more. In the area of expenditure we are now debating, there are 600 million for climate investment – climate change, which we have already discussed in a lively manner in this debate. I think it's very strange. I'm thinking about the reality of alliance representatives, because when I'm out in municipalities, companies, county councils and regions, I know that this money has been very much awaited. LIP and Klimp gave us many exciting new projects that gave rings on the water and made others dare to invest in the same things. A lot of people have been looking for money. They have gone to energy efficiency, biogas plants, charging poles, filling stations and plants to reduce emissions of nitrous oxide and methane. These are some of the projects that have already been granted money this year. The government allocated 125 million in the supplementary budget last spring. I know that many more applied, so there is a good chance if you pick up the projects that really give the greatest climate benefit. But, Mr President, if we are to slow down climate change at one and a half degrees, we must put in an even higher gear. Then, here in the Swedish parliament and in the government, we must raise our climate targets, sharpen our instruments and invest more money in various measures. The Green Party is prepared to do so. I hope that other parties in Parliament will also be prepared to do so. I have, of course, seen that the parties that do not support climate action in this budget were, at least before Paris, not prepared to move in a higher gear. I can only hope they reconsider. Mr President, I would like to I will be proud to show my grandchildren Värmland's preserved old forests. This budget contains a historic, necessary and long-awaited billion-dollar investment in biodiversity. Next year there will be 1.3 billion to protect valuable nature and just over 1 billion to manage our nature reserves and national parks. Since our red-green government came to power, these appropriations have been increased by over 60%, not least for all the landowners who are now in line for compensation for their protected land. It is also for the benefit of future generations, who will be able to walk in real continuity forests, in the small remnants that today remain after decades of large-scale logging. Forests are important for a transition to a fossil-free society. With regard to forestry, we can combine sustainable yield with respect to biodiversity and outdoor life. With more clean methods, we reduce greenhouse gas emissions from fellings while the forest is still usable for hunting, recreation and tourism. For greater consideration in forestry, it is important to increase funding for nature conservation agreements and biotopes protection, as our government has done by 100 million in Category 23. It is also gratifying that a review of the Forest Protection Act has begun, i.e. a legal review. Mr President, I would like to On our journey around Värmland I will also show my grandchildren the nice residential areas where there are leftovers of sawmills, laundries and gas stations. Today there are many contaminated areas in our country, ticking environmental bombs. From some of them poisons and chemicals have already begun to spread along waterways. The polluter pays principle is here, as in all areas of the environment. But there are also many contaminated areas in our country where no one responsible can be found. More government money is needed for the country's municipalities to be able to clean up and thus prevent threats to human health and the environment. The government is therefore doubling the appropriation for the important work. Additional funds are allocated in the budget to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the Swedish Chemicals Agency and the Swedish Maritime and Water Authority, as well as for environmental monitoring and adaptation, for measures for the marine and aquatic environment, for electricity bus premiums etc. Finally, Mr President, this is an environmental budget that is a boost to environmental and climate work. I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1300	Mr President, I would like to Stina Bergström began her speech by talking about the climate agreement, which, in principle, everyone in this House seems to be pleased that it has arrived. We agree that it lays a good floor for the continued discussions and becomes an important tool for meeting the climate challenge, which is of course global. After that, Bergström went into national politics. It is right and proper, because that is what we are discussing, but it is also important when we are discussing climate policy not to take too nationalistic a view. The challenge is global. We must contribute to the greatest possible global emission reductions and ensure that our policy in Sweden does not mean that production or industries move to other countries. The Alliance has focused on cost-effective emission reductions in other countries as a complement to everything we do at home. So far, these efforts have resulted in global emissions being reduced by 30 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent. Now we support projects in 28 low and middle income countries and are included as contributors to eight or nine multilateral climate funds. New projects started last year were LED lighting in Cameroon and more efficient household stoves in Rwanda. The government's budget will put an end to new projects. Why, Stina Bergström, does the government not listen to the appeals of the poor countries that we in the rich world must contribute by supporting the expansion of renewable energy? Cost-effective climate investments are just one way to do that. Why are you stopping the effective possibility?
i-de2172d592422bd6-1305	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Johan Hultberg, for the question! It is not the case that the government and the Green Party, which are behind the budget, have any problems with us spending money on climate investments in other countries. The problem, especially now that we have a new climate agreement in Paris, is that the agreement says that all countries should reduce their emissions, submit national commitments on how much they intend to reduce emissions. That was not the case before. With the Kyoto agreement, a very small part of the world's countries would reduce their emissions, while many other countries, developing countries, did not have to reduce emissions. On the other hand, in the developed part of the world, we were able to buy emission reductions in other countries. I think it's a strange attitude that you should be able to buy emission reductions elsewhere. However, we should of course invest money and help other countries to reduce emissions. I can agree with Johan Hultberg that this work must continue in some way. But not all projects are good. Matilda Ernkrans mentioned a deterrent example, which we could see on television last autumn, where forests are planted on the land of poor farmers. Thus the farmers cannot make a living. We should not invest in such projects.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1308	Mr President, I would like to Now Stina Bergström says that investments are basically good, but we should not meet our goals with them. I find it a strange attitude to use cost-effective measures to achieve their goals. But we may have different opinions about that. There is nothing to prevent the current government from proceeding with its measures in Sweden while continuing to invest in CDM projects. But now it is over, because the government chooses only to finance the commitments already entered into and does not authorise to enter into any new projects. Sweden is therefore not able to enter more projects similar to those we started last year. There will be no more bioenergy projects in South Africa, biogas in Indonesia, wind power in Cape Verde or energy efficiency in poor households in Mongolia. It was such projects that Sweden was involved and started last year. I think it is fundamentally great that we are involved in starting and financing such projects because, Mr President, it leads to both rapid decline in global emissions and the spread of technology. This, in turn, helps poor countries to take a real climate leap by jumping over the step we have taken in the rich world, namely to get stuck in a fossil dependence. Through this type of investment, we can help these countries not to get caught up in fossil dependence. Unfortunately, the government chooses to stop the continued efforts. I object to this, because according to the Environmental Protection Agency's preliminary assessment, the reduction in emissions will cost more than SEK 3 000 per tonne, while CDM costs somewhere between SEK 70 and 80 per tonne. It is very strange that a price is obviously being put on climate policy, which means that it should be as expensive as possible, Mr President.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1313	Mr President, I would like to Climate policy must be solidarity-based. We have now received a climate agreement in which we say that all countries should reduce their emissions and make national commitments. Then it will be strange if we from Sweden say that we make investments in other countries if we get to pick their low hanging fruits and credit us those emissions so that we do not have to meet our emission reductions here in Sweden but can continue to drive our cars and eat as much meat as we want etcetera. We must do both, and I am convinced that the government is working on what projects it will invest in in other countries to help reduce emissions there. As I said, it is not certain that all CDM projects have been great in terms of how they have been done. It is therefore important to do the projects that countries want you to do. CDM projects are often controlled from above through various companies and organisations. I can imagine that we need to shift the focus so that we have more of a discussion about which projects the countries supported by climate investment think are important. It may not be to replant agricultural land, for example.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1316	Mr President, I would like to On Saturday night, a historic agreement was reached in Paris. The climate agreement that the international community has been negotiating for so long was finally agreed. I was there myself, and I have studied the agreement carefully. It leaves some other things to be desired, it will probably be said first. For example, there is a lack of quantifiable, scientifically based targets and dates for achieving emission reduction targets. It was one of the greatest hopes that one would get it into an agreement, but it is surprisingly positive that one entered that one should limit global warming to being well below two degrees. Measures should also be taken to try to limit heating to 1.5 degrees. The target of 1.5°C is the objective pursued by developing countries in global climate negotiations. It is also an objective that we in the Left Party have been exercising in this House, at least since I entered the Parliament. If we have a target of 1.5 degrees, this will mean new expectations for Swedish climate policy. Here in Sweden we have had the two degree target as the overall long-term goal. That is why we in the Left Party believe that we must speed up climate policy here in Sweden. We believe, for example, that we can achieve zero emissions by 2040 and not by 2050, as has been said so far. I think that with the draft budget that we are discussing now, there are many good proposals that are taking steps towards such an objective. That is why the Left Party is behind the budget as a whole, as is Category 20, which we are debating this evening. I would also like to say that there are some things that we had hoped we would have gone further along. We had hoped that we could have achieved higher climate targets by 2020 in this budget. We had hoped that we would have been able to have a strategy for phasing out environmentally harmful subsidies. Such subsidies are widespread in our country as well. These were two examples. However, as I said, this budget is clearly a step in the right direction. For the first time in many years, we are changing our course in Swedish politics and are now getting increased investments in both welfare and the environment. The environment and climate area is an area that has been on a famine course in Swedish politics for a long time. With this report, we are increasing the appropriations by just over 40%, from SEK 5 billion in last year's budget, which was the budget passed by the bourgeois parties with the support of the Swedish Democrats, to SEK 7.7 billion. As Matilda Ernkrans from the Social Democrats said earlier, this is the largest environmental and climate effort in at least 20 years. These initiatives include, for example, the local climate investment programme, which has already been debated here. It is about local initiatives that municipalities and county councils together with local companies can make to expand the number of charging poles and invest in renewable energy, energy efficiency, citizens' sustainable lifestyle and so on. I am absolutely convinced that this initiative will be even better than previous local climate investment programmes. The previous climate investment programme, the Klimp programme, as it was called, was rigorously evaluated by our expert authority, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. It was noted in its final report that the programme led to emissions reductions of 11 million tonnes in the period 2003-2012 and that 2.2 terawatt hours of fossil energy could be removed, thus leading to significant energy efficiency improvements across our municipalities. These emission reductions, which among others Johan Hultberg from the Moderates beats his chest over, have been able to do much thanks to the previous climate investment programmes. With this budget, we also get the biggest investment in long-term protection of soil and nature conservation in the broad sense. This does not mean that we can only get more nature reserves and national parks, but it also gives us better conditions for ecotourism, for example, all over Sweden. It can lead to new jobs and better opportunities for people to stay in rural areas if they wish to do so. In this budget there is also a doubling of the appropriations for land remediation. This is important, because we have many gravely destroyed lands around our country. But not only can the land be cleaned and chemicals, heavy metals and other things removed, but it also creates opportunities to build new homes, and that is something that we really need in this country. Our expert authorities The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate and the Swedish Maritime and Water Authority also receive much-needed, increased funding with this budget. This budget is far from perfect, but we see a clear difference between the right and the left. We are investing in increased environmental and climate funding. The reserveers, the Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats, represent different nuances of cuts in the billion-dollar class in the environmental field. In this respect, it is easy for the Left Party to take a stand. We are in favour of this budget and of the committee's proposal in the report. Mr President, I would like to I apologise for taking some time to speak, but I am chairman of the committee's monitoring and evaluation team, and an annex to this report contains our evaluation and analysis of the government's accounting for Category 20. We note in that analysis that there have been some improvements in the government's accounting of how to spend your money but that there is potential for improvement. We note that the government sometimes confuses efforts, i.e. measures taken, with the results, i.e. the results of the actions carried out. In this report, we are sending a call to the government to remedy it, to focus in their future accounts on precisely the results of the appropriations. As I said, this is an annex to the report.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1332	Mr President, I would like to I guess I'll just have to start as many others have done. It's hard to do anything else on a day like this. It was a historic decision that was made when, late last Saturday, the world's countries agreed on a global climate agreement. It is an agreement that is both ambitious in its objectives and fair. For the first time, the new agreement binds all the countries of the world to an increasing effort to reduce emissions, to adapt and to support and co-operation between rich and poor on the climate challenge. It is a milestone for the world and for global cooperation for sustainable development. It was made possible by many years of efforts by politicians and many other people from many countries. Environmental ministers from Sweden have been working hard since Copenhagen in 2009 to make this possible in the end. That is something for which we in this House should be grateful and proud. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all members of the Committee on Environment and Agriculture who participated actively on the ground, who followed and met climate actors during the meeting. I think we've all done a great job. Sweden has played a role as a forerunner and inspiration in the climate work. Among other things, we were chosen to speak during what was called Action Day in Paris. It was a day when countries, companies and other players with particularly offensive initiatives had been selected to give courage to the negotiations. I take it as one of several receipts that Sweden's ambitions inspire and engage others in the world. With the Paris Agreement, the start has been made for a significant increase in climate work for all the countries of the world. However, the difficult work on reducing climate emissions remains. We must now continue to work to increase the ambitions of countries so that the objectives can be translated into reality. The government in Sweden has a clear focus. Sweden will continue to show leadership through concrete measures at home, in broad collaboration with the various actors in society. We will become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries, and by doing so we can inspire and drive others. With the Fossil free Sweden initiative, more than 100 Swedish companies, municipalities and organisations are now involved in driving climate action, both at home and in relation to international contacts. Sweden challenges others about who can become fossil-free first. I know that there are those in this House who are questioning whether having the leadership shirt and showing good examples is really a policy that works. But I want to be clear: There are two strong reasons why Sweden should continue to strive to be in the lead internationally. The first reason is our responsibility. Sweden is one of the countries with the greatest potential to reduce our emissions. We must therefore take that responsibility and reduce emissions in our country, as a responsibility towards our children and future generations. The second reason is perhaps a stronger argument for many parties in this House. Because it's economically smart. I saw an almost unreal commitment from companies, cities, regions and various actors during the Paris meeting. They all wanted the world to move faster with a sustainable, circular economy based on renewable energy. The government wants climate-smart solutions that the world wants to be developed by Swedish companies. Sweden should be the first with the new. We're not gonna be the last with the old stuff. Financial market operators have already begun to move investments away from fossil energy. This is an expression of the logic underlying the Paris Agreement that has just been concluded. A green transition creates jobs. According to a report from the Club of Rome earlier this year, a transition to a renewable and resource efficient society has the potential to provide as many as 100,000 jobs, only in Sweden. Added to this is job growth when innovation and smart solutions become export services when a whole world starts changing. What does the climate meeting mean for us politicians in Sweden in the future? The agreement has laid the foundations for strengthened climate action in all the countries of the world. There is now a need for reinforcement and a policy in which Sweden is pressing for others. We shall do so by showing concretely how we reduce emissions in our own country. That's the only way we can be the precedent that has an impact in the international sphere. For the government, climate is one of the top priorities. This is clear from our proposal on the budget. The Government proposes a total of SEK 4.5 billion more for climate action next year. We also allow the polluter to pay through increased environmental taxes. It is an area in which Sweden was a forerunner at an early stage, but where we have seen other countries running around us over the years in terms of the impact of environmental taxes as a proportion of GDP. I am pleased to see in the opposition's budgets that the reasoning on environmental taxes is starting to take off in the Swedish parliament as well. I therefore look forward to renewed, strengthened cooperation in looking at those particular taxes. However, I regret that it is not able to follow with the government also in the parts dealing with concrete tax increases on the environmental side that we are already doing for 2016. They are necessary for us to have an economy that shows that it should be cheaper to do the right and more expensive to do the wrong. The SEK 4.5 billion in the Government's 2016 budget is spent on climate investments in the form of rail renovation and a significant increase in investment in solar cells for individuals, companies and other organisations. They go to electric cars, whose premiums get increased funding. And they go to pure electric cars rather than charging hybrids. It has been discussed in this House that it would be negative for the environment. But I would like to point out that it is positive if, when we see the market changing, we ensure that our support goes to the most environmentally friendly where the innovation power of the technology also needs to be pushed forward at its most. That is why we are now differentiating the super-environmental car premium, pending the introduction of a bonus – the Malus system, which I know there is a strong consensus on. Mr President, I would like to With this and with reference to good speeches by the government parties and those in this House who support the government's budget, I thank you for the very pleasant debate that I have listened to. I also wish Members of Parliament a happy Christmas break in the event that we do not see each other before then.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1350	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I want to thank you, Åsa Romson, for your efforts in Paris. I saw with my own eyes how hard you and all the officials in the Swedish delegation worked down there to get us to a deal. In the heat of battle, you may make different assessments of the content of an agreement. Maybe we're still doing it. But I fully share your message that it is now about putting this into practice, here in Sweden. I just saw that the UK Committee on Climate Change, which advises the British Government – several of us in this House have met them in London – is now considering revising the proposal on the climate budget for the period 2028 – 2032 that they have just presented. They propose more ambitious targets for future climate budgets in the UK. It shows how the agreement can and already now seems to be being used around the world to turn up climate policy. The agreement is to be adopted here in the Swedish Parliament. It will not enter into force until at least 55 countries, equivalent to 55% of world emissions, have adopted it in their respective parliaments. My question is simply: what is the government's ratification plan? When are you going to present the Paris Agreement? I think there are many of us here who are enthusiastic and who want it to be done as soon as possible.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1355	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jens Holm, for your efforts in Paris! I saw you were very active, too. I will take with me to the delegation that it is true that the officials from the Ministry of Energy and the Environment have worked very hard. When are we going to ratify? Yeah, that's a question I haven't worked out yet. The deal wasn't made until Saturday night. Since then it has not been so many days. Nor have I consulted the Government Office in a broader sense on the timetable. In the run-up to the agreement, EU countries have worked together to put pressure on other major emitters. Our emission commitment has been indicated jointly. It has been important, not only to exert pressure on others, but also to create a group in the EU that can deliver strong emission reductions. I am aware that not all EU countries have as enthusiastic actors in their countries in proposing sharp climate action. It has therefore also been important to ensure a high level of ambition within the EU community. As far as ratification is concerned, it will certainly be linked to the fact that we are ratifying at the same time as all EU countries. That's what I'm looking at. Of course, Europe has been a driving force, and we signal that we want to implement this as soon as possible. It's already announced a signature ceremony. It is the first step to mark from the governments that they intend to conclude the agreement. Then ratification is slightly different in different countries.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1360	Mr President, I would like to I think it would be a very good signal with a relatively rapid handling of the agreement. Of course it must be done carefully and rigorously. I do not know if I see the point of waiting for an okay from Brussels, but I think it would be good if Sweden could be one of the world's first countries to club this in Parliament, hopefully in broad agreement. It would be like a catalyst around the world to help other countries adopt the agreement. But I look forward to that process.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1361	Mr President, I would like to I also look forward to that process and will of course work to make it as fast as possible. At the same time, I am keen that we do not lose any EU countries along the way in maintaining the ambition of the EU, which is at least 40% reductions by 2030 compared to 1990. It is an ambitious commitment globally, even if it is less ambitious than what the government and many in Sweden would see as a contribution from the EU.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1362	Mr President, I would like to I would like to congratulate the Minister on his excellent PR work after COP 21 anyway. I read the paper this weekend and almost thought Åsa Romson had saved the world. But what really happened? When I examine this agreement in more detail, I note that it ended in principle with a large number of countries continuing to increase their emissions, such as China, India, Russia, South Korea, Mexico, Indonesia, South Africa, Turkey, Thailand, Kazakhstan, United Arab Emirates, Vietnam. It is countries among the top 20 that have promised to continue increasing emissions each year by 2030. You can look at Russia, for example. It has promised to reduce emissions by 25% by 2030. But what does it really mean, since post-1990 emissions in Russia fell sharply? Does this mean that emissions can continue to increase compared to today's level? So I wonder: was this really a success when most of the major emitters will continue to increase emissions by 2030?
i-de2172d592422bd6-1366	Mr President, I would like to Many comparisons are made with other more powerful agreements in their legal form, such as the Kyoto Agreement. I note that Russia's commitment in the Kyoto Agreement was even less ambitious. Several countries had extremely ungenerous demands in the Kyoto Agreement. It was nevertheless an agreement that Sweden and the EU countries thought was very important and that they would have liked to see a global connection to, but it failed to do so. After that, other forms have been sought because reality changes. Many more countries have adopted a development curve which, unfortunately, has resulted in very large emissions, a development curve which, not least, our country and many other European countries have been following since before. The only way forward is to achieve global cooperation. Then you have to start by respecting that countries have slightly different starting points. This applies not least to the discussion I have had with the Indian Minister for the Environment. He lives in a country where almost a fifth of the population does not have access to electricity. It means a great deal in everyday life for poor households, children who need education, for families who are going to cook if you do not have access to electricity. If we are to achieve global cooperation, it may be difficult to tell India to stop all its emissions tomorrow, but to forget that European countries have released carbon dioxide for 100 years. In order for us to have international cooperation, we will create clear agreements that also respect the different conditions that different countries have. I would like to oppose something you said in a previous speech. You said the deal isn't binding. Read Article 4(2) and explain to me what is not binding in it!
i-de2172d592422bd6-1373	Mr President, I would like to Swedish climate policy is based on the illusion that we should go ahead and thus get other countries to follow. But it clearly doesn't work. The other countries intend to continue to increase emissions over a long number of years to come. Indeed, through carbon leakage, our policy can contribute to increasing emissions in other countries. The European Commission has concluded that increasing energy prices by 1% in Europe leads to a 1.6% reduction in exports. The Swedish National Audit Office in its report More climate for the money has pointed out that neither the government nor the authorities have collected an analysis of the risk of carbon leakage in Sweden. The report Climate Policy and Leadership, developed in the framework of the Environmental Studies Expert Group, noted that high carbon taxes lead to carbon leakage. If emissions are to be reduced, then the focus must be on research and development and not on tax shocks. Is the Minister and the government prepared to reconsider their policy in this area, stop tax shocks and invest more in technological development?
i-de2172d592422bd6-1377	Mr President, I would like to I would like an explanation of how research into a technology other than the one we already have reduces emissions. Do you not think that solar energy, wind power and biofuels – I heard an interesting exchange of views here with the Center Party – is part of reducing fossil emissions? We already have these techniques. It does not require research and development, but requires market and implementation. We are going to spread the very successful reforms that have taken place, including in Sweden, by, for example, switching from cogeneration to bio-fired power plants. Why do you not want to spread such techniques? I do not understand the logic of the arguments of the Swedish democrats. On a straight question earlier this evening, they said: Yes, we believe there is a human impact on the climate. On the other hand, it was uncertain how big it is. Are you concerned that mankind's impact on the climate – according to very much-agreed research – can create enormous problems for us and for future generations? In what way do the Swedish Democrats believe that this problem should be tackled? One can of course divide all the countries of the earth into 10-million municipalities and say that each one is so small that one can not influence anything. I do not understand the logic of the arguments of the Swedish democrats. How does it reduce emissions by allowing additional researchers to think about solutions other than those we already have today? I am not against research and development. We invest a lot in it. But how would that be the solution and for what period of time, the Swedish Democrats say?
i-de2172d592422bd6-1381	Mr President, I would like to I personally thank Åsa Romson for her efforts in Paris. I also had the privilege of being part of the Swedish delegation and was able to note with my own eyes that both the Minister and the entire Swedish delegation worked very hard during the meeting. As the Minister said, this work has been going on for a long time and for many governments, and that is what has ultimately led to the good result. Although the agreement has its shortcomings and can be considered unsuccessful in some parts, it is fundamentally amazing that 195 countries have managed to reach agreement. The agreement provides a good basis for further work and establishes that all countries will contribute. We have now begun work on loosening the firewall that existed between rich countries and developing countries. This creates the conditions for a much more powerful climate work globally. We dive back into the Swedish. It is regrettable that the government, by halving the super-environmental car premium for charging hybrids, chooses to make it more expensive to be a green motorist. It is only a year left until you introduce the so-called bonus – the Malus system, which basically all of us in Parliament are behind. It is very unfortunate that we are once again creating this great twitch on the market and that we are in danger of slowing down the sales that have finally taken off. That Sweden should be a pioneer country is an idea that we moderates share. However, this presupposes that we reduce our emissions in combination with strong economic growth. We believe that it is only then that there are some countries that want to follow us. Does the Minister for Climate and the Environment share the view that the prerequisite for Sweden to be a leading country is that emissions fall while we have strong economic growth?
i-de2172d592422bd6-1384	Mr President, I would like to The fact that in 2016 we differentiate the super-environmental car premium between charging hybrids and pure electric cars has two reasons. One is that in the past year it has been obvious that the super environmental car premium has been very popular. It has increased government costs. There was also a lot of uncertainty. There was talk on the market about the end of the premium and so on, because the amount that had been clubbed for 2015 proved to be insufficient. It was a sum that the Alliance representatives had proposed. But with the additional budget, we will secure the system year out. Next year we will have to do something about the structure in order not to risk having the clean electric cars standing back and thus not having access to the premium. It is a significantly higher cost for pure electric cars than for charging hybrids. Then it is justified to differentiate the super-environmental car premium, as we see it. I don't know in what way the Moderates think it's better to just inject funds into charging hybrids. After all, clean electric cars produce an environmental effect that is at least as good or better. We still have the super environmental car premium for charging hybrids. I think that's a good solution. However, the increase in the cost of pure electric cars justifies that they also have a higher premium. I have a point of view in view of all the criticisms that are being levelled at the great climate challenge of local investment. By providing co-financing, we can scale up and make sure to implement projects that would otherwise not have come about or that would be bigger than they would otherwise have been. That is a reasoning that you obviously do not share. But when it comes to cars, you think that a premium is very important. I don't really understand the difference. If you co-finance a private person, it gives more cars. If you have co-financing for companies, it provides larger projects.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1387	Mr President, I would like to The Minister's final criticism I can partly understand. It is clear that we must ensure that these subsidies are also effective and useful. But we can note that the cost of buying a charging hybrid or an electric car is significantly higher than the cost of buying a conventional car. That is the justification for this aid. In this context, it is important to mention that we have the world's highest carbon tax and that it is primarily motorists and private individuals who bear that burden. In order to take further steps and speed up the conversion of the vehicle fleet, we Moderates believe that we cannot just use whips. I think you have to use a little carrots, too. That is the background to the introduction of this premium. Through bonus – the Malus system we are now hopefully getting a system that is really long-term and which also means that you can more gradually screw up the incentive and target the premium towards the very best cars. I agree that we should have environmentally differentiated premiums. The unfortunate thing about the government's policy is that it differentiates by significantly reducing the conditions for the charging hybrids. The choice could have been made to increase the funding and, if so, to increase the funding for clean electric cars. Unfortunately, however, the government chooses the second model. As far as Swedish climate emissions are concerned, the transport sector is a huge challenge. That is why we Moderates have several proposals for this sector in our budget. Another major challenge is the emissions of our industry. About a quarter of Swedish emissions come from industry, almost exclusively from the process industry, where it is difficult to completely eliminate that type of emissions. For example, the steel industry, with the technology we know today, is dependent on coal for processing iron ore into steel. That is why we Moderates have put forward proposals to establish a strategy for CCS, carbon capture and storage. We believe that this is a necessary tool for creating a climate-neutral industry. Does the government support this initiative?
i-de2172d592422bd6-1391	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by answering the final question. We support continued research into CCS. I think it's necessary. We also see this when we look at measures aimed at taking care of CO2 emissions. We in Sweden have great opportunities to get negative emissions from our bio-fired combined heat and power plants, for example. In other parts of the world there are other types of carbon sinks by, for example, getting more carbon into the soils and so on. Research and development in this area is still needed. The Moderates say that it is obvious that you want to work with carrots, but then only to car buyers. I think it goes without saying that we as a state work with carrots widely throughout Swedish society towards municipalities, companies and others who have concrete projects and concrete climate reduction work. Can it be scaled up? Can it be speeded up? Then we are doing exactly what the Paris Agreement has now instructed the countries of the world to do: Roll up your sleeves! Hurry up your work! Be happy to start from the good examples that work today, but be sure to scale them up quickly! This is what I believe the climate life has the potential to do. It's a carrot; I agree with you. But I think it's an effective carrot. It was this choice the government made, and we believe that this initiative was the right choice. Now I know that Johan Hultberg has no more speaking time, but I note that the Moderates cut the environmental and climate area by over a quarter in their draft budget. I regret that, especially because it is an area that is important for us to cope with welfare in the future. I believe in welfare and environmental benefits. I think they're connected. We can't get any welfare without a good environment. Nor can we have a good environment without building a welfare society. I think there's a lot of evidence to suggest that. Last but not least, I particularly regret the fact that everyone wants to cut back on climate adaptation. Sweden is also affected by climate change. We need to strengthen our climate adaptation efforts.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1396	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for being here today and debating this issue with us. I appreciate that. But I would also like to thank you, of course, for the part that the Minister has had in the agreement that is now in place. In addition, I would like to congratulate the Minister for mentioning the representatives who have been involved in ensuring that we have landed where we have landed. As many have said today, the agreement is certainly a very good basis, but it is not enough. Now it will take a great deal of work in many areas to be able to move forward, not only in Sweden but also in further international negotiations. A major initiative from Sweden in connection with COP 21 was Fossil-free Sweden. For my part, it is a little uncertain what the investment has meant. You had to sign a declaration, but there were no questions about what emissions ambitions you had and how you were going to work forward. It would be interesting to hear how the government intends to follow up Fossil-free Sweden with links to the business community and the organisations that exist. The government has highlighted the business sector at COP 21 and in the international climate work. Unfortunately, however, the government has chosen to raise taxes on entrepreneurship quite sharply. Ten per cent of the taxes that have been introduced are environmental taxes, and about 80 per cent of the tax increases apply to jobs and business, which the government and Åsa Romson have highlighted as so incredibly important in the transition to a fossil-independent Sweden. I would like to know how the government and the Green Party view green tax exchange and why this idea has been abandoned.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1399	Mr President, I would like to I thank the honourable Member for his commitment during the meeting. It is also former Members who have participated in the delegation. We had good conversations during the meeting. Fossil free Sweden is a way to inspire. It's about the government being inspired by what's happening. We see that we have municipalities that set clear climate targets. We see work on Fossil free 2030 around the country. We see companies that really work with benchmarking in their production and in their business models that are world leaders. This has been built up from the fact that there was an interest among companies and municipalities. In the first line, I have seen it as an important part of getting more people to make demands in Paris. But it is also about that we can get more Swedish companies and municipalities to be seen internationally. I think only three four organisations had signed up to the database for the Paris meeting. Now it's over 30 who have done it. It is part of making them more visible in the international work. It is a way for Sweden to push forward positions and push forward others. I'd be happy to come back with more thoughts. We haven't decided how to move forward. But continuing in some form I think is vital. Cooperation is mutual. I think we can inspire more. I am happy to take on board the views expressed by the members of the committee on this matter. With regard to green tax shifting, it is easy to debate the tax burden. It is tax pressure that has been the polarising issue between the previous government and the current government. The previous government cut down, as was said, by over 100 billion. This government is raising 30 billion. It is about the tax burden you see necessary to get the necessary revenue or what you think is devastating and brings all businesses to ruin. When it comes to green tax shifting, it is important to see: How can we develop modern environmental taxes that can be both stabila and government in the right way? Here I appreciate the fact that several of the opposition parties have exercised this exercise in the discussion of the budget.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1407	Mr President, I would like to It will be exciting to follow the work with Fossil free Sweden. I absolutely agree that it will be an important challenge for Sweden in the future to see how we can better control environmental taxes so that we get the development we want. I mentioned earlier that industry spends 12.5 billion annually on environmental investments. If it is then tax increases on jobs and entrepreneurship, that money will go into the state instead of companies being able to make their own investments. As we have said before, it is not a zero-sum game. The more we get in jobs and the more people that can be hired, the more money comes in that can then be used for different climate measures or environmental measures. We've mentioned the climate life a couple of times. I'm a little curious about that. It has been distributed a little bit of money, close to exactly 172 million. I have absolutely nothing against giving incentives and support to those who want to make investments. But we have seen the progress of those who have so far received money. For example, Swedish Biogas received money. That's good. On the other hand, it has had to wait five years to obtain an environmental permit. This, in turn, has changed the conditions for productivity. There are many things you need to work with in terms of regulatory simplification, faster licensing processes, strengthening municipalities' self-determination, the possibility of congestion taxes, controlling environmental parking and free environmental car parking. It is a lot of things that can be done. I'm coming back to the Climate Tree. It has been distributed 172 million. As things stand, most of the money goes to metropolitan areas. I would like to know how the government works and thinks about how to get it out in the whole country and also in those areas where the market does not control.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1412	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question of how the climate can develop in order to better steer towards the whole country. I note that the Center Party is one of the parties that is calling for complete rejection of the whole initiative. It does not want a single krona to go out somewhere in the country as co-financing from the state to hook arms with municipalities and companies that do, among other things, charging infrastructure. It's a company that builds it. They're not others. It is quite right that money has been distributed this year. We wanted to start the venture as early as possible. Aid has been granted for investments which, in total, are estimated to produce 1.2 million tonnes of climate reductions. I know you have alliance colleagues who would rather invest it in other countries alone. But I think it is important that we also invest in conversion in Sweden. I think we'll get better out of it in the future. We also need to change in Sweden. Then we need to start somewhere. I believe that climate change is an important part of that if we can manage it properly. I fully agree that it is desirable that there really be a commitment throughout the country. There is a need for a change throughout the country. I'd be happy to get back to you on how to clarify it. What has been important, not least after previous evaluations, is to be very clear about how to allocate the money. They are distributed according to climate benefit. It is possible that some metropolitan municipalities had projects completed earlier than the smaller municipalities. I hope we'll get involved with the support. It is long-term support throughout the term of office. All municipalities and companies, no matter where they are in Sweden, will probably have the opportunity to present their good projects.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1417	Mr President, I would like to This might be a discussion on the same theme. I would like to join in thanking you for your work in Paris. It was amazing to be in place, feel what happened and how it could be pushed forward all the time. The French Presidency was adept at this. I would like to point out that I share the Minister's view that we should keep the EU countries together in the future work. I think it is very important that we do not have any kind of race in Europe. If we do not stick together, we lose our strength in Europe. It was good that the Minister highlighted the companies. As has been said here before, the key is in the hands of companies. It is about creating growth, prosperity and development. It's in the companies. They somehow have the key role to play. That is why today we are getting into the debate about the tax burden and how much the state is investing. I suppose the Minister also sees this contradiction. It increases taxes on entrepreneurship and labour and then distributes it as support. I would like to hear whether the Minister has had some sort of discussion about this contradiction. It's still pretty obvious.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1422	Mr President, I would like to It is easy that late in a debate we want to move more in the philosophical direction. I note that you, too, on the part of the Liberals, are disappointed by the desire to cut so much into the environmental and climate budget. I basically believe that a good environment is conducive to a welfare society and the development of companies. We must all jointly secure our environmental objectives. I agree with previous speakers who have pointed out the opposite in talking about safeguarding environmental objectives and at the same time wanting to reduce 1 billion on biodiversity. The environmental objectives show so clearly that we need to increase investment or change the regulatory framework so that they are completely different by placing enormous responsibility on individual landowners to preserve biodiversity. Among other things, the Liberals and other parties have opposed this. Then they should at least want to be involved in paying for the biodiversity that meets the environmental objectives. I'm sorry about the irritable outburst. Now I'll try to answer the question. It is obvious that there are tax pressures that would completely knock out all entrepreneurship and economics in Sweden and that are not good. At the same time, I think there is no one who can see exactly where it is, but there you have to feel forward. This is what the government is trying to do by facilitating entrepreneurship. At the same time, it can be seen that the very severe reduction and subsidization of employers' contributions depending on the age of the worker may not have been the most effective response. We would rather invest in support for young people or those who, for other reasons, are outside the labour market and help them enter. When we see the youth unemployment figures right now, we do not think there is a risk that there will be any backlash in that area.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1425	Mr President, I would like to Then perhaps I can inform the Minister, in terms of the way in which the employer's contribution is thought, that the Liberals have also invested in the youngest ones. We believe that it is they who have the highest threshold to enter, so perhaps we can share that view in some way. National climate investments have been spent by the Liberals on 200 million. Then we have spent 75 billion in the energy expenditure area on charging poles. We see that there are certain things you should be able to bet on. But what is important, as we point out, is that it must be market complementary. Perhaps that is what some of the criticisms have been about, that much of what the state has been involved in paying would have come about anyway. Another question is how one from the government looks at how to ensure that one really invests in the right things. Then I believe a lot in what Kristina Yngwe was into, that perhaps in other parts of the country it is a bit more difficult than in the high-exploited areas to get to investments.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1428	Mr President, I would like to I may ask the same question to Lars Tysklind as to Johan Hultberg: How do you ensure that the individual car consumer would not have bought an electric car or a charging hybrid without state support? I think it is a very difficult issue to evaluate objectively and precisely. What I want to see evaluations of – and, of course, are prepared to adjust the climate environment from outside – is if it would not help to not even scale up projects and investments, that there will be no more charging poles m ed The climate life than it was thought would have been otherwise. Who else would have gone in? With regard to the projects that I have seen so far that have received money – I stress once again that it is only about the amount that has been decided so far – it is estimated that it produces 1.2 million tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions. This can be seen from the emission reduction, but also from the innovation power in the country, because these are local investments that are being scaled up or contributed. Everyone else spends money, too. Companies and municipalities raise money. That's how you pool the resources. On the other hand, I have a question back to the Liberals, with their national climate investment and national charging poles programmes: Should the state now duplicate and do what several regions, municipalities and companies have already begun to interact about and do? I think it is better policy that, as the government does, we are part-financing the good projects that are actually reducing emissions in our country now, so that they can become more, bigger and better.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1432	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for the work done by the Minister for the Environment in Paris and before Paris and for the result that has been achieved. It was a historical result, that everyone was there. I may well borrow a saying that Göran Persson launched: proud but not satisfied. I think we can be a lot of people who feel it. We can be proud of this, but it is clear that we are not satisfied with the failure to reach agreement on the concrete measures for emission reductions. It'll have to be something you have to work with. I would like to mention a few things. I come from Örebro, this year's environmental municipality. I have read about and followed some of what has been done. By 2020 it will reduce its own climate load by 40%. You can do that by far, writes Environmentally topical. Then there are further plans for not only their own activities but at all in the municipality. It's exciting that you do it. It is also written that the most impressive thing is environmental work on the financial side. Then I wonder a little how the Minister for the Environment sees what can be done at the local level. This applies to the companies, which I have talked about, but also to the public sector and, above all, to the municipality. I wonder what the Government's ambition is to understrip the municipalities to do things that are really quite easy to do, as I understand.
i-de2172d592422bd6-1436	Mr President, I would like to Örebro is one of the successful cities that want to show off and want to push others, both in Sweden and abroad. Örebro is a member of Fossil-free Sweden, and they have received several major awards. If I am not mistaken, the responsible municipal councillor is a Christian Democrat and is proud, among other things, to have developed ideas on how to control investments and capital that the municipality has, in order for it to also be involved in generating sustainable development. I think it is a very interesting initiative and notice internationally that Gothenburg is outstanding, because it was the world's first municipality to launch green bonds, green farmers. Johannesburg made a huge deal of just green farmers during the Paris meeting and got a lot of attention for it. This is something that large pension funds were very interested in. I will mention an example that Sweden has been involved in contributing generous contributions to: the Green Climate Fund. One of their first projects, which they decided on before Paris – to demonstrate the strength of the support that a green climate fund from all the countries of the world could provide – is to provide support to the Caribbean to develop green bond projects. It is a project with government capital and public support initially to set up the system, but where private capital then has the opportunity to invest in the green bonds. In this way, we will have good cooperation between public capital and private. I see that it works just as well at local level as at regional level, and there are discussions in the government about looking at a green investment bank, where this type of initiative can also be used. We are inspired by the local level and by Örebro, so welcome home!
i-de2172d592422bd6-1441	Mr President, I would like to One issue that concerns many municipalities is the growing garbage mountain with packaging, which often takes more space than the gadgets themselves. Now the government intends to change the principle that the polluter pays, by lifting the responsibility for packaging recycling from the producers to the municipalities. Then I wonder, what were you thinking?
i-de2172d592422bd6-1443	Mr President, I would like to Then I can inform the honourable Member that it is not a question of taking over packaging responsibility from the producers. What an investigation is looking at right now is whether one can further develop the investigation that came already a few years ago and who stated that in many municipalities it was a strong desire to have easier opportunities to organise, so that households can leave their everyday waste more easily in a sorted way. There, the producers of newspapers and packaging would cooperate with the municipalities, but the municipalities would have the responsibility to collect. This will not mean that it is always the municipality that collects, because many of Sweden's municipalities have other entrepreneurs and companies that collect. This is what an investigation is looking at, and it will be submitting a report in January, if I do not remember wrong.
