i-9e0e897577fb97f2-4	Mr President, I would like to Roger Haddad has asked me whether the government has decided that Sweden will participate operationally in Europol's action in social media against terrorism, whether I and the government will take the necessary measures to enable Swedish participation in the operation and how I and the government will act in the light of hundreds of young people being recruited to travel to the conflict areas in Iraq and Syria. Europol is responsible for supporting and strengthening the law enforcement authorities of the EU Member States in the fight against serious crime and terrorism. On 12 March this year, the Justice and Home Affairs Council agreed that a specific function should be established at Europol. The purpose of the new unit is to counter the recruitment to terrorism by spreading violent ex-tremist messages via the network. The new unit is called the European Union Internet Referral Unit, EU IRU. The work of the EU IRU is to compile information on the location of terrorist propaganda online. In the next step, the unit analyses the information on the basis of Europol's mandate and the EU Framework Decision on combating terrorism. If the information is deemed to be terrorist propaganda, it will be possible, in a third step, to inform the companies responsible for the platform on which the information is disseminated. For example, it can be Facebook, Twitter or Youtube. It is hoped, then, that these companies have a user policy that does not allow their platforms to be used for this type of terrorist propaganda. However, there will be no obligation on Europol to close down websites or delete information. It is based on voluntary action by private operators. In addition to this system, national authorities will of course continue to investigate as far as possible the crimes that may be responsible. Swedish law enforcement authorities are actively involved in Europol's work in many areas, including the newly established EU IRU. Cooperation consists primarily of participation in meetings and exchange of information. International cooperation is both a necessity and a matter of course today, but the operational assessment is always carried out by the competent authority. The Security Service will therefore decide for itself, from an operational perspective, whether information on terrorist propaganda found online should be sent to Europol. Similarly, the Security Service itself decides on the measures to be taken on the basis of the information provided by Europol. When the Security Police make their assessments, it is my starting point that they take into account both legal aspects and the common benefit of an effective international exchange of information. In this context, it is also important to remember that it is not only through cooperation in the EU IRU that we can and should counter violent extremist messages online. One of the most important measures is to strengthen children's and young people's ability to question anti-democratic and violent messages. Such work is ongoing under the leadership of the Swedish Media Council on behalf of the Government. Sweden also participates in a network of EU states for the development of strategic communication against extremism and terrorism. The government is taking strong action in a number of areas to combat terrorism and violent extremism. Only in recent weeks has the government decided on a completely new strategy against terrorism and submitted a letter to the Riksdag, Measures to make society more resistant to violent extremism, which reports on measures taken. In this way, the government is equipping itself to meet the challenges that exist.
i-9e0e897577fb97f2-9	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Home Affairs Anders Ygeman, for the answer to my interpellation! The background is, of course, the terrible scenes that we are being fed daily in both traditional media and not least in social media, which is also the theme of the People's Party's interpellation. In a television feature this spring, the Minister of Justice commented on the planning of this unit of the European Police Cooperation Organisation (Europol) and expressed in principle that it was not an active partner in this cooperation. The People's Party reacted to this and then put a written question to the government. The answer revealed that we are certainly participating by supporting, among other things, the organisation Europol. True, we are members and contribute financially. We also have a couple of three police officers in place and from customs. It cannot have escaped anyone's professional practice of horror propaganda by the Islamic State, how they produce and distribute daily material with beheaded people, children being exploited and homosexuals being pushed down from buildings. These are horrible scenes. Several countries have reacted to it, and most people find it detestable and need to be stopped in some way. Nevertheless, the horror propaganda continues to spread through our media, not least to our young people. This also happens in Sweden. There are even, Mr President, Swedish terrorists who have travelled to Iraq and Syria, participated in and carried out terrorist activities and then returned, produced, laid out images and glorified these heinous crimes. What we know is happening on Twitter alone at least 100 000 tweets, i.e. receipt, per day from the Islamic State. It's just one of the social media. In addition, there are Youtube clips and Facebook posts. The question was whether we are participating operationally in the Europol anti-terrorist unit from 1 July. The Government says in its reply that we participate in meetings and have an exchange of information. I visited Europol on the first week of September, and my interpretation is definitely not that we are involved operationally, but that we meet sometime every month or every two months and receive information. Moreover, it is not the Security Service that is participating, but the police officer who is currently there, and that is what is of interest to the People's Party and this interpellation debate. If we think it is an important unit, and we think so, the question is why. Because Sweden is one of the five to ten countries in Europe, Mr President, which is most affected and vulnerable to the number of young people, in our case Swedish young people, who travel to the conflict areas in Iraq and Syria. I would like to know whether there is any ambition or idea on the part of the Council of Ministers to actually change up our efforts in Europol.
i-9e0e897577fb97f2-16	Mr President, I would like to Yes, we participate actively in Europol in both operational and strategic meetings. We participate in the governance of Europol through board meetings. We also participate by using the EU IRU to the extent that there is such information in our language that we want to make the various suppliers aware of in order to be able to use their regulations. But no, the government will not tell the Security Service that they will have more operational work than they do today. The work the Security Service is doing today is what they have considered to be the most effective. It may be that, Mr President, there is information that the Security Service does not want to report to the EU IRU and Europol for conducting a preliminary investigation and instead of having a film removed from the website, the perpetrators of the crimes are being convicted in Swedish courts. I think we will see a number of such cases.
i-9e0e897577fb97f2-18	Mr President, I would like to It was a very brief speech by the Minister for the Interior. I am very concerned that more than 300 people have travelled to Syria and Iraq, most of them to participate in Islamic Taten's terrorist activities. At least 100 people are back in Sweden. Both according to what the Swedish Security Service says and according to what the Swedish Defence University and the researchers who work with this daily mean, social media is the instrument that is most used to recruit and radicalise people, not only in Europe but also here in Sweden – in Östersund, in Gothenburg, in Örebro and in Eskilstuna. I am therefore surprised that there is no higher ambition to participate operationally. When we visited Europol in The Hague in the Committee on Justice, we were told that there was no special contact there with Mr Säpo, at least not operationally and definitely not on this issue. Both Morgan Johansson, the Minister for Justice, and the Minister for the Interior have gone back and forth to Brussels and made great promises about things that I also think are important: we need to do more, and we need to stop recruitment and radicalisation. We must prosecute more of the people involved in these heinous crimes. When it comes to social media, we also know from the Security Service's comments that there is surveillance there. It is even known which people engage in radicalisation and try to recruit on certain websites. Yet not one of these people is behind bars. That should be the goal. Does the government and the Minister for the Interior have any idea of how big this problem is? Have you done a survey of how many pages it is about? Have we turned down any pages? Jag does not mean that the authority would have done so without it being able to do so in consultation with the companies. Is this a problem or not? After all, it is only if the Minister for Home Affairs and the Government think that this is a problem that they can actually come back with political measures.
i-9e0e897577fb97f2-24	Mr President, I would like to Here, apples and pears are mixed together, and oranges, strawberries and kiwi fruits are added to a large fruit salad. Let me make a few important points. The government, the Swedish state, the Swedish police and the Swedish security police do not turn down websites. It is not compatible with the government form and the Swedish constitution. On the other hand, Swedish authorities participate in the EU IRU and report material that may conflict with the company's own user rules, so that the companies can assess it and, if so, remove the material themselves or do what is relevant according to their user rules. But Swedish authorities have to live up to the Swedish constitution. It is a major problem with radicalisation and recruitment online. But messages must be met with counter-messages. We must be able to take the debate with those who stand for the message of violence. It can't be met with us turning down websites or not being able to see it. There is a relatively good picture of what this environment looks like. But it is not really linked to the issue of the EU's IRU. In each case, the police and security police must make their own operational decision if it is useful for the activity they carry out to report content on a service there. There may be strong operational reasons against reporting such material there. The people involved may be the subject of police and security police work on exactly what Roger Haddad and I think is desirable, i.e. preliminary investigation in order to put them behind bars. This may be a disadvantage if you report individual content online. The government has presented a comprehensive strategy against terrorism, a strategy that I have noted that the People's Party is very much in agreement. I'm grateful for that. We have also presented to the Riksdag a comprehensive strategy for what we want to do to counter radicalisation online. I believe that there too we have a strong consensus between ourselves, the People's Party and several other parties in the Riksdag. My hope and my absolute belief is that, now that we are also getting legislation in place where the organisation, recruitment and financing of terrorist war trips will be illegal, this will also lead to a substantial increase in convictions.
i-9e0e897577fb97f2-28	Mr President, I would like to The People's Party has realised that this is a major problem in the past. There are government documents and resolutions from 2008 and most recently from 2011 where we gave assignments and educational resources to the Swedish National Agency for Education and the Swedish Media Council, which they presented in 2013. Cecilia Malmström, former Home Affairs Commissioner, also initiated an anti-radicalisation network at European level. We have tried to draw attention to this, but that is not enough. I like fruit salad, but it has no relevance in this debate. This is precisely about Europol – the European network in which police, prosecutors and security services cooperate within certain borders against serious organised crime, trafficking in human beings, child pornography and also terrorism. The point at the very top of Europol's agenda right now is terrorism. I am surprised that Sweden does not participate in the core of this work. I spoke to the representative of the Netherlands. She said that Sweden does not participate in the Nine Group, where the countries most vulnerable in the European Union have dedicated resources and staff and participate operationally in the true sense of the word and not just in information meetings. I didn't tell you Säpo was going to shut down websites. It says in the answer and in the questions that you do it in collaboration with Youtube, Twitter and Facebook. However, the director of Europol said that the aim of this unit is precisely to put terror propaganda on social media to an end to these thousands of websites that attract our young people from Swedish cities to these war zones on a daily basis. I hope it comes from the government.
i-9e0e897577fb97f2-32	Mr President, I would like to If Roger Haddad claims we don't participate operationally, Roger Haddad is wrong. It is true that Sweden does not have any seconded staff in Europol's EU IRU, but only two countries have: the Netherlands, which Roger Haddad apparently has met, and the UK. The other 25 Member States do not have seconded staff. We participate operationally in all ways that you can participate operationally – at meetings, in boards and in police cooperation. I only met the director of Europol on Friday in Luxembourg, and I have met the director of Europol on a monthly basis, every two months. It has never been stated at any of these meetings that Sweden would not participate in a good way or that Sweden could participate more operationally. We do; Roger Haddad does not have to worry about that. It is true that the People's Party did some good things in the government. That's what you're supposed to wear. But it is also true that you did not do what was necessary, that you did not change the legislation so that we live up to UN resolution 2178, that you were unable to criminalise the terrorist war trips and that you were unable to criminalise the preparation, organisation and recruitment of terrorist war trips. Behind my back is Urban Ahlin, who is now President, who wrote debate articles on this and demanded this from the government. What happened? Nothing. There wasn't even a paper at the Justice Department on how to start work. There was not even a draft directive for any investigation. That's what it was like. That is why it is gratifying that we have now started it – there is a ready-made investigation proposal – and that this winter we will pass the laws needed to combat terrorism.
