i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-3	Mr President, I would like to Christian Barenfeld has asked me what measures I intend to take with regard to the age limit for the start-up premium. The government sees as its most important task during its term of office to increase employment and permanently reduce unemployment. Our employment policy is based on people's desire for work and development. Work means opportunities for self-sufficiency, community, belonging and the power to shape one's life and future. In the 2016 budget bill, the Government proposes, among other things, that all job seekers, regardless of their professional background and level of education, should be supported and guided in an active job seeker. The many opportunities offered by labour market policies are to be exploited effectively by giving the right action to the right person at the right time. The previous governance of the Employment Service was too detailed, with, for example, too many time limits limiting what efforts could be used for job seekers. The government has started work on reforming governance and implementing simplifications in the labour market policy framework in order to provide greater scope for professional assessments. A study carried out by the Swedish National Audit Office of the programme "Support for the start of business" shows that participation in this programme was better for the individual than being openly unemployed or taking part in employment support during the same period. The results of the study showed that it was a programme with good results, even for young people. The Employment Service's own evaluations show that support for the start-up of business activities is deemed to have good employment effects. The beneficiaries of this support have moved to work more quickly and to a greater extent than participants in other labour market policy programmes. Against this background, the Government considers that Parliament's announcement last spring that young people under the age of 20 should also be given the opportunity to take part in support for the start-up of business is an urgent issue. In the announcement, the committee points out that completed studies with full grades provide a good basis for employability and that this should also be the starting point for granting the programme, even if derogations should be possible. I think that is a wise starting point. The rules governing a minimum age to be granted aid for the start-up of economic activities currently include several age groups. The question of how best to reduce the age limit to under 20 is currently being prepared in the Labour Department. If the government can make it easier for more young people to get a job by starting their own business, we will.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-9	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the positive response to my intervention, the Minister for Employment. Again this time, I am pleased that the answer came within the timeframe we have for interpellations. I have previously expressed a positive view of this to the Minister for Labour. We debated this issue in the House on 19 March when the Parliament announced to the government that it believes that it should lower the age limit and allow start-up-own subsidies even for those under 20 years of age. We know that we have high thresholds in the labour market and that far too many young people have difficulties getting into the labour market and getting jobs. We therefore feel it is urgent that we create more pathways into the labour market. One such important route is to start your own business. It is about improving opportunities to increase entrepreneurship. We know that the start-up grant, called support for the start-up of business, is an effective and good way for the state to help people start their own business. It is the labour market policy programme that has produced the best results in terms of the share of work after the end of the programme. That is a degree of flexibility today. But we do know that there are limits to age. We gave the announcement in the debate on 19 March 2015. It is today, 8 December 2015. I would like to ask the Minister for Labour: what is the work of the Government Office? What's the schedule? When does the Minister for Labour assess that the government can deliver what the Riksdag has asked the government to deliver?
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-15	Mr President, I would like to As I have already said in my reply, it is wise to try to remove age limits and time limits. I believe that labour market policy should be more flexible, less rules-driven and provide more scope for professional assessments of the employment intermediary in the meeting between employers and job seekers based on the conditions that exist. I therefore welcome Parliament's announcement. There are a number of different regulations that need to be amended in order to achieve what Parliament has said, and we are working on this. In parallel, we are also working on other changes to the regulation to ensure that we have a more flexible labour market policy. Today, I cannot answer Christian Barenfeld on precise timetables, but that will happen shortly.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-17	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Labour. I understand that it may be difficult to say exactly on the day when it will be. It is positive if the government at this point listens to the Riksdag and does so as quickly as possible. Every day that we do not deliver more jobs and that young people are outside the labour market is a lost day for those people. The exact time frame is, of course, difficult for us here in Parliament to specify. But I assume and hope that the government will do so as quickly as possible. This is a priority. I am absolutely convinced that the effort will be of great help to our young unemployed and will provide greater support and help than much of what I understand takes up the time of the government. It concerns 90-day guarantees and other things where we can historically see that the delivery of new jobs and return to the labour market has been much less frequent. Once again, I would like to thank the Minister for Employment for his reply. I hope that we will soon be able to take decisions and see that we are implementing what is being called for here.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-21	Mr President, I would like to Mr Bali has asked me how the removal of job incentives in the establishment allowance leads to better incentives for work. Fredrik Schulte has asked me if I stand by the goal that all new arrivals should be in work after two years is realistic to reach and what measures I intend to take to facilitate new arrivals to get into work. More people than ever before are seeking asylum in Sweden. At present, intensive work is under way to address the major challenges of such rapid population growth. The government has recently presented a number of measures relating to the refugee situation. In addition, the Government has proposed in the 2016 Budget Bill a number of investments that will lead to faster entry into the labour market, including strengthened labour market-oriented efforts, validation and a substantial increase in the compensation to municipalities for refugee reception. The Government has also held talks with the social partners, the Employment Service and other relevant authorities on measures to create so-called "fast track" into the labour market for new arrivals in the establishment mission. In addition, the Government has initiated a review of the regulatory system within the establishment mandate in order to reduce unnecessary administrative burden and create the conditions for increased flexibility and efficiency in the assignment. A sustained reduction in unemployment and an increase in employment is one of the government's most important tasks. Work is the main way into Swedish society. The start-up time is too long. The Government's establishment policy aims to ensure that new arrivals get to work and benefit from the skills and experiences that they carry with them, thereby giving them the opportunity for self-sufficiency and security. The government stands by this policy. It is therefore a reasonable goal that new arrivals should normally be in work or education after two years in start-up efforts in Sweden. I am aware that this is a very big challenge, especially in view of how the refugee situation has changed. However, provided individuals have no obstacles to entering the labour market, it is difficult to have any other ambition. It is important that there are strong incentives to choose work during the start-up period, but at the same time it is important that the compensation system is perceived as legitimate. It is therefore the Government's assessment that it is not reasonable for full establishment benefit to be provided for the same period as the individual has earned income within the establishment plan. In addition, new arrivals still have the opportunity to work alongside their establishment plan without affecting the amount of the establishment allowance. Finally, I would like to add that the government is committed to the need for further efforts to create a sustainable system of reception and more effective action for rapid entry into the labour market.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-28	Mr President, I would like to My question to the Minister for Labour concerned precisely this job incentive, as it is called, in the establishment allowance. Thus, for a certain period of time when moving on to work, you can retain part of your start-up allowance so that the marginal effects of going to work are not so high. This has been pointed out by the OECD in the past when we had a system in which people did not have start-up benefits, but instead social security benefits. It pointed to the incredible destructiveness of having high marginal effects on the lowest incomes. The average family in income support then had 105 per cent marginal effects. My party has often focused on the upper part of the scale when it comes to marginal effects, when we have looked at military tax and so on. But it is equally important to look at the lower part of the scale, namely what the marginal effects are there. Tax on oil, for example, is called in Finland. What effects does this have on people? There is quite a lot of research that shows that lower marginal effects on lower incomes lead to more industriousness and greater efforts to get into work. I do not doubt the government's ambitions. But right now we are discussing the methodology, and there is nothing in the answer from the Minister where you go into it. At the moment, with the proposal put forward by the government, the marginal effects on new arrivals in terms of getting to work are increasing significantly. What we can have with us and which is important to look at is what is sometimes called the Simpson effect, namely that the composition of the group of new arrivals has changed over time. If we look at how many people get into work today compared to 20 years ago, for example, there are not huge differences. However, the composition of the new arrivals has changed. They have lower levels of education, it is a higher proportion that has never worked at all in their lives and so on. As a result, the reforms we have made have actually had a positive effect. On the other hand, the composition of new arrivals has changed. It is rather sad that you then just look at aggregate levels and then say: This does not work, so we remove it. It is also necessary to look at those groups that are reasonably close to the labour market and where there are incentives that play a major role, for example, in taking that part-time job or that hour job. Then it has to pay off. It's got to pay off taking that job. Not everyone goes from zero to full-time employment with a full-time salary, but some go from establishment plan, a few hours' work and so on. If you are then cut off from your establishment allowance when you are in the process of establishing yourself, negative lock-in effects are created. This is where the government unfortunately has no answer. I would very much like an answer from the Minister for Labour. What do you intend to do, simply, so that we do not have these lock-in effects and that the marginal effects do not stand up? I think we both have an interest that they are not too high.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-34	Mr President, I would like to Simple jobs – simple jobs are needed in order for all the people who have now come to Sweden to have a chance to enter the Swedish labour market. During the electoral movement, Mr President, the current government – the then Social Democratic opposition – promised that they would put forward a policy that would lead to Europe's lowest unemployment. The government has now turned back from that. The Minister for Labour said that all new arrivals would have jobs within two years. She has now backed from and loosened up to the fact that everyone should have education and employment within two years. The interesting thing is that the Social Democrats never talk about how to get more people into work. If they talk about what concrete solutions this is all about, it is only about labour market policies, subsidies and subsidies – this despite the fact that we have repeatedly in this House got the Minister for Labour to recognise that subsidies, subsidies and the implementation of labour market policy measures do not create new jobs. Instead, the Social Democrats put forward a budget that involves strong tax increases on jobs and entrepreneurship that only a quarter go to the heart of welfare. Otherwise, they are about substantially expanding benefit systems and subsidising construction companies and labour market policies that lead to less people getting jobs. My parents had a neighbor named Arne. He fled Czechoslovakia earlier. He was a doctoral student in physics, and when he came to Sweden he got a job as a caretaker at Linköping University after a few years. 30 years later, when he retired, he did so as chief professor — professor with the highest title in his section. That is exactly how integration must work. People who come here and who lack knowledge of the Swedish language and who have a long and tough uphill when it comes to entering Swedish society must have a chance to enter – a first-step-in job. This is especially true because many times nowadays it is not about people fleeing from countries where you have the same or similar types of education systems as Sweden. Many people lack training in a way that ordinary people and workers have in Sweden. Then we must have more simple jobs. There is only one way to get more simple jobs, for Sweden has the least number of simple jobs in the Western world. It is that it will be cheaper to buy these services. The problem is that if you do math and imagine that the entry salary, the lowest salary, to do a simple job is about 120 SEK and if you put on employers' contributions and occupational pension requirements, on holiday pay and on VAT you get up to a figure that lands about 250 SEK. This means that a regular regular wage earner must work between two and three hours in order to afford to hire a person to do simple jobs for one hour. This means that this type of job does not exist, and that is why Sweden has the smallest number of simple jobs in the whole Western world. What the government does then is to raise taxes, tighten up the RUT and increase the subsidies. It leads in the wrong direction.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-43	Mr President, I would like to I have to ask the interpellants a few questions, because I do not understand their reasoning. With all due respect for the economics of which Hanif Bali spoke, can you describe how it does not pay to work? From your reasoning, it became apparent that it does not pay to work, as I see it does. I must also ask Fredrik Schulte a question. Do you think that those who have these jobs that you describe, with a salary of $12 an hour, earn too much? That's really what you're saying. Otherwise, then, it is necessary to subsidise people in order to buy these services. We can buy services and goods all over the place. We can go to a hairdresser, a laundry or a shop, and we buy the goods or services we want. What Fredrik Schulte says is that people are not really prepared to pay this salary. Then the question is whether Fredrik Schulte thinks we should subsidise these people who are not prepared to pay wages. We have had such a system of very low wages. But that means they can't afford to ask for anything themselves. Is it the salary situation that is too high, Fredrik Schulte?
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-46	Mr President, I would like to I do not really understand the reasoning, Fredrik Schulte. The question was, of course, what ambition to have when it comes to the establishment of newcomers in the labour market and in education. Today it takes an unreasonable amount of time for people to establish themselves and get into employment and education. Then the question is whether you think it is good that it takes a long time, or whether you should change the ambition. I have a high ambition. I think it is normally reasonable that the two-year period of establishment that we have set aside should be enough to get to work or training, and that is what I work for. That is what the question was about, and I have answered. Mr Bali raises an important question, and I will take some time to answer it properly. It is important that there are incentives to move from other types of remuneration to work, and I would like to point out that there is no question of anyone being turned off from an establishment allowance. That's not gonna be the way it's gonna look. There will also be a great difference between the ratio of the subsistence payments where the money you earn is counted by the crown for the crown. In the proposal that is made, which is the same as today, although it applies after six months, it counts for 38.50 SEK per hour of what you earn when you work at full pay in the framework of the establishment assignment, i.e. you have been assisted by Arbetsförmedlingen and together worked out a plan. If you work outside the establishment plan, you keep everything; it does not affect. I believe that it is a strong incentive for the individual to go to work. Why is it also important for me to say that I do not think we should have double compensation? I have just gone to the social partners and asked them to help me get new arrivals quickly into jobs where we have the demand for labour! When we have the demand for labor and someone comes here and knows that job, it is reasonable that the person gets paid, I think. I will be able to make demands on the employer and say: If you get a good cook to work in your kitchen, it is reasonable that you pay contractual salary. If the person at the same time retains full start-up benefit, it becomes a bit skewed towards the other chefs and towards the employer who might think: Why should I pay full pay to someone who already has full compensation in another system? That's why I think this is important. If I want to get people into work that pays more quickly, it is also reasonable that there should be a calculation if this is done within the framework of the establishment plan. The statement is not 1:1; it is significantly smaller than what is normally earned by collective bargaining. On the other hand, if you take a vigour with hourly employment or work extra outside the framework of the establishment plan that you make together with Arbetsförmedlingen, this income is not affected.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-54	Mr President, I would like to I will begin by replying to Eva-Lena Jansson. You can listen to your Minister for Labour, because she just explained the marginal effects quite effectively. If you look, for example, at the supply support side, which I think we both agree that it is good if new arrivals do not end up in, we have marginal effects of almost 105 %. If you work five hours and withdraw 500 SEK, your social security allowance will be reduced by 500 SEK. So it doesn't matter to your household that you've been out working and working. That's how welfare benefits work, and that's what they call marginal effects. With the proposal put forward by the government, some explain that it is a bit unfair for a certain chef to withdraw more money than the others for a short period of time because that chef has a replacement left. I would like to recall that the Social Democrats have the same proposal on the basis of income support, namely that they have a job stimulus model there too. In fact, it was you who suggested from the very beginning that there should be a job stimulus. There it will be the same situation, namely to go from long-term support and start working as a chef, for example, he or she gets to keep 30% of the support. So the same situation will arise, since that chef makes more money than the others. We know the same for different tax systems. Now the government has gone after it, but there have been periods when working older people received lower taxes than younger ones. A 67-year-old who worked at a company got more money after tax than, for example, a 50-year-old got. There were not too big conflicts, I hope, in Swedish workplaces of it. So I don't think you should exaggerate this. On the other hand, it is good that the government has thought about the marginal effects, namely that it has a write-off, and then it will have a marginal effect of about 70%. But if marginal effects are evil, is it not as low marginal effects as possible that are desirable? It's not much more expensive. There is some myth out there that what costs new arrivals are their levels of contributions. We who look through a budget know that what costs new arrivals is that they are not in work, because then they are not involved in funding tax revenue for welfare, and it is welfare that is the costly and not the benefit system itself. That's why this is gonna be a pretty easy choice. If we are to ensure that someone is going to work, a lower level of benefit is preferable to the person not being in work at all. If the government has embarked on the path of incentives and marginal effects play a role, the reasonable question is why it does not want the marginal effects to be even lower. With your proposal, the marginal effects increase. You feel that you have struck a good balance in how high they should be, but you cannot deny that they are increasing. Is it not better to have lower marginal effects rather than higher ones if they are now a problem?
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-62	Mr President, I would like to There is probably no one who thinks it is distressing, tragic and a major societal challenge that it takes on average eight years for newly arrived refugees to get a residence permit to enter the Swedish labour market. Getting the large number of people who have come here to Sweden and got asylum into work is one of the major challenges that Sweden is facing in the coming years or perhaps even decades. The Minister for Labour thinks it is reasonable to get to work after two years of being here. I don't think there's anyone who doesn't. I think most people think it would be good if you could get to work right away. The problem is that it is not realistic. Today it takes eight years on average. Whether I think our goal should be a year or two and the Minister for Employment has his goal, one must look at what is realistic. Today it is not realistic – and now we come to the core – because there are no easy jobs in Sweden. There is no first step in for the people who come here and do not know the language and who in different ways have a tougher challenge when it comes to entering the Swedish labour market than what I and the Minister for Labour have. The reason why there are no simple jobs in Sweden is that it is too expensive. Buying the simple services costs too much. Eva-Lena Jansson tried to be funny and ask me if I think that those who do the simple jobs earn too little. No, that wasn't my point. My point was that the taxes are too high. If the minimum salary is SEK 120 per hour, the customer who hires the person who performs the simple job must pay in round rolls SEK 270. This means that a normal wage earner who earns $25,000 a month must work two to three hours to afford an hour's employment by a person performing simple services. So wages are not too high. It's the taxes that are too high. They make it too expensive in the end. Many simple jobs were created with the RUT reform. For it suddenly became reasonable and possible for ordinary people to hire cleaning help to their home. In the past, only high-income people could afford it or people who bought the services black. What does the government do to get more people to work? The main focus of government policy is to raise taxes, tighten and make it difficult for RUT and ROT companies and increase contributions. That's exactly the wrong direction. We need to go the other way. We need to expand the RUT so that more services are covered. We need you to push down marginal taxes so that it pays better to work, so that it becomes cheaper to buy the simple services and so that those services arise on the Swedish labour market. We do not need to do as the government that raises subsidies so that people are locked up in dependency on subsidies. It therefore does not matter what the Minister for Labour says, if she says one year, two years or three years. As long as there are no jobs, it doesn't matter what goal we set.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-70	Mr President, I would like to It is a bit sad that Fredrik Schulte has a poverty view of people and work. It is clear that people who come to Sweden should be able to work as soon as possible. This can be done if you receive adequate training and if you have the opportunity to enter the labour market. When it comes to the fact that there would be too few simple jobs, it is fascinating that the only simple job Fredrik Schulte can mention is the cleaning of another person's home. I'm not sure I would define it as a simple job to go home to another person with the expectations that are there. I have worked as a cleaner in a restaurant and know that it takes quite a lot of effort. I've also been there when Samhall's been cleaning up businesses. I know that cleaning requires both education and skills. I think many people are competent, but it's wrong to talk about cleaning as just a simple job. Many different types of work are needed. And many types of action are needed to enable people to enter the labour market. Discrimination in the labour market must be removed. We must also invest in education. Then you cannot cut by 3 billion on educational efforts, as the Moderates do. You have to see every unique person. I do not believe in the idea that every person who comes here, who may have a high level of education, must first have a simple job and then get a job you are trained for. It would be much better if you could get a job that you are already qualified for. It is a proof of poverty from the Moderates to constantly talk about the need to subsidise certain types of services. They do not see that you can invest in people by giving them the right education.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-76	Mr President, I would like to When you listen to Fredrik Schulte you realize that he belongs to the old Moderates. He is a true reactionary, a person who is afraid of progress and modernity. Fredrik Schulte repeats, like a parrot, the words simple jobs. We'll have to go back to the record later and count how many times he said that. It doesn't feel like Fredrik Schulte is thinking of a forward-looking society where maybe half of the citizens go to university, where Swedish industry develops in cutting-edge technology, where the Swedish pharmaceutical industry makes its triumph over the world and so on. This is not really what the society Fredrik Schulte thinks. When you hear Fredrik Schulte talking, you think Fredrik Schulte was walking on his property with a shotgun, a knitted vest and a small pheasant. And it should be full of people doing simple jobs around Fredrik Schulte. There are such countries in this world. The only problem is that they don't perform. Those countries do not have a bnp that can be compared to Sweden. The countries that Fredrik Schulte dreams of back to, which have a social development and a prosperity similar to what our country had a hundred years ago, cannot compare with Sweden when it comes to the labour market. The countries that are Fredrik Schultes's social vision do not have our level of employment, and they do not have our participation in the labour force. When it comes to simple jobs, Fredrik Schulte thinks it is a concern that we have raised the levels of education in the country, from elementary school to secondary school. Fredrik Schulte feels threatened in such a world. He wants us to build our labour market by backing into the future. We should not take advantage of all the work that generations of Swedes have done over the last 100 years to build this society, to raise the level of education and to increase Swedish productivity. What Fredrik Schultes's government left behind after eight years was falling productivity and a worse school. In the direction that Fredrik Schultes's policy leads, it is clear that there will be simple jobs. Mr President, I would like to Fredrik Schulte sometimes tries to give the impression that he understands economics. If you want a society where most people have simple jobs – according to the definition that no one wants the services more than possibly to a spit styve – and if we are at the same time to reduce taxes to a very low level, I would like Fredrik Schulte to point to such a society in the world that performs better than Sweden when it comes to welfare and labour participation – a functioning society at all. In the societies that Fredrik Schulte points to, there are huge pay differences, if you go that way. People work at one job, two jobs or three jobs but still cannot support a family. In such societies there are poor people who are starving even though they are working. Is that what Fredrik Schulte wants? You have to think about it. But I don't think Fredrik Schulte is thinking. He is a demagogue, a propagandist, who does not really understand how society and the economy work. Fredrik Schulte is a danger to Sweden to the extent that his policy would be implemented. Fortunately, we're not going to do that. When I get the record, I'll count how many times Fredrik Schulte said simple jobs.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-87	Mr President, I would like to After this revolutionary intervention by Patrik Björck, the question is whether we should not count in the minutes how many times in each post Patrik Björck says the Moderates. The times Patrik Björck says what he intends to do for the jobs to become more is more quickly counted. However, in response to previous interventions, it would be interesting to ask the Minister – it is with her that we have the interpellation debate – about just simple jobs. The interpretations from my colleagues Fredrik Schulte and Hanif Bali are about the possibility of reducing marginal effects for those who are new in Sweden. The challenge is not that those who come to Sweden get jobs too fast. The problem is they get jobs way too late. And when they get jobs, there is far too little profitability in moving from grants to work. That is precisely why we want the marginal effects to be reduced. In addition, we then have a debate on whether or not simple jobs are needed. Judging by Patrik Björck's post, there is no need for such jobs. It is even not good and not worthy of countries like Sweden. My simple question to the Minister for Labour is: Does Minister Björck share the view that simple jobs are not something we should have in Sweden?
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-92	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates, and in this case Fredrik Schulte, have an unfortunate obsession with tax cuts. There is not a single problem that cannot be solved by new tax cuts. Fredrik Schulte says that it takes tragic time for people to come to work when they are newly arrived in Sweden, and then the answer is tax reductions. I should like to add that there are tragically few in the start-up assignment who take part in education, less than 1%, despite the fact that a significant proportion has a very low level of education. I think that's tragic, too. Perhaps, according to Fredrik Schulte, it should also be resolved with new tax reductions. The problem is that we have tried this medicine, and it has run away billions who had made use of it in school, education and investment for Swedish competitiveness instead of running away for tax cuts. Hanif Bali, in your first post you said one thing that is not quite true. If we look back ten years at how the composition of those who have been present in the start-up assignment, we clearly see that the proportion of the low-skilled has almost halved. The proportion of highly educated people has risen sharply. The composition of the establishment assignment has moved towards a higher proportion of highly educated and a lower proportion of low-skilled. The fact remains that some of the low-skilled have very low levels of education, which is a major challenge for the Swedish labour market. That is why we need to invest in education. So it is with the composition. To Christian Holm Barenfeld when it comes to the so-called simple jobs: If we look at who today in Sweden has the jobs that do not require upper secondary school skills and on a development over time we can see that those individuals who do not have upper secondary skills have less and less jobs that do not require upper secondary school skills. Individuals with upper secondary skills or even higher education increasingly have jobs with relatively low qualification requirements. Now I do not know for sure if these people are born abroad, but I would guess that a significant proportion of them are. I therefore take the view that we have a significant problem with labour market mismatches. People who have skills and come from other countries do not get a job in the professions in which they are trained or experienced. It is one of the important changes that we are now implementing in the establishment policy, including through the so-called fast track. Last Friday, I and the Minister for Health presented a fast track for healthcare professions that require identification and that take very long for individuals to reach. We attended a trade fair organised by Arbetsförmedlingen with 350 jobseekers, born abroad, trained in health care with a licence together with employers in health care who are looking for staff. This is a major shortage area where we really need to use the skills properly. I talked to Arbetsförmedlingen in Falköping who worked to get some 20 new teachers in school. There is a great shortage of teachers that the vast majority of municipalities have. The teachers come from Afghanistan, Syria, Eri third and Somalia. They are being equipped now to be able to come out and work as teachers in the Swedish school. We have significant things to do when it comes to matching the right person to the right job. To Hanif Bali: The balance of the deduction for the establishment allowance is exactly the same as that made by the old government, namely SEK 38.50 per hour. That is what applies today. The difference is that today there is no deduction during the first six months of the start-up assignment. I believe that such a limit was set for thinking that you would work to a lesser extent, perhaps for hiking hours. I imagine that a substantial proportion will come out in more or less full-time work during their period of establishment.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-101	Mr President, I would like to The Minister is quite right in the analysis that there is a strong displacement on the Swedish labour market. Higher education graduates work in upper secondary schools, and those with upper secondary education work in unskilled professions. You can define simple jobs and not simple jobs, but the fact is that there is quite a lot of preparedness in the Swedish economy for people who only have primary education, for example. The problem is that everyone with upper secondary education has taken those jobs. Then you have to start at the top with the match. Here there will be problems with the higher education initiatives that the government does and that the previous government has also done, namely that it gives full autonomy to the higher education institutions to educate how they want to. It will be much cheaper to pull an extra chair into a lecture hall, especially in the training programmes for which there is a low demand in the labour market. This contributes to strong displacement effects. The group of students in the humanities is quite broad. About 40 percent of them take jobs that only require upper secondary education. It's terrible. And there are large volumes of people with displacement that we're talking about. I look forward to hearing the proposals made by the government in this area. On the other hand, one must admit that somewhere one can equip people, but one cannot equip people in view of the development over 100 years that we have had in Sweden. We've had quite a head start in this country. It is very difficult to get such large groups of people to lift themselves together. You can do it at individual level, but at some point you have to lower the bar.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-105	Mr President, I would like to I have a proposal for a new slogan for Patrik Björck's election campaign in the next election, and that is: Not everyone is going – to travel the slogan that the sossians had in the 2006 election. If you haven't attended primary school, if you don't know the Swedish language, if you don't know anyone in Sweden – contacts mean a lot to get a job – then it's very hard to get into the Swedish labour market. It takes an average of eight years for a newly arrived refugee to enter the Swedish labour market. I visited a transit home relatively recently and talked to a man who was equal to me, 34 years old. He had fled the war in Syria. He had gone to primary school for five years. If he is going to reach the level of education that I have, he will enter the Swedish labour market when he is almost 50 years old. One must somehow realize that there is no magic with one's knees. We must realise that there are people who do not fit in with the future that Patrik Björck does. The future of Swedish prosperity and for Sweden is education, research, innovation and startups. I think it would be fun if Patrik Björck came along and met some start-up entrepreneurs so we will hear what they have to say about the politics that the sossians conduct with increased taxes on innovations. The point is, they're the future. But we also need to have a labour market where everyone can have a place, where those who have not had the opportunity to study at university also get a chance on the Swedish labour market. We must combine the best of two worlds, people who have tough conditions and people who have good conditions.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-110	Mr President, I would like to Sven k labour movement, Fredrik Schulte, has always supported modernity and development. It has been the hallmark, strength and success of the Swedish labour movement, unlike old fashioned ones, such as Fredrik Schulte, who has been afraid of development. That's why your ideology is conservatism. You are reactionary, conservative, and you always think it goes too far and too fast. We Social Democrats want to go on the future wagon. We want to get better and stronger and develop this country even more. That's what we've done. That's why we're so successful. That's why this country is one of the best countries in the world to live in. That's why so many people want to come here. That's because we've run this country and not been afraid of development. Mr President, I would like to Play with the idea that Fredrik Schulte had got his politics through once and that we had had about as many simple jobs as 100 years ago! Play with the thought of what our societies would have looked like then! Play with the idea how many start-up companies would have been in this country then! There are countries that have followed Fredrik Schultes's example and that stand at the level that they have lots of simple jobs, an abundance of simple jobs, and hardly any taxes. I could list a number of such countries for Fredrik Schulte. It is only that these countries do not stand a chance when comparing welfare, development, productivity and labour force participation. Sweden beats them with horse lengths. This is the problem. Fre Drik Schulte talks but doesn't understand what he's saying.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-115	Mr President, I would like to Debates always develop in different ways. Here we had a post that can be described as back to the future. In fact, however, there is nothing to prevent us from having certain jobs that require somewhat less training, which have lower thresholds in and are considered to be somewhat simpler. There is also nothing to say that a person who takes a simple job should continue to have a simple job throughout his career and end it with a simple job. Simpler jobs are often a step into the labour market. Then it is also the case that even we as individuals have different wills, conditions and backgrounds. It is therefore important that there be a wide range of jobs. We have discussed this in many areas. For example, we have discussed the employment phase, where we know there are different steps. We may find it good or bad. But now we have a situation where many people go to Sweden to build their future in our country because they can't do it in their home country for their own freedom and life. At the same time, the government is saying that the employment phase should be phased out without basically having an alternative. No matter how much we want everyone to train and become doctors, civil engineers and other things, not everyone will want to. Not everyone has the ability and the ability to do so, especially for a shorter period. My questions will be, sum total room: How do you do to create jobs for these people? And above all, to return to the interpellation, why does it not want to contribute more quickly to reducing the marginal effects on those who go from having a job to having a job?
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-120	Mr President, I would like to If you're going to do the match better, you might have to start at the top,' said Hanif Bali. There's something in it. I think you have to look wide. But what is important about labour market policy is that we not only focus on those who have the most difficulty in getting jobs, but also help those who are a little closer to the labour market, because they are often the ones the employer asks for in the first place. Several employers need to get the right skills in a shorter time. It is important for the labour market to function well but also for people with higher education or valuable experience not to occupy jobs that someone else with less experience or a lower level of education could take. That is why we are doing a reorientation of labour market policies and of the start-up mission so that we are now making more tailor-made solutions that are different for different groups. Those who have training and experience that is required in the Swedish labour market must of course work in the professions where they can. Those who have good conditions, perhaps an academic education, without being able to work in their particular profession should be helped to enter another profession at a level that corresponds to the education they have, even if it is not exactly the same. Therefore, we are also investing heavily in supplementary education, which means that you may be able to turn a little into another profession where you can benefit from your previous skills, even if it is not exactly the same profession. Mr President, I would like to The education and training system should certainly be given greater dimension in terms of labour market needs and demand. It's very funny that Hanif Bali is also in on it now.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-123	Mr President, I would like to Katarina Brännström has asked me if I can say when a more extensive investigation of Arbetsförmedlingen will come and what direction I think an investigation of Arbetsförmedlingen should have. As I have previously answered a written question from Katarina Brännström and an interpellation from Jenny Petersson, M, the government shares the view that Arbetsförmedlingen needs to be developed in order to better contribute to a more well-functioning labour market. The government has started work on reforming labour market policies and changing the governance of the Employment Service. The agency has started extensive renewal work, and the Government has commissioned Statskontoret to analyse and submit proposals regarding the development of the agency's internal governance, management and follow-up. The Government has described in the budget bill the direction of an investigation. With a better interaction between all the actors working together with Arbetsförmedlingen for a well-functioning labour market, society's combined resources can be better exploited. The way in which the government's commitment and the Public Employment Service's mandate should be designed to meet the challenges of the future labour market therefore needs to be further analysed. The Government will decide on guidelines for the investigation after preparation in the Government Office.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-127	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Employment for his answer. The background is that the investigation about Arbetsförmedlingen that the alliance government appointed did not work more than six months before the new government with Ylva Johansson interrupted it and threw it in the trash. Since then, the Riksdag has made announcements to the Government on two occasions, in February and June, to set up a new investigation or to continue the investigation. Yet nothing has yet happened. So there are two announcements, and the Minister has promised new directives on a number of occasions. The latest was that they would come in the fall. However, nothing has yet come. It's almost ten months since the first announcement. In reply to me, the Minister for Labour says that it wants better interaction between the actors, that it wants to see how resources can be better used and that it needs to analyse how the state's commitments should be shaped. This is very interesting, because precisely this was in the directives for the investigation that Ylva Johansson concluded and threw in the trash. I can give you some examples of what the directives said. Missions and activities in relation to other relevant actors would be investigated. It would analyse whether the Public Employment Service is using its resources in an efficient and cost-effective way, how contacts and cooperation with employers can be improved and how the Public Employment Service uses complementary actors. It would investigate the pros and cons of Arbetsförmedlingen's organisation, how governance can be developed, how monitoring and evaluation can be developed and improved and so on. It's nothing strange. There were very good things that could have given good answers. There was also a point about opening up to competition. This is not what the Red-Green Government wants, so this point could have been deleted. But otherwise we could have a complete investigation to take a position on January 15, next month. However, there is still nothing. The reality is that there is a real urgency for an effective employment service to be put in place. The unemployment rate of foreign born children is over 21 per cent. It is a figure that should worry every government and not least a party that calls itself a workers' party. I know that the Minister for Labour already last summer said that this would be investigated and come. However, the assignment that was then given to Statskontoret did not concern the investigation referred to in the announcements. It is more about internal management and governance. We have not seen a single trace, and we have not heard that there would be a date. It didn't come to me this time either. As with many other promises about, for example, trainee jobs, jobs for newcomers and the EU's lowest unemployment, there are many words but very few results from the Ministry of Labour. The Minister for Labour said last Friday that she has liberalised the Employment Service. Then you might wonder how it's done. Does the Minister himself go in and make his changes in Arbetsförmedlingen's way of working and skip the investigation itself, or what is happening? We see the need for an effective employment service. We saw the need a long time ago – that is why the investigation was set up. It goes without saying that it should always be questioned and analysed whether a budget of EUR 74 billion is being used properly by the Public Employment Service. My question remains: When will the government decide on a new investigation, and when will the government follow the Riksdag's decision?
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-139	Mr President, I would like to After eight years of a failed moderate labour market policy, the Moderates came to the conclusion that they actually wanted to investigate how the Employment Service worked. One can only be amazed that they had not seen it before and that they do not understand that it is their policy that has failed. It was a failure with job coaches and establishment slots. I don't think I've ever seen a report from the Swedish National Audit Office that has been so brutal to the previous government's policy as when it comes to establishment slots. I wonder if Katarina Brännström has drawn any conclusions from that. Katarina Brännström writes in her interpellation, Mr Ta lman, that Arbetsförmedlingen enjoys low trust today. Does Katarina Brännström draw any conclusions from the previous government's labour market policy, that it is linked to the low confidence in the Employment Service? If she doesn't, I wonder what she's thinking. I go to work almost every week. You could say they finally see the light in the tunnel. After eight years with a moderate Minister for Labour, they have finally got a Minister for Labour who actually makes sure that they can do what is on the door, that is, convey jobs, convey people to study, meet employers and not be a social office light. I think that's good. Can Katarina Brännström provide information on how she has perceived the low level of confidence in Arbetsförmedlingen after eight years with a moderate Minister for Labour and the fiasco described through the Swedish National Audit Office's reports?
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-144	Mr President, I would like to Katarina Brännström asks what happens when I liberalise employment services and labour market policies. I can tell you. We change the regulation letter to Arbetsförmedlingen. We have removed two thirds of the regulatory letter. A letter of regulation regulates, and if you remove some of it, you liberalise. I think that's an interpretation you can make. We are also amending regulations. For example, we are now looking at amending regulations with regard to age limits for start-up-own subsidies – it was a debate we had here earlier. We have previously amended regulations to ensure that young people can get help from the first day. They shouldn't have to wait 90 days. We are also talking about other time limits that prevent us from making the right efforts. We are also introducing new opportunities to use resources more flexibly according to needs. This is what happens when employment services and labour market policies are liberalised. I would like to continue with what Eva-Lena Jansson mentioned. During the time when the Moderates ruled over Arbetsförmedlingen and labour market policy, we had a steady decline in confidence in Arbetsförmedlingen. There was a steady deterioration in the functioning of the labour market, and there was an increase in unemployment. After eight years of such a policy, it was determined that an investigation would be set up. I share the view that we need to investigate the Public Employment Service, but that is not a reason for not already reforming labour market policy and the Public Employment Service. We are working on the directives for a new investigation. I had the ambition that we could get there a little faster. However, autumn has meant a lot of other work. The Government Office has entered a crisis organization, which has affected and partly delayed some other work within the government. However, the preparatory work is in full swing with regard to the directives. Mr President, I would like to I would like to say something about the fact that I think we can teach some of the other countries. Of course, this is going to be an investigation, but I am also travelling myself and studying what I think we can learn from other countries. Examples of this include the task of the employment services in Germany to actively work with guidance and advice for anyone who wants help to orient themselves: Which training courses and which sectors are growing? Where should I turn to in the labour market? I was in Austria. It says that it is between six and twelve months, for the unemployed, that the efforts should be deployed. Later, the impact of labour market policies will be much lower. I think that is an interesting lesson from Austria, which we should perhaps consider. One third of the unemployed also receive training there. This is a considerably larger part than in Sweden. Could there be a link between this and the fact that Austria has significantly lower unemployment than Sweden? That is also a question you should ask yourself. I was recently in England. Among other things, I looked at how to work with complementary actors. Throughout the UK, there were 40 supplementary actors for the employment services. It can be compared with the fact that when the Moderates ruled the Ministry of Labour, we had 1 000 supplementary actors for the Public Employment Service in our country, with a significantly smaller labour market than the UK. I think there are some lessons to be learned from this. It is possible to cooperate better if you have fewer players with whom you can work deeper. The employment services I visited generally had two complementary actors to work with. Then it is possible to sit around the same table and make common solutions. I will soon travel to Australia and look at their systems. I think that an investigation, Mr President, should have as an essential part to look around in other countries where it works relatively well with the employment services and see what we have to learn from them.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-157	Mr President, I would like to This is about the investigation of Arbetsförmedlingen. When I was looking for some information in this debate, I found a statement from January. The Minister for Labour said: It is not the time to bury the problems of the Employment Service in a state inquiry. It's time to rule. That's what Ylva Johansson said in defense of the end of the investigation. It is no wonder that we have doubts about whether there will be any new investigation at all, with what has been said earlier in the year. Now there have been announcements, and a government should appropriately comply with the Riksdag. Otherwise, it would be interesting to know if confidence in Arbetsförmedlingen has suddenly increased and if everyone now thinks everything is fine. That is not the case. There's no sign of it. How many more jobs have been announced this year than last year? I don't think there's any more jobs. What did it look like before 2007, before this government came into existence? It was a deep crisis. Trust was very low. You have had eight years to come up with what you want with your policy. But it does not seem that you have done or thought anything during that time. It is now that the Minister for Labour is making trips around the world to see what it looks like elsewhere. It is good that the trips are made. I think it's great to look at other countries that do it better than us. We have never risen in terms of the organisation, working methods and results of Arbetsförmedlingen. We weren't happy either. One can well say that it is not an easy colossus to change, either in terms of activity or results. But I do not think it should be said that it is simsalabim and a new minister who suddenly makes everything work amazingly well. I think it is a good thing to change the letter of regulation. It is a government's opportunity to change, and the results must come. But a very good investigation could have been on the table with the government on 15 January, in a month's time. It could have given the Minister many answers to: How are things with Arbetsförmedlingen in Sweden? We still know nothing about that. Everyone knows that the result is low and that confidence is low. And the minister travels around the world looking for good examples. The work done by the government and the result achieved this year do not impress. In fact, it is almost nothing in the Ministry of Labour's field. We will continue to ask questions if there are no results. That's what the minister's gonna have to do. As the answer says, I have not asked a written question in this area before. This is the first time I have discussed this specifically with the Minister. But I will follow what the Minister is doing in this area. I hope and believe that we will get a good employment service, because it is really needed at a time when, for example, the unemployment rate for foreign born is over 21% and we have a lot of new arrivals. This is a huge challenge facing both the government and the Employment Service. I am very concerned that we are not getting a little more results that show that this is being taken seriously.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-166	Mr President, I would like to Nor do I think it is enough to change the Minister for Labour. It is important to have the right Minister for Labour and the right labour market policy, otherwise it makes no difference. Katarina Brännström shows in her interpellation and in her interventions what faith or rather distrust the Moderates have had in relation to Arbetsförmedlingen, a government authority. There has been no confidence in the staff, which of course has an effect. Former Director General Arbetsförmedlingen was governed at a detailed level in the past. Now, describing the work mediators, they get to do what they are appointed to do. So politics can make a difference. If you have a belief in government staff and their skills and give them the opportunity to do a good job, it also makes a difference for their ability to do a good job. If you tell them that they actually get to talk to entrepreneurs and meet people who have work to be a link in the match that the Minister for Labour has talked about, it makes a difference. It is a pity that Katarina Brännström does not have greater faith in people and that they can do their work.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-170	Mr President, I would like to Investigation, investigation, investigation– then we will count on how many times Katarina Brännström wanted to investigate Arbetsförmedlingen during this interpellation debate. The Moderate obsession with an inquiry into the Employment Service is a little revealing. The Minister for Labour and Eva-Lena Jansson have previously mentioned how Katarina Brännström's moderate-led government for eight years completely failed with labour market policy and, above all, drove Arbetsförmedlingen to the bottom through a very poor political governance. Katarina Brännström thinks we have had eight years to come up with something. What is revealing in this debate is that the Moderates and Katarina Brännström have nothing to offer. Instead, we are constantly repeating this with an inquiry into the Public Employment Service. This is not done in one or two interpellations, but the same interpellation is repeated. The Minister for Labour is patiently responding. Time and again she lists everything that is being done, all the news, all the improvements that are being made and all the initiatives that are being taken. The Minister for Labour has also explained to Katarina Brännström in an educational way how a government governs. But then Katarina Brännström does not listen, and it is clear that then there will be a very strange debate. Then Katarina Brännström goes back up and says that there was no investigation. If Katarina Brännström is constantly getting factual answers in a debate, one might imagine that she analyses the Minister for Labour's answer and says: No, I don't like that change, because we Moderates would have liked to have done this instead. She could then have gone in and discussed the substance of politics constructively. Then there could have been something to listen to, and then we could have brought politics forward. Katarina Brännström could then possibly, based on her moderate values and her moderate view of society, have put forward other proposals and put them against the minister's proposal. Then we could have had an interesting political debate. So here we have a minister who listens constructively and objectively, explains and tells us how we Social Democrats view this and what steps we are taking to solve unemployment, which is a major social problem and the commitment we have taken to the electorate to deal with. Then it'll come back again. It does not matter what the Minister for Labour says if she cannot immediately add directives to an investigation that she, Mr President, promises to come to. Katarina Brännström has already received what she wants and could have a substantive debate here. But she refuses, and it's symptomatic. The previous policy failed, and today there is no alternative to government policy. It is important information to the voters and to those who listen to this debate: now we have a government that tackles things, that analyses the problems and that directs its policy towards the real problems and makes a difference. So we have an opposition, personified by Katarina Brännström, who has no substance to make when it comes to proposals on how to improve labour market policy or how to make Arbetsförmedlingen more effective. It's very symptomatic, it's very clear and it's very revealing.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-183	Mr President, I would like to As my colleague Katarina Brännström said and as Minister for Employment Ylva Johansson has said in his reply, I have asked this question before. I definitely think that we should stick to the substantive issues, and it is actually the case that in two announcements the Riksdag has made a statement that Ylva Johansson and the government should resume or set up an investigation for the review of the Employment Service. I therefore think that Katarina Brännström's question here today is highly relevant. It sounds a little bit at Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson's colleagues in the Social Democrats that one should not respect the Riksdag. Should we have a discussion on issues of substance, I definitely think it is worrying if we are not to respect the majority of the Swedish parliament, as the Minister for Labour's colleagues advocate. If we are to keep to the point, Patrik Björck from the Social Democrats, there has not been a major review of the Employment Service in the last 20 years, and therefore it is absolutely time to look at just how management and internal work work. It's an authority. The left-wing government can make proposals and reforms on labour market policy, but how the agency is managed and can be streamlined should be reviewed. In other words, the investigation we are talking about was closed and instead gave a commission to Statskontoret to analyse and submit proposals on the internal governance and management of the Swedish Public Employment Service. It is a little too narrow, and just as the announcement says and here, too, in the answer, there will be a review. As a matter of fact, Patrik Björck, it has had over a year and a half to get the directives on the table, but I welcome, as I said, the coming of directives. It's taken time. The Minister for Labour gave notice here this summer that it would come in the autumn, but it has now been postponed until spring. I hope that I will not have to stand in this Chamber in the Swedish Parliament next autumn and ask what is happening with the review of the Swedish Public Employment Service.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-189	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that the Moderates do not really want to know the politics that you pursued and that failed. Instead, the investigation that was previously set up is being maintained. I would like to say this to Katarina Brännström : No, a new minister is not simsalabim. But I'm implementing a new policy, and it makes a difference. I'm afraid a new investigation is not simsalabim either. M an investigation can analyse future issues and make proposals if it is designed properly without putting a wet blanket on the necessary change work that is going on, and such an investigation I will set up.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-191	Mr President, I would like to Employment services have not worked for decades; that is completely correct. It has not been an effective activity. It is a huge colossus that is very difficult to control, and it will take a very long time to get a good employment service. I welcome all proposals in this area. The Minister for Labour says it is a new policy. Then I wonder: Where is it? We in Parliament have not seen any new policy. There are no proposals from the Ministry of Labour for any new labour market policy, employment policy or anything that stimulates new jobs. Trainee jobs were the big number in the election campaign. They're completely gone, and there doesn't seem to be anything of them. It doesn't matter what the Minister for Labour says, it's about what you do, to travel Patrik Björck. It is precisely the results that we have to start from. We weren't happy. In 2008, there was widespread unemployment due to the deep crisis in the economy worldwide. Then it became clear that Arbetsförmedlingen did not work properly. Reality still requires more jobs to be delivered. Matching needs to be improved. A lot of things have to be done to make the match work better. I look forward to receiving a proposal from the government shortly. In order to possibly shorten that period, I shall submit the summary of the committee directives to the Minister. There are many suggestions to follow in the old investigation. I would like to thank the Minister for the debate and for the answer. I realise that it is not an investigation that will solve the problems, but it needs infinitely more. I wish the Minister good luck with his work. It's not an easy job.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-197	Mr President, I would like to Jenny Petersson has obviously listened to the Minister for Labour's reply. Jenny Petersson also thanks the Minister for Employment for the answer. Perhaps Katarina Brännström should also have listened to the Minister for Labour's reply. Perhaps this debate would not have been so long. We can always hope that we will not have to have the debate again, that in future we can debate labour market policy on the basis of substance and that Katarina Brännström can make suggestions on what she wants to do or change and see what creative ideas she has to reduce unemployment. We look forward to a debate on substance and political content of ideas. It would be far more exciting than simply making demands for an investigation that the Minister for Labour has already replied that she should carry out.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-198	Mr President, I would like to I will not prolong the debate, but I would like to point out to those of you who have followed the debate that the interpellation is about a review of the Employment Service. There have been two announcements from the Swedish Parliament to resume or set up a review of the Swedish Public Employment Service. The Alliance government set up an investigation that the government chose to close. I would also like to thank the Minister for Employment for his reply today. I would remind you that Ylva Johansson is Minister of Labour. Katarina Brännström and I are in opposition. We will continue to ask for results in this area. You are in your second year of government, and soon it will be half-time. It is up to you to make things happen, and we will continue to push forward on the issues.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-200	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the debate. I said yes to the question from the outset. We will set up an investigation, and we are working on the directives. Pending the study, it is to be welcomed that unemployment is falling sharply, especially youth unemployment, which has fallen by more than 3 percentage points over the past year. Large investments are being made in employer contact, and Arbetsförmedlingen works better and better.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-201	Mr President, I would like to Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin has asked me whether it is my view that it takes very serious reasons to move 200 – 300 academic jobs from a place that has benefited from them as part of the principle of government relocation. Furthermore, Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin has asked me if I am prepared to make it clear in future regulatory letters that it is ultimately the government that owns the question of whether or not the jobs created by Dalarna University in Borlänge will be moved. Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin has also asked me if I share the view that the activities of Dalarna University today in Borlänge are important for the whole of Dalarna and that it would be unfortunate for the whole region if it were closed down. Initially, I would like to emphasise that there are universities and colleges today in many places throughout Sweden, and that is very positive. It increases the opportunities for further reading regardless of background, strengthens regional development and enables large sections of society to have close contact with research and recruit highly qualified staff. All universities are of national interest to the government – whether they are universities or colleges, new or old. The government is now increasing the number of places of education throughout the country and is strengthening the quality of higher education. Dalarna University has received funding for new training places, about SEK 4 million in 2015. The investment is expected to gradually increase to SEK 18 million in 2018. The Government has also calculated in the budget proposal a distribution of research funding that specifically strengthens research at the four new universities and higher education institutions, including Dalarna University. A university has a great degree of independence, including in terms of its own strategic planning, which the government generally also cares about. How a university chooses to carry out research and education, including campus location and premises, is therefore largely within the university's own mandate. This also applies to the organisation of education on campus and distance. Dalarna University Board has now decided to investigate a possible move of campus in Borlänge. It is within the university's mandate to carry out such an investigation, and it is important to emphasise that it is precisely an investigation. Any decision on changes in location will not be taken until November 2016 at the earliest. It is also clear from the Board's decision that the investigation should comprehensively highlight the conditions and consequences of co-location to Falun, including in terms of regional effects. Finally, I would like to stress once again that education and research throughout the country are important for the government and that we will be closely monitoring developments.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-206	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Higher Education, for your answer. The Swedish tax collective is, as you know, spread across the country. There has been a great deal of agreement on the political principle that we should distribute the jobs created by the state through public authorities and various types of activities. The decision to relocate and start a university in Dalarna, Borlänge and Falun was originally a government decision, and the Riksdag then decided on the basis of a bill. Then a question of principle arises. To what extent should an authority then be able to choose to review the decision that was fundamentally political? I do not question at all the right of higher education institutions and universities to direct their own academic offering, to have control, as it were, of academic freedom. But if there is a government decision basically to locate a business that employs up to 300 people in a city with a great need for academic jobs in order to have a good dynamic in the labour market, which also has a large infrastructure and a collaboration with the heavy industry in the area, does the Minister of Higher Education really believe that it can be up to the authorities, in this case the university, to review the decision taken by the Swedish Parliament? I believe that if it is a political decision from the outset to relocate an activity, it must also be a political decision to close the operation. We can see in a wide range of areas how authorities rationalize themselves and thereby go against the political motivations that existed from the beginning of delocalising them. The Minister for Higher Education says that it must be up to the university itself to own the question of where to place your campus activities. Would the Minister for Higher Education theoretically be of the same opinion about Dalarna University said that they are investigating the possibilities of moving to Stockholm? Then the entire existence of the business has ended somewhere because it is a regional university that aims to be involved in providing the region with skills. On site in Borlänge today there is a deep collaboration with the industry and an infrastructure around the entire university business. There is a political decision at the bottom of it to locate the business here. Doesn't the Minister of Higher Education mean that there must be a political decision to decide to move 300 government jobs from a place of this size?
i-KnZmEfrbBWT44zfMjdBJfJ	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin, for the follow-up discussion! Yes, I share the view that there is an incredibly important business in Borlänge that is strongly linked to industry. There is also a good, complete research and education environment there in close collaboration with the industry that is strategically important – not only for Dalarna but for the whole of Sweden, I would say. This is a vital part of our export industry that finances much of the wealth we have, not only in Dalarna but throughout the country. It is therefore extremely important. The reason why we want higher education and research throughout the country is precisely to be able to supply skills to both the community and industry. However, close collaboration should also be ensured to keep the pressure on innovation in the industry so that it survives in a global, competitive market. It is therefore important to stress that this is not a ready-made plan for co-location or relocation. It's an investigation that will highlight the consequences of that. As Minister of Higher Education, I'm really following this closely. I also intend to go to Dalarna University to meet with the management and visit the business but also meet representatives of the business community up there to hear how they view this. There are important goals to be met as an authority. As a government, we must ensure that we are actually able to do that. However, within the framework of that objective management, all authorities have quite a great deal of freedom. I would say that, following the reforms decided by Parliament, higher education institutions and universities have an even greater autonomy than before. As regards the parliamentary decision taken in the 1970s, after that, a number of reforms and university proposals have been passed in the Riksdag. One of them, from 1993, is about the increased autonomy of colleges and universities. That's something we're behind, and I'm guessing the Moderates are behind it too. It cannot therefore be said that the decision taken in 1977 is still a binding decision. It is the reforms that have followed that are binding. The 1993 reform clarified the role and responsibility of higher education institutions to dimension education, but it includes a great deal of freedom in the localisation of education. I'm a little curious about whether the Moderates are behind this reform or want to go back to an earlier one, when there was greater government governance of colleges and universities. If so, it is a new direction for the Moderates not to safeguard the autonomy of our higher education institutions.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-220	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by saying that I welcome the fact that the Minister for Higher Education is well aware of the education being conducted in Borlänge today and that she seems to have faith in it. I was clear when I started my previous post that we absolutely support the autonomy that our universities enjoy. What I want answers to from the Minister for Higher Education is this: if there is a fundamental political decision to relocate a certain number of public services, that is to say that this issue has been considered so important in the past that the decision has been taken at political level, is it the view of the Minister for Higher Education that a hole in decision-making can then be dropped and the authorities can relocate at their discretion? What would the Minister of Higher Education say, hypothetically, if Dalarna University declared that it intends to move its operations to Stockholm? Would the Minister for Higher Education consider that it is within the autonomy of the university and the university to make such a decision? Basically, it is that the decision-making assembly here in the past has said: We think it is appropriate to locate a university in Dalarna's two largest cities. Now the university says: We want to investigate the conditions for moving to one of the cities. Fine, let the college investigate it. However, if political decisions were taken once, does the Minister not think that it should reasonably be done again in the event of the closure of such a large operation, which will have huge and far-reaching consequences for the whole region?
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-226	Mr President, I would like to As I said, if the 1977 reform had still been the latest, it would have been just as the Member of Parliament says. But now the Riksdag has made decisions on other higher education reforms, of which 1993 is the one that is in many ways the governing body. At that time, higher education institutions and universities were given far-reaching autonomy but also a far-reaching responsibility for dimensioning education and to some extent making decisions about location and design to take place on campus or, for example, at a distance. To follow the Riksdag's decision is therefore not to go in and govern in detail, but to give the higher education institutions that responsibility. However, as I said, we have set other objectives that are extremely important. This is, among other things, the objective of cooperation, which was previously referred to as the third task. However, it is also to be able to cope with the supply of skills throughout the country. This is also within the framework of what the Minister of Economic Affairs is now working on – the new industrialisation strategy. So there are many objectives that we as governments have set ourselves and that colleges have to meet. What I intend to do when I travel to Dalarna and for a dialogue is to hear how you intend to meet these goals, when we know that it means a lot that you are there and interact in the vicinity of the industry, not least for the supply of skills but also for the ability to innovate in the industry. I assume that all of this will be highlighted in the investigation before a decision is made. The autonomy you have, it is under very great responsibility to also meet the goals that the Riksdag has set for the operation. These objectives are that we should complete the dimensioning, that is, the need for skilled labour, but also clear a clear collaborative mission. We in this government have also set ourselves the goal of achieving a broader recruitment process, that is to say, being able to recruit from groups that do not come from study-experienced homes and ensuring that more people are given the chance to enter higher education. In the forthcoming draft budget, there is also a decision that we will pass both validation and completion of the level of education of the newcomers. All of this will be handled by our colleges. To do this, we have also provided resources. For Dalarna University, as I said at the beginning of this year, we have contributed 4 million on the education side. This will be expanded with up to 18 million to more training places by 2018. With the proposal in the budget for next year, we will add another EUR 5 million to research funding. It is a new policy that was not carried out under the previous government, as these colleges were quite starved of both educational and research funds. Since we think it is important that there is higher education and research throughout the country for skills provision and development, we provide resources. That is why we cannot see it as just a resource issue. There is therefore even more reason to closely follow the investigation, see how to listen to stakeholders and what impact assessments are made to achieve the objectives decided by the Riksdag.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-238	Mr President, I would like to The question is of great importance in principle, namely whether the Minister for Higher Education is of the opinion that authorities should reorganise themselves in such a way as to run counter to the political intentions that existed at the time of the relocation decision. The Minister for Higher Education says that the government will follow the matter closely, monitoring whether the investigation will be able to meet the objectives that guide the way in which the activities are to be carried out. What happens if the government perceives that the goals of a possible reorganisation are not being met? Is the government prepared to go in and tell the university that it needs to retain the current organisational structure?
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-240	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that the Moderates show the great commitment to the higher education institutions that during their reign were quite starving born of research money as well as educational money. Now we are giving them more resources to complete the important mission, which we seem to agree on, to ensure the supply of skills throughout the country and to have research and collaboration, not least with the industry, which is an important part of Sweden's exports and thus the prosperity we have in the country. As I said, the decision taken in 1977 has been followed by other parliamentary decisions. Now we follow the subsequent parliamentary decisions, and the 1993 reform of higher education is still indicative. That is why I will follow what Parliament has said, that our colleges and universities should have far-reaching autonomy and responsibility. The investigation is well within the framework of the self-governing principle contained in the proposal that has been decided in the Riksdag. I will follow Parliament's decisions, and I will also follow the investigation work at Dalarna University and carefully analyse the consequences that they assess need to be done. I will also discuss with the stakeholders and representatives of the region that Dalarna University has to collaborate with. What will then happen remains to be seen when the results of that work are complete. I am sure we will have reason to come back to this.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-243	Mr President, I would like to Erik Ottoson has asked me whether I intend to terminate the investigation mission on Bromma airport early, whether I intend to comply with Parliament's announcements on Bromma airport and whether I intend to take the necessary steps to keep Bromma airport in a long-term perspective. I am aware that, in response to a question from Jesper Skalberg Karlsson on 28 October this year, I assessed that the preparation of Parliament's announcements on Bromma airport would be completed shortly. With respect for the Parliament's request for a reply, the preparation in the Government Office is not yet completed. Pending that, it is not possible for me to account for what measures the government is considering.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-245	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer, even if it was short and a little unimaginative! But that has been offset by the Government in other interpellation debates. There the imagination has flowed freer. The question of Bromma is a dear recurring subject in which I and the Government have completely different starting points. His party advocates the closure of Bromma airport and instead the construction of housing in the area, while my party claims the opposite, that we should keep Bromma airport and that housing construction in Stockholm can only get off the ground if we continue to have good connections with the rest of the country and the rest of the world. We think that's how to move forward. We have two completely different opinions. Now, thank God, it is my view that the Riksdag shares and the Government is in a clear minority on the subject. This is starting to look more and more like the relationship between a strict parent and a disobedient child where Parliament repeatedly tells the government that no, so here you must not do, Bromma airport should remain. But the government struggles and pulls it all out. Mr President, I would like to I am raised to follow the words of a parent and that it is not negotiable. Now we have told the Government twice. Will we have to say to a third time?
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-249	Mr President, I would like to I think Erik Ottoson and I share a lot of the description of reality. On the other hand, when it comes to parenting and how to act or not to act as a child, I think that everyone should have their own line on what is best for their own family. I will not interfere in or rate how Erik Ottoson handles his parenthood, if there is any such thing, or how he looks at being children of parents. I would like to liken the relationship between government and parliament as a bit more governed by regulations and rules – the parliamentary order, the form of government and other things. It will, of course, govern the relationship when the Member of Parliament Erik Ottoson and I, as Minister of State, as representative of the Government, debate. Then not so much allegory about parenting and children. Having said that and with respect for the Parliament's desire for information, I can only say that the preparation at the Government Office is not completed. We are working on this issue, and pending it, it is not possible for me to account for what measures the government is considering. There is not only a Charter but also a generally accepted way in which the government returns to Parliament on issues such as announcements. We intend, of course, to respect that order and not to deviate from existing practices and rules.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-252	Mr President, I would like to Mehmet Kaplan does not share my view of parenthood, and thank God I have not yet become a parent. Instead, he believes that it is about laws and regulations. Absolutely, therefore, let us address the laws and regulations and see how reasonable the current situation is from them. The Government has received two announcements in which the Riksdag, which appoints the Government – the Riksdag, on whose graces the Government is a Minister – has clearly communicated its opinion. In addition, the Government has received comments in the Constitutional Committee's review of the Government. You've been crystal clear. The Government has been a minister for more than a year, and I cannot help but ask: How difficult is it to be? It is simple, Mr President. It's incredibly simple. It is about two announcements, about punctuation in the KU, that the Government is a minister because the Riksdag has appointed a prime minister who has then appointed him, not for any other reason. This is becoming more and more a matter of defiance. I come back to the comparison of general child-faith with a parent, for this is becoming more and more like it. It takes time to put an end to something that should have been stopped before the summer, actually even before the spring. It is absolutely correct that the Government stands here and says that the matter is still being prepared in the Government Office. We can talk about the regulations that regulate what the Government can and cannot say in an interpellation debate, but it is worrying enough that the issue is still being prepared in the Government Office. Seriously, Mr President and the Government, that is not satisfactory. It is too late, and it is an obvious defiance of Parliament's clear instructions.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-258	Mr President, I would like to I thank Erik Ottoson for the follow-up question. This is about how we do things in Sweden within the legislature. I have been in this Chamber for eight years, and I can assure Erik Ottoson that I have experienced a number of occasions when, as a Member of Parliament, I have felt that it should be possible to go faster. As a minister, I see things being prepared and worked on within the Government Office, and I can say that there is a greater understanding, although in the last term I felt that the ministers should show urgency. It's exactly the same understanding that you get when you become a parent, Erik Ottoson, because sometimes the children don't behave the way you might want to. I do not make any comparisons otherwise, because I must point out that I do not think that the comparison is consistent with child rearing and the relationship between children – parents and parliament – the government. These are completely different conditions. Here, it is tradition and practice, but also the form of government and the parliamentary order that prescribes how we should deal with various issues. During the previous term of office, which was more similar to this term of office than in the period 2006-2010, when there was a majority rule in this House – that is, by the way, something unusual – announcements were made on a number of occasions. The government is not the first government to have received a number of announcements, and this parliament is not the first parliament to have indicated direction and speed. This will continue to be the case in the future. What is important is that we stick to the practice and the regulatory framework that surrounds announcements. I myself have been to the KU and both heard the questions and clearly described how the government has looked at the issues regarding Bromma airport. I want to be careful that I, as a minister of state, am bound by the words with which I have told both the KU and the House how we intend to act. I am therefore careful to tell you how we act in this case. It is with respect that Parliament wishes a reply that I must nevertheless say that the preparation is ongoing within the Government Office. Erik Ottoson may think he has heard it before, not just during this Parliament. Just go back to the web archive for the Swedish Parliament's television broadcasts. There he can see different ministers of different colours – both from their own party The Moderates and from other parties – using that concept. It's because it best describes what's going on at the moment. It is not something despite or to fall outside the scope, but it is, on the contrary, to stick to the regulations and practices that we have in the Swedish Parliament. There, the parliamentary order and the form of government determine how we should act. That is why I have given this answer to Erik Ottoson. For my part, this is a much bigger issue, namely respect for the essence of our laws and for the mandate given to Erik Ottoson by his constituents. Of course he will be able to ask this question, and I will answer it to the best of my ability. That's what I've done.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-268	Mr President, I would like to It is true that the government is not the first government to have been announced against it. However, it is the first government to have received over a hundred announcements against it during the first year of government. It is the first government that has received such clear announcements, such as closing an investigation. When we talk about what needs to be prepared in the Government Office, Mr President, and if we ignore the less subtle ruling techniques of the State Council regarding what one learns at what stages of life and what position he considers himself to be in that he can tell me how things work, we can see that the closure of an investigation is not something that needs to be prepared for a very long time. However, the creation of legislation is quite another matter. Then you have to investigate and prepare in a much longer way – absolutely. But stopping the work of producing an unwanted proposal does not require any longer processing time. On the other hand, I can imagine that the dialogue between the Social Democrats and the Environmental Party in the Government Office may need a little longer processing time. I have noticed that the Green Party has had some setbacks recently, and I imagine that there are no more. The problem is that this possibly becomes a pawn in the game. Mr President, I would like to I am concerned about the way in which the Government chooses to respond to this. I have been for a long period of time, and there are many of us who share the concerns. This is not something that needs to mean a long duration of proceedings. I will return to my final question to the Government: how difficult can it be to understand that we want to keep Bromma airport, that we do not want to keep the person who is going to close Bromma airport and that it is the Government's task to deliver this to Parliament?
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-274	Mr President, I would like to Speaking of ruling techniques, it was not I as a minister who began with the comparison with parents and children, but it was Erik Ottoson. I was not the one who in a very repetitive way took to the allegory, but it was Erik Ottoson. Erik Ottoson can of course get caught up in this in the future and say that I have used ruling techniques. But it is a master technique in itself to make accusations against a person who has only very clearly repeated what the questioner has put up, namely the comparison with parents and children. Just flush back, Erik Ottoson, and listen to what you said in your first post, namely that this would be to compare with parents and children. I repeat: it is not possible to compare this way, because there is no organic connection here. Parliament is elected. Erik Ottoson, on the other hand, was quite right that it is the Riksdag that allows a government to be a government. But to compare it with parents and children is to take another step in one direction that I think I know Erik Ottoson may regret now. On the question itself, Parliament has work in progress. We will come to a decision at the Government Office. This is certainly not different from previous governments, but governments get announcements that they handle in the usual order. We will do the same.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-278	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp has asked me what measures I intend to take to reduce work-related sick leave in relation to mental illness and how this increasing ill-health can be prevented at individual and organisational level. Since 2010, absenteeism has increased sharply. It is mainly women's sick leave that is increasing, and mental illness is today the most common reason for sick leave for both women and men. The rising sickness absence is very worrying. Breaking development and stabilizing sick leave is one of the government's top priorities. The Government has presented a broad programme of measures for increased health and reduced sick leave. The programme includes measures in seven areas that need to be developed in order to improve health, break negative trends and stabilise sick leave. In this context, I would particularly like to mention the following measures and initiatives. The working environment and working conditions are important for sick leave and are part of the explanation for women's higher sick leave. The government has made a number of initiatives in the field of health and safety at work. The Swedish Work Environment Authority will receive increased funding, the state contribution to regional safety representatives will be increased, work life research will be strengthened and the skills supply of occupational health care will be supported. In September, the Swedish Work Environment Authority decided on a new regulation on organizational and social work environment, which aims to reduce work-related ill health. I welcome this. At the beginning of 2016, the Government intends to present a new strategy on health and safety at work, which will be developed in close consultation with the social partners. The increase in sick leave shows that more can and should be done in the workplace to prevent and shorten sick leave. I have therefore started discussions with the social partners on how sick leave can be prevented and how rehabilitation and conversion measures can be promoted. The Government also intends to make efforts to ensure that the employer takes responsibility for rehabilitation and is supported for this. Försäkringskassan is a central player in the sick leave process. An essential task for the authority is to assess the occupational capacity of the insured person. The assessment includes taking advantage of people's work capacity and ability to adapt in order to avoid long-term sick leave. A correct application of the rules and a good collaboration with health care, employers and the Public Employment Service are fundamental to a well-functioning health insurance system. In order to strengthen Försäkringskassan's management and achieve a well-functioning sick leave process, the Government proposes in the budget bill that the agency be provided with increased resources. Finally, I would like to highlight the importance of the primary care activities being adapted for people with mental illness and pain problems. The government will make efforts to promote the ability of primary care to provide adequate care and treatment so that people can regain health and return to work as soon as possible. As my answer shows, a variety of actions are needed in a wide range of areas. It is necessary that measures are taken in a broad and concerted manner to prevent ill health and absenteeism.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-287	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is an important debate, every time we stand in this Chamber talking about the increase in sick leave, particularly in the field of mental illness. Thank you for your answer, which still gives me a lot of new questions. I think I choose to start with them. The Minister says that the Government has made a number of recommendations in the field of health and safety at work and that the Swedish Work Environment Authority is given increased funding. What we are now seeing is that the increase in sick leave is taking place in contact professions, and the public sector is the major, dominant employers in the professions. It is certainly excellent that the Swedish Work Environment Authority has more resources. In the end, however, most municipalities and county councils are governed by the Social Democrats at the helm. Then it is also an employer's question. In what way can the Minister include it in the large programme to reduce the number of new sick leave? If you do not get to grips with and take these signals seriously in municipalities and county councils, the increases that we see now from month to month will never be stopped. One of my questions is how to work preventively with municipalities and county councils. Of course, primary care and first-line psychiatry are extremely important, because it is often where you come into contact with care for the first time, when you have stress-related ill health. Then I wonder what needs to be done. It is generally the county councils that have the ultimate responsibility for first-line psychiatry. What is it that needs to be done? In the Social Insurance Report, there is a strong proposal to give the county councils, in particular, responsibility for returning to work in the Health Care Act, that it should be included in the portal clause of the Health Care Act. I would like to know how the Minister thinks about that particular proposal and where it is today. As the Minister knows, the proposals we made in the Social Insurance investigation were the result of a broad compromise agreement, and I think that we could achieve a much better result in terms of mental health if this were included in the responsibility of the Health Act. The Social Insurance Agency has been given additional resources from the government. There's a question, too. What I see in the budget is that the government takes money from the rehabilitation resources and places it on the Social Insurance Agency for increased support for processing. That's why I have a question. The rehabilitation guarantee has received strong criticism from the Swedish National Audit Office. However, when I look at what the Minister has now made as a proposal in a package of measures, I see that it is actually the rehabilitation guarantee that is there. Then the guarantee itself should be supported instead of taking money to the administration. That is a further question that I have. I have chosen to focus my interpellation on conversion support, as it also says in the title, because among women who feel bad about stress-related ill health many times is simply about changing employers, changing jobs. Then we must also make it easier to move from one job to another or to start one's own business. There we have a variety of proposals that I will put forward in the next round of debates.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-298	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lotta Finstorp for your initial questions! I will start with what you call the problem of public employers, the working environment and contact professions. It is quite right, as Lotta Finstorp points out: the situation regarding sick leave is very telling. Women in the large, women-dominated workplaces, in particular, in the public-funded, politically-driven part of welfare, stand out here and have been doing so for quite some time. What is important is to strengthen the resources for the Swedish Work Environment Authority, which means that the work much more focused can make inspections in this sector too, which may not have been so obvious before, and also focus on what is the major problem there, namely the psychosocial work environment problems. One example is the major review made by the Swedish Work Environment Authority of 52 municipalities just a couple of years ago. It clearly identified and clarified the causes of health and safety at work that generate ill health. I think that's important. I also believe that it is important to make the efforts that the government has now made, with more research into women's work environment. Both the work environment research and the Swedish Work Environment Authority have very much been based on a picture that Sweden is an industrial nation and the workplaces that we have are industrial workplaces, with the following work environment problems. I therefore believe that this is important and that the efforts we are making there are important. I also tend to make it very clear in dialogue that this is what the problem of ill health is like. I think it is a lot about large staff groups, little control and high demands in the working environment. I am not least inclined to point that out frequently. The second part that Lotta Finstorp points to is first-line psychiatry, which is extremely important. The government is also taking a grip through the action programme that we are now presenting. We know that resources, not least in primary care, are not dimensioned to meet as high a proportion of mental illness as we see today. For example, it is about access to psychologists and psychiatry in different ways. Therefore, we are also making efforts in the package of measures to improve those elements but also have a clear ambition on the part of the government to take a holistic approach to the efforts made on mental illness. For example, we are making a stronger effort in terms of mental illness among young people and children, but also in terms of women, specifically linked to primary care. As far as the rehabilitation guarantee is concerned, it is absolutely right that we have relocated 250 million and strengthen the treatment at Försäkringskassan. At the same time, on the basis of the criticisms that have been made, we are now doing a review of the rehabilitation guarantee, but also of the health billions, to take advantage of experiences of things that have worked well over these years and perhaps also to remove and change things that have worked less well. We know that there are such things. For example, the rehabilitation coordinators that these resources have funded are very positive to me. It can also consider how this part could possibly be extended to be a bridge between employers, health care and the Social Insurance Agency. I will come back to you later.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-307	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for an important debate. I would like to begin by informing you about the proposals we Moderates have regarding conversion and how we could think. When it comes to mental illness, which is stress-related and generally linked to the workplace, it is not a quick fix. There is not an answer that suits everyone, but it is important to have many solutions because you have to look at each individual's needs. What does this person need to get back to work? Among other things, we have already talked about strengthening first-line psychiatry. There, the focus has often been on mental illness such as psychosis, manic depression and so on. This is a bit like a new kind of diagnosis that has taken the county councils so to speak a little on the bed. Here, the county councils and health care providers must also generally rethink their thinking based on the needs of the population. There is a inertia in the system which I find worrying. When it comes to being able to change jobs a little faster, for example being able to start your own business, it is not possible to think based on ad hoc solutions: We are now flagging from the government's side for the choice of care to be turned down. What happens then? Well, what we now see is that there are fewer female entrepreneurs. It's stopped. Many of the women who have been able to start healthcare companies and RUT companies have been extremely skilled in their public sector professions and have moved on as entrepreneurs. But the signal system makes it stop when the government doesn't put its foot down. The investments stop and you as a woman don't have the courage to start your own business. There is a difference between women and men in starting their own business. Women generally want suspenders and belt. That's why you don't dare. If it is the case that the government is turning down the choice of care in any way, you do not dare to stand there with a newly started company. Everything's kind of connected. It is important that public employers – where we see that the increase in mental illness is increasing significantly – offer employees in, for example, health and social care physical training during working hours. It has produced very good results in many places, and it would be good if more municipalities and county councils did so. It should not be possible to choose only county councils and municipalities as employers. It should be protected that there are more. It is also linked to mental illness whether you can change employers in the profession you have trained to. As for the amount of the release, for example, I will take a nurse who wants to read on to a nurse. If you have a family then you may need to be able to make a living by working extra on weekends and so on. Then it is important to increase the amount of the release so that you do not hit the ceiling but can work as much as you can and need to be able to support your family. It may also be that you have the right to take longer leave to start your own business or to try another job. Today, the employer generally grants six months' leave. But we think it would be very good to have a year to try a new profession for a little longer. It would be good if the Minister could comment a little more on the proposals I have made so far.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-316	Mr President, I would like to I thank Lotta Finstorp for this speech and will be very happy to comment on these proposals. I took part with great interest in this interpellation and share the view that conversion aid could be developed, not least for those working in the public sector. In this interpellation, Lotta Finstorp points in particular to the conversion agreements that have existed in the labour market for a long time. They have mainly regulated the conversion in the event of dismissal, i.e. in the event of a lack of employment. The question is how the conversion agreements could actually be developed in order to also function, for example, in the case of more voluntary conversion or in the case of conversion due to a risk of ill health. I believe that there are enormous opportunities in this. Perhaps there is also a role for us politically to stimulate the development of these agreements, which today de facto cover the whole labour market, including the local and county government sector, for some years now. There are resources here, there are staff and there are above all when it comes to the different conversion funds that we have on the Swedish labour market and that both Swedish employers and unions jointly take responsibility for fantastic results. As far as private workers are concerned, TSL, as the conversion fund is called there, is today able to convert 80% into new jobs. Private officials are fortunate in over nine out of ten cases, where officials are successfully converted into new jobs, studies or entrepreneurship. The public sector conversion fund has much less experience. On the private side you have many years on your neck. After all, however, the conversion fund in the public sector manages to convert 81% to work or studies. These are fantastic results, where you have both staff and knowledge. This is also one of the things that I highlight when I meet the social partners and it is precisely about preventive work linked to the increasing ill-health and how the social partners could contribute better. Therefore, I really believe that the Moderates in this case are something very important on the tracks. I look forward to how we could develop our dialogue on this. I think there is a great potential in this, that is to say that instead of experiencing that you need to remain in a workplace where you have a bad work environment or do not feel comfortable because of the relationship with co-workers or managers, which can be the basis for an increasing ill health, actually has the opportunity to move on and change. We also hope that people will last longer and work longer. Then I think that in many professions this will be something that is important and that will be part of a modern labour market. I also note the proposal on physical training on working time. I think that's very important. There are studies that point to good results in this regard. It is a very good investment for employers to invest in such opportunities for staff. We know that this is often the case in male-dominated environments and in male-dominated workplaces, but much less so in the women-dominated workplaces in the public sector where neither time nor even opportunities exist. I find the proposal on the right to leave very exciting. Today, employers can, as I said, grant six months' leave of absence so that one person can try another job. They can be more generous if they want to. It is not entitled to this leave, but it is possible to have it. However, you can get the right to be free for studies. This is something we need to talk about more. How do we get a working life that also allows greater flexibility from this perspective?
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-329	Mr President, I would like to These are important issues. I think you have to think outside the box, just as I feel the Minister is now doing, and think again from the labour market that we have today. The conversion agreements are about when people have been given notice, but they are not about being able to use them in the way that could be done today on the basis that someone needs to change employers in case of mental illness or when it is actually time for both employers and employees to separate. It is also good to do so before it has gone too far. It is also interesting to look at how other countries have built up their security systems in a way that does not prevent people from changing jobs. In Sweden, people rarely change jobs – although I believe that the new, young generation will not get gold bells on as many occasions as today; the younger generation changes more than my generation has done, so to speak. Denmark, for example, has the opposite trend compared to Sweden. There are considerably fewer sick leave, at least three months ago when I looked at it, and there it is much more common to change employers. So somewhere there is a truth in that that it must be easier to change employers. I think that you often stay with an employer for too long because you do not dare to change. It is also about, for example, the LAS system, which means that the last entry will be first out. Flexicurity is also very interesting to look at, even if you might not just take it off as a model but look at it based on what society and the labour market look like today. I think the Social Insurance Agency can really only make sure that people get on with it. How to ensure that fewer people get into sick leave is the problem.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-334	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for that, Lotta Finstorp! That is exactly what this is about, that is to say, that we want to prevent people from entering sick leave. You should be able to pick up the signals earlier and thus also put in the right stakes. What we see not least in the women-dominated sector today, the local government sector, is that it might instead land in the buying-out of people. It is costly and can often actually mean tragedy for the individual. To conclude at a much earlier stage that you have an opportunity to move forward and that you get support in it, I think, of course, is something important. It should be part of the labour market in the future. I think an interesting example of what we are discussing here today is when the Teachers' Association a few years ago felt that teachers' salaries were far too low, and that many teachers today feel that there is a health and safety problem. In fact, the Teachers' Association called on its members to move – change employers – in order to both raise their wages and create a better situation. It was in those situations, when you were in a negotiating position, that you had the opportunity to better negotiate your terms instead of going year after year in a situation you are not entirely satisfied with. But it is clear that it may be granted a professional group that is very sought after in different ways and more difficult for others. I find this exciting to discuss. It is also, of course, about how to make demands on conversion and about ensuring that people can feel safe during the transition. Because that's when you dare to move, I think. I look forward to a continued dialogue on this and think that these are exciting issues.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-338	Mr President, I would like to Maria Malmer Stenergard has asked the Minister for Finance if Members of Parliament should have access to the calculations which, according to her, form the basis for the Government's decision on the allocation of funds to municipalities and county councils in connection with the migration settlement and how the Riksdag should be able to exercise its full control if the calculations are not released. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The Government has in the 2015 supplementary amending budget (prop. 2015/ 16:47) proposed temporary support to municipalities and county councils in response to the refugee crisis. The funds shall be allocated according to principles agreed between the government and the alliance parties and presented in the bill. Within the Government Office, an indicative distribution of funds between municipalities and between county councils has been calculated. The government has not taken a position on this calculation. The preliminary breakdown has been published on the Government's website. The Government Office has on several occasions provided information on the procedure for preparing the calculations of questions from individual municipalities, the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils and the parliamentary investigation service. The Government Office has also provided information on the statistics on which the calculations were based. Several people, including Maria Malmer Stenergard, have requested to obtain the estimates for the preliminary allocation. The official who took a position on these requests has considered that the calculations are not contained in any official documents. Maria Malmer Stenergard has requested that the Government responsible examine the information she has received on this matter. I do not wish to precede the examination of her request, but I note that individual Members of Parliament have the same opportunities as the general public in general. In the above-mentioned bill, the Government has provided the information deemed necessary based on the division of responsibilities between the Riksdag and the Government. Neither the Government nor the Government Office have received any request for further information from the Finance Committee, which was responsible for the preparation of the bill by the Riksdag. In its report, the committee proposed that the Parliament should decide in accordance with the Government's proposal(Report 2015/ 16:FiU18). If the Riksdag decides in accordance with the proposal, the Government will decide on the allocation of funds to municipalities and county councils.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-342	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his answer, although it does raise more questions than it does answers. In the 2015 Supplementary amending budget, the planned allocation of funds to municipalities and county councils has been explained in a very clear way. The only words are as follows: and when allocating funds between municipalities, the number of asylum seekers and newcomers in a municipality and the distribution between children and adults in relation to the municipality's population will be taken into account. ..................................................... I would like to begin by pointing out that it is true that the Government and the alliance parties have agreed on the principles for the distribution of temporary aid to municipalities and county councils. That is why we have also approved the proposal in the Committee on Finance. It is important that municipalities are now strengthened so that they can cope better with the challenges they face on many levels. I also assume that the government has actually allocated according to the principles in force. Nevertheless, I think it is crucial that Members of Parliament, representatives of municipalities and citizens should be able to review the actual distribution in order to see that it has been carried out in accordance with our agreement and that a principle of equal treatment between municipalities is respected. It is not only I who have reacted, but also municipal representatives and citizens. They feel great frustration that they cannot compare in the calculations. This applies not least to my municipality of Kristianstad. Mr President, I would like to As the Minister writes in his reply, I have also formally asked the Government to get the calculations out. The responsible official has considered it to be work material and therefore there is no such document to be consulted. She has referred to the responsible minister for decision on the matter, and I have requested such a decision. I don't know who the responsible minister is yet. It can be said that the assessment of whether the document can be disclosed is not quite clear. I asked for this more than a week ago, and I have still not received an answer. According to what I myself learned quite early when I worked as a civil servant, the JO would probably have views on such a processing time. I have put the interpellation to the Minister for Finance, but it is the Minister for Civil Affairs who answers it with reference to how the government distributes its work. Then perhaps one could assume that it is also he who is responsible for the government. However, the Minister of Civil Affairs refers to the review that the responsible Minister should make with regard to my formal request for obtaining a public document. I would therefore, of course, like to start by asking the question: who is actually responsible for the government?
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-349	Mr President, I would like to The basis for the preliminary calculations is, so far, only a work material in the Government Office. The matter will only be closed when the Government decides on the allocation of funds to the municipalities. This decision can only be taken when the Riksdag has taken a position on the municipalities to which the temporary support is to be granted collectively. As the case is not closed, the file is not a public document. As a Member of Parliament, Maria Malmer Stenergard is formally counted as an individual, and she cannot request the basis on behalf of the Riksdag. As the basis is not a public document, it shall not be disclosed to her. Maria Malmer Stenergard has, as she said, requested to have the issue of disclosure of the evidence examined by the government, and the government will deal with that request in the usual order. However, it must be said that when the case is closed, the file will become general, in accordance with the legislation. In that case, the official of the Government Office shall also take a position on which memos and supporting documents must be archived and thus included in public documents. It is intended that the basis will be included in the file and thus become a public document. Then, of course, it will be dealt with on the basis of the legislation in force.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-352	Mr President, I would like to I first tried to access these documents through the parliamentary investigation service but was denied access to them on the grounds that they were work material. At that time, I also personally, as an individual and not on behalf of Parliament, tried to request it. Now the Minister is clearly saying that this is a work material. It is then, in fact, a formal decision that he makes here and now in this House, if I understand it correctly. My formal request remains, and I have been given the answer that it should be examined by the responsible Minister of State as Head of Authority or by the Government as a collective. I have not received any definitive information. But now the Minister of Civil Affairs says that it is therefore work material, and then I have to take it as a formal decision on my request for review. Otherwise, he'll have to sort it out. He is also welcome to clarify who is responsible as he refers to the responsible minister in his reply to me.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-355	Mr President, I would like to So I do not want to lead the way, and it is the government that makes the decision, so that we are clear on the order that applies under our legislation. Since information is available in the media and also on the government's website, one might ask whether it is not the public document. But the data published on the website is a preliminary distribution that the Government Office has produced and published to give some guidance on how the funds will be distributed. The distribution is made in accordance with the agreement that is also supported by the Moderates. The preliminary breakdown is, of course, a public document because it is published. However, publication does not mean that the matter of apportionment is closed or that the other documents become public. The examination of the distribution decision can only take place when a distribution decision exists, i.e. a government decision. For the purposes of this Decision, the calculations of the individual contributions will be available.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-358	Mr President, I would like to This isn't easy to sort out. However, I read before in my reply, which I also received in writing today. It states that Maria Malmer Stenergard has asked the responsible Government to examine the information she has received on this matter, that is to say from the official, and I do not wish to precede the examination of her request. It is entirely true that I have asked the responsible minister to examine the matter, and I have been told that it will either be the responsible minister or the government. The answer thus states that it is the responsible minister who will examine the question. But now the Minister of Civil Affairs is saying that it is the government that is going to examine the question of my request for public documents, if I understand it correctly. I still want to know who is responsible for the minister referred to in the interpellation response. There are still a lot of questions. So I do not know if I can get the calculations out and do not really know what the time for this request is. The question is under preparation. Nor do I know whether I will be able to get the calculations out once the government has made a final decision after the bill has been passed. Then, of course, my central question remains: how can the government be examined, and how will citizens, municipalities and individual citizens be able to ensure that the distribution follows agreed principles and the requirement for equal treatment of municipalities? I now feel a little more confused than when we started this debate, so I think I will have reason to come back in one way or another.
i-a68dc1f99cf02c8c-363	Mr President, I would like to There is an order for this. This is regulated by our constitution, and that is precisely the order followed by the Government Office and the Government on issues relating to the disclosure of public documents. This is, of course, the order that is being followed in this case too. It is important to remember that if the Riksdag had decided that this basis presented by the Government was not sufficient, it would have been possible to ask for more information. There is an order for this. However, the Committee on Finance has considered that there is sufficient basis for taking a decision on the basis of what is presented by the government. The government has thus followed the order in force. I will not precede the legal assessment of the request made by the interpeller to the Government Office, but it will be made in the order resulting from the Swedish Constitution.
