i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-6	Mr President, I would like to I support our reservations under paragraphs 2 and 3. Otherwise, I refer to our particular opinion. Today's debate on migration is different from previous years. This autumn the situation has constantly changed, and it feels very uncertain to be able to predict how this budget stands in 2016. What I can say with certainty is that it will need to be supplemented by new decisions, probably under pressure of time. But let us not, in times like these, forget the long - term decisions! The future will come to us with great certainty. I intend to touch on some of the content of our moderate movements. What had direct budgetary impact at the time of the exercise was to create the possibility of cheaper accommodation for unaccompanied minors, to carry out mapping and language teaching already during the asylum examination period and to move from permanent permits to temporary permits. Even here we can see that we Moderates have had the initiative and are willing to take responsibility. Now the three proposals I mentioned have a majority behind them in the Swedish Parliament. The large number of refugees now arriving will require many and difficult positions from us in Parliament, both by the government parties and by the opposition. The main responsibility, however, lies with the government. They have the responsibility to rule the country, and this can be pointed out. I understand that in the area of migration it is very difficult and complex now, but I cannot say that the government has directly pinked the market. Mr President, I would like to We in Sweden have a long tradition of providing protection to people in need of protection. It is based on will, but also on established conventions, such as the Geneva Convention and the Council of Europe Convention on Human Rights. This must in future be the basis of our action. This year there have been 149 000 asylum seekers in Sweden, of which 32 000 unaccompanied minors. Since 2011, there have been 350 000 asylum seekers. This is a major challenge that will affect us for a long time. I have, I think, for the tenth year in a row said that there must be a difference between a yes and a no. This means that we need to focus much more on the return process. In the near future, it is very important that we get an agreement with Afghanistan. The Migration Agency, the police and the Prison Service Transport Centre, which are central to effective return, must cooperate better and more effectively. Today there are 22 000 expulsion orders from the Finnish Immigration Service. Work on this must be intensified. We Moderates believe that the misuse of Swedish passports must be curbed. It cannot be reasonable that 70 000 valid Swedish passports have been reported for loss. The reasonable measure should be to severely limit the possibility of obtaining more passports. A profession that is doing well is the traffickers. There's a lot of money to make, and the risk of getting caught is small. The penalties for these crimes must therefore be substantially tightened. The length of the sentence determines the tools that the law enforcement authorities can use. Since my family is extremely important to me, I understand more than well that those who come to Sweden want their family here as soon as possible. The requirement to provide for their relatives was too watered down because of all the exceptions. Not even 1% were affected. It is more than reasonable to demand that a connecting person be able to support his or her family. It is one way of giving priority to those in need of protection over those who do not. Mr President, I would like to Many of the decisions that need to be taken to deal with the current situation will require Sweden to take as an individual country. To believe that the EU will fix this in the short term is not realistic. On the other hand, it is absolutely essential to continue to pursue matters within the framework of the European Union. One important issue in this context is relations and agreements with the countries of origin and the EU. I believe that the European Union is a large and important interlocutor for many countries and therefore probably a partner who puts a much greater imprint than if little Sweden were to do this individually. Schengen cooperation stands and falls with effective border control that can combine the protection of the right of asylum with the need for control over which people come to our countries. It is reasonable to check the passports regularly at the border crossing points at the Schengen external border and to use the technical possibilities available, inter alia, with fingerprints. Another area is, of course, the relocation mechanism, which it is very important that we get in place as soon as possible. Sweden is now the last country to comply literally with the Dublin Regulation. After years of pointing this out, we must speak a language that is understood. As the registration is not made in the first country of asylum, as was intended, it is not possible in practice to apply the Dublin Regulation. Against this background, we propose that those who arrive in Sweden without having been registered on the road through the EU should be able to be rejected at the border. It is therefore not a question of violating the right of asylum, but of the country in which a person is to be tried, namely the first safe country. If a person comes by ferry from Germany or over the Öresund Bridge, I think it is beyond doubt that that person has passed one or more safe countries. Through such a measure, Sweden will have the temporary break necessary for long-term sustainable reception of refugees and for us to be able to adapt our legislation to other comparable countries. I'm worried about the situation we're in. I am concerned that the measures presented by the government last week will not be enough. In the last seven days, 5,679 people have arrived in Sweden. That would be an annual figure of 295 000. There is a shortage of treatment centres and school places. Municipalities and authorities testify that health and social services are being squeezed away as a result of the great pressure. I am also concerned that the government does not seem to want to negotiate in the same way as it did in the previous migration talks. The interpretation is none other than that we are now in a completely locked position after negotiations between S and MP and that we are not able to negotiate with the rest of the parties. We need a break in our refugee reception. Mr President, I would like to We Moderates believe in cross-border mobility. It is fertilizing both for the people who come to us and for us who live and live here. It is fertilising both for Sweden as a country and for the countries from which these people come. When the alliance government reopened the door to the possibility of coming to Sweden to work, it was a big and important step. This door must be kept open. ( FIRST VICE PALMANN: I would like to remind you of the agreement reached between the group leaders to limit speaking time to six minutes. )
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-27	Mr President, I would like to Of course, the Swedish Democrats support all the SD reservations in the report, but for time to come, I only call for reservations 1, 3 and 4. Ever since the Swedish Democrats entered the Riksdag in 2010, we as a party have fought for a policy that focuses on our real responsibility as a politician in parliament. I am, of course, talking about responsibility for our people and society. We Swedish democrats strengthen in our budget the safety net and other welfare. We create the conditions for increased entrepreneurship and more jobs. These are the things we can invest in, while the rest of you are down-prioritising all this, instead of wasting tax on immigration-related fluke projects. Allow me to smile – we, which prioritise all areas of society, are called one-party, but not the rest of you, which almost only prioritise one area. In relation to the Government's proposal, we can only reduce the appropriations in this spending area by a total of around EUR 16 1⁄2 billion, because the policy we advocate reduces the asylum pressure on Sweden. Frankly, I am angry and angry, but I also realize that I must be humble. Given what you have all subjected our country to and in view of everything you have said to us when we have warned about this situation, it is not easy to be humble. I'll be honest with you. But I will do my best, and from all my heart I welcome your awakening. Much has happened in the area of migration. I think everyone can sign that. Since I stood here a year ago, almost all parties in Parliament have at least rhetorically chosen to adapt their policies to ours because reality has caught up with you. Today we have an acute housing shortage, we have a school in decay, a health care system with increasing strain and a judicial system that has difficulty meeting its commitments. At the same time, the challenges of these basic elements of well-being are being ignored. The situation in which municipalities and county councils are placed is completely ignored. They simply have to put up with the situation that you have created together and by common accord. We have small towns which, because of migration policy, can multiply their population without being able to count on sufficient financial assistance or long-term solutions from the state. Municipalities that have previously not even been able to take care of new arrivals are forced to accept more people who are eventually forced into exclusion. In desperation to defend this one is looking for simple sleeping places such as gymnasiums and even tent camps. What makes you think that tents in Sweden are better than a tent in Lebanon? What makes you think you are humane when you are more or less actively attracting people who are then displaced to misery or being redistributed to another unknown EU country? What makes you think that it is humane to steal even more money from the aid budget so that relatively wealthy migrants who have already reached security can take precedence over vulnerable people in the UN refugee camps? Mr President, I would like to To attract people here is to do them and our society a disservice. What we are seeing today is a reception that is completely cracked and is not worthy of a country that claims to be modern. A modern society would instead focus on Swedish prosperity to enable international trade and generous aid for real suffering. A human society would focus on those people who more than others need help, not those who have the privilege of getting to a rich country. Such a society would understand the importance of community rather than creating parallel societies in society. There is much to be done to deal with the current situation. I welcome all the proposals that go in the right direction. However, the Swedish Democrats firmly believe that the recent proposal is not enough. In addition, migration costs must be reduced and reported annually. By strictly applying the Dublin Regulation and by the government applying for an exemption from the EU to no longer allow people to seek asylum at our borders, we can completely stop asylum immigration because there is no conflict in our neighbourhood. The conditions for new arrivals and relatives must be changed so that it is no longer beneficial to go to Sweden. It should only be possible to obtain temporary residence permits where renewal takes place one year at a time with the possibility of a six-month extension. All of this must therefore also be communicated. The municipalities should be able to decide for themselves whether they can accept new arrivals. A review of the EBO legislation is needed in order to be able to dismantle it in the long term. Nevertheless, the Migration Agency should be given an extended mandate to organise and run refugee camps in its own right. Mr President, I would like to To conclude, I would ask the rest of you to listen to the people and see the reality of what it is. Instead of throwing various epithets at those who try to take responsibility for the country, listen and talk to us. Help bring an end to an anti-social and anti-human policy that divides, separates and strikes our people. That we in here together should be able to create a more harmonious society in which consideration and community are key words, I am convinced, is possible. It is now up to you to prove it.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-39	Mr President, I would like to Almost three months ago, I was standing on a beach in Turkey. The sun shone, and the white houses of the Greek villages on the other side were clearly visible. In the sand around my feet there were clothes from people who have tried to cross and risked their lives to go from Turkey to Greece and into the EU. That journey is dangerous because it is forbidden. On Monday, shortly after the EU had signed its new cooperation agreement with Turkey, I received reports from my friends in Izmir that 1 400 people had been gathered by the police and taken to a closed custody and then either expelled or sent to camps in the other part of the country. There are tents where they will be forced to sit idle until the day when Turkey decides that they can be expelled. Turkey has no right of asylum for Syrians, Afghans or Iraqis. In Turkey, they are at mercy. They're allowed into mercy, and they're allowed to stay on mercy. With winter cold and tighter border guarding that makes the journey even more dangerous, the number of people trying to get into the EU will decrease. But a great many people are now coming to Greece. Many people are stuck in Greece because the Balkan countries have introduced rules that will stop anyone who cannot prove that they are Afghans, Syrians or Iraqis. At the same time, Denmark says that it will do all it can to reduce the number of refugees who come to Denmark or who are allowed to stay there. In Finland, all asylum trials have been frozen so that more people can be expelled. In country by country in the EU, border guards and rules are introduced that allow refugees to seek elsewhere. Sweden was the good example for a long time. That was the example that people in other countries could use to demand that their countries take greater responsibility and accept more. It was the country that stood up at every summit for people's right to seek shelter and shaved their backs, demanding that others do more. With the changes in asylum legislation requested by the government, it is now gone. We have now entered into the cynical game in which country after country pushes the refugees elsewhere. The worst of the proposals is the identification requirements that the government now wants to process quickly through the Riksdag. That might sound like a reasonable thing. I guess it's good if we know who's in the country. But the thing is that people without valid ID documents are deprived of the opportunity to apply for asylum in Sweden. That's the truth of the proposal. This means that he who was on his way home from work and was told that Al-Asad's forces had occupied his house where the passport was no longer allowed in. The one who managed to escape from a Daesh terrorist, is it really strange that she didn't manage to get the passport with her? These are all the children who have been born in Iran by Afghan parents on the run, all those who did not request any ID documents, many of them women and children, or those who have had their passports stolen through Europe by criminal gangs and traffickers. They will no longer be allowed in. At the same time, the government's representatives, the people who make up the government, claim that they are protecting the right of asylum, now that they are doing everything possible to put obstacles in the way of the most vulnerable, when refugees are now being referred to another deadly boat trip, another trip tied up under a truck and even more long hikes through forests and over mountains. They protect the right of asylum. We need a breathing room say some, a half-level in order to recover a little. We need to train more social security officers and SFI teachers and have time to build more housing. First, we need to focus on swallowing away all those who have already arrived. Then maybe, at some point, we can let more in. Yes, by Swedish standards, the situation is strained. In a country where, year after year, demands have been increased, standards raised and bureaucratic systems built for everything, there will be contradictions when reality no longer fits into the template. I would ask you to consider just one thing: what would happen if Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey were to demand breathing space? What would happen if they put a stop to the border with Syria? What would happen then? That's where we're going. Everything is connected, and we have a great responsibility in this, just like everyone else. What we need to think about is what role you want to play in this. Anyone who believes that it is easy and humane to stop people fleeing has poor track of both history and our present. Yesterday in the integration debate, I stood here and talked about how we can change the systems so that more people can support themselves, so that housing can be built, so that sleeping places can be found, so that conflicts can be minimized and so that costs can be reduced. There's a lot to take care of. But now I'm standing here, and I'm appealing. I appeal to you, and I appeal to everyone who listens out there: don't do this! Please don't do this. Don't split up families. Do not expose people to even greater risks and even more suffering. Don't let Sweden go this way! I'm not saying we're gonna help everyone in the world. All I'm saying is that we shouldn't push them back to what they're trying to escape with all their power.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-52	Mr President, I would like to Johanna Jönsson mentioned in her speech that everything is connected. That's exactly what I want to focus on: everything is connected. What, then, is Johanna Jönsson trying to reach out with in her talk about the right of asylum? Who really has the right to seek asylum? Of course, a fugitive should have the right to seek asylum. However, with the right of asylum, there is no right to choose the country of asylum. As everything is connected, just as Johanna Jönsson said, you also have to think long-term. What gives Johanna Jönsson the right to give privileges in some way to those who have economic and other opportunities to get to Sweden instead of to the people in refugee camps? In what way are they allowed to take priority in the queue?
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-55	Mr President, I would like to Markus Wiechel just said: Of course you should have the right to apply for asylum. In my speech, I said that you do not have the right to apply for asylum in Turkey, among others, as you yourself are aware because you were on the journey there. This is already interesting – you think it's obvious but still refer to the area where you don't have that right. The important thing at this point is that the people who can't stay in their home country-- because that's what it's all about, and you agree-- have somewhere to go where they have the opportunity to build a new life. It is not a question of being kept only year after year and of one's children losing all opportunities. They can't go to school, and they don't have a future. People are not entitled to medical care, and they barely have food for the day. They're being stored. It doesn't make sense. This means that we, several countries, need to help. We're gonna share that responsibility. This is what it is all about. When you say that we should make sure to help in the neighbourhood and talk about the first country of asylum – which is interesting when you can't apply for asylum – do you mean that Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon should take care of everyone? They're supposed to keep them all to keep you out of these. That's what it's all about, and I don't support it. I do not support it, and I do not think it is right. I believe that when it is war and conflict that means that people do not have a home country, we all need to share it. The basic thing is that you can seek shelter, not that you get everything else. What is important is that you can seek protection, and that you can be somewhere in the world where there is a rule of law that protects you from dying. That is what it is about; that is the fundamental thing about the right of asylum that you yourself have just said you are protecting.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-59	Mr President, I would like to Both Johanna Jönsson and I were in Turkey. Then Johanna Jönsson should have listened to what was said there. Turkey is making a huge contribution to humanity. They receive a lot of people fleeing from various conflicts. However, Turkey is not receiving enough support today. Why? Because so many countries around the world focus only on themselves. Money is spent on refugee reception in Sweden, for example. These are people who may have been in Lebanon or Turkey for a few years and have lived there in safety. Then they choose to come here. Why? Because their children are not entitled to school. They are not entitled to school due to a lack of resources in the neighbourhood. Instead, Johanna Jönsson and others say that they are welcome to Sweden. Here they can live in tents and possibly get some school. However, people who do not have enough money to make their way to northern Europe are completely ignored. It's not humane, Johanna Jönsson.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-61	Mr President, I would like to I'm going to take a deep breath first. Turkey cannot provide schools because they lack resources," says Markus Wiechel. You know there are resources there; you saw that for yourself when we were there. That you don't understand the foreign policy game in this I find quite interesting and quite naive, to be honest. However, that does not belong in this particular discussion. In any case, it has now been said that Turkey will have more resources. That's good. We will see what happens to those resources, where they go and how this affects the situation of the refugees who are going quite badly in Turkey. You mean they would have lived in security there and had a good time and then suddenly say: No, we go to Europe instead! Come on, Markus, please! You know it doesn't look like it. People live on the street in Turkey. They don't get any support. If you don't live in tent camps, which only about 10 percent do, you don't have a school and no medical care, and you don't get access to medicines. You don't get any support for housing or working, for that matter. There is no way to build a life, and that is exactly the same in Lebanon. This is not a future, it is to keep people. What do you think gives you the right to decide what's best for these people? What gives you the right to say that they should not seek a better future? It is not about them having access to everything you have as a Swedish citizen. But you're gonna make them stay in a tent camp with no future. What gives you that right? There are a huge number of proposals. I've put out a lot of stuff. It is a question of billions of savings in costs. You know there's money in the system. It is clear that we need to reduce costs. They're sky-high, and that's completely unreasonable. But you don't have any reasonable suggestions about that, except to try to keep people away.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-65	Mr President, I would like to The debate today is a little different from it often is when we discuss a field of expenditure, talk about the budget and bump and wet the various economic proposals we have. It has happened and happens a lot both in the world and in Sweden. Apart from what is clearly happening in Europe when the Dublin Regulation has fallen, when Schengen is basically also falling, and when country after country closes its borders and pushes people away on the run, something has also happened in Sweden. In recent months we have seen and heard proposals that span different ways of closing borders and closing borders, abolishing the right to asylum, creating detention camps to keep people away. We also need to focus on this today in the debate. At a time when historically many are on the run and Sweden is of course also part of this world, some of the 60 million people who are on the run will go to Europe and Sweden. We all know very well that the vast majority are in the immediate region, in Turkey, Jordan and so on. But we also know that some of them have gone to Sweden and that Sweden has taken a great deal of responsibility in relation to the rest of Europe. In some municipalities, especially in the municipalities of arrival, it is in Swedish measured tough. It is strained, yes, but in other municipalities there is no crisis at all, but on the contrary, there is actually room and resources left. Mr President, I would like to What, then, does the government choose to do and say when people on the run need us most? Is it said the obvious and necessary, namely that we will never abandon human rights? Is it said that we will meet this challenge with Sweden's very best sides as we have done historically – well organised and solidarity with investments in welfare and in the people who come here? Are we saying that the EU has now failed to do this, but that we will not be pressured to abandon the right of asylum, but that we will instead hold back the membership fee until the other countries assume their responsibilities? Are we saying that we should support municipalities with resources and regulatory changes so that they can cope with this task and that together we should finally make the investments in housing and welfare that have been needed for so long? Are we saying that we now really need to give priority to more social secretaries, teachers and nurses in front of fancy bathroom renovations and profit withdrawals? No, that's not what the government says. The government chooses to be intimidated by words like system collapse and chaos. They say they need breathing space when people are on the run. They put welfare against human rights and rather close the borders of those who need protection than build our society bigger. They choose to create increased insecurity by giving temporary residence permits, dividing families and putting those who depend on the job for their life in Sweden against those who are not. They agree to allow the EU to bribe Turkey which consistently violates human rights, allows IS to sell oil and bomb its Kurdish population, all to keep refugees away. That, Mr President, is not a failure of the system, it is an ideological collapse. All over Sweden volunteers, municipalities and authorities are fighting to solve this. Social Secretary, Teacher, Migration Officer and Police are doing what they can, but it is time to focus on how we can support and improve that work. Everything else is a betrayal of them. Let's develop accommodation both in the short and long term. In Bromölla, the municipality has developed 200 places that are still not used, despite the current situation in Malmö. There are quite a few such examples. By letting the municipalities be responsible for finding places, we could very easily increase capacity. We need to make a historic investment in housing construction through both modular building, reconstruction and government credit guarantees. There have always, Mr President, been those who felt that breathing space was needed and that the border was reached. They say that now that people are fleeing Asad's thin bombs and IS rapes. They said that when Jews from Germany needed protection from the pogroms. They said so when people fled the genocide of the nationalists in Bosnia. History has judged them very harshly. Why should we listen to them now? Instead, listen to all of us who are prepared every day to meet people on the run with solidarity and a place among us. Enough breathing space and panic. Let's make a difference instead.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-75	Mr President, I would like to Christina Höj Larsen does not want to give Swedish people and our society breathing space. She continues with the old usual to throw the epithet at those who have warned of the situation that we are facing today and that Christina Höj Larsen has no solution to. It is easy for a left-wing party to stand and promise everything to everyone, but it is not at all serious. There is no funding, and you betray basic principles that I thought belonged to a typical left-wing approach, that is, you let relatively wealthy migrants go ahead in gender, just as I said earlier to Johanna Jönsson. Why should the Left Party maintain a policy where those who benefit most are those who have money and can get all the way to Sweden? Those who have no choice but to sit in refugee camps, who have children who lose two or three years of schooling and who may need food but do not get it because the UN does not have enough money. In what way is this left-wing policy?
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-79	Mr President, I would like to As Johanna Jönsson very clearly showed, people do not have the opportunity to apply for asylum in Turkey. Since we were all in Turkey, it was clear to us that it was not a question of resources but of willingness to create a proper reception. Now the European Union will pay Erdo中an and Turkey to keep people away. And we know that Turkey allows IS, which keeps a region in fear, to sell oil. I wonder, of course, from what I have heard the SD say about terrorism and instability in the region, what you think about it. Do you really think we should help and support a regime that at the same time allows IS to continue growing?
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-82	Mr President, I would like to I cannot be clear enough that I share all the criticisms that have been made against Turkey. I personally have asked many different questions about Turkey's actions against refugees, but above all against the Kurdish population. I am very critical of this, and I believe that the government should put much more pressure on Turkey and try to promote human rights in that region too. Not all refugees flee Turkey, and not all refugees in this part of the world are vulnerable. Since then, few are particularly well off, but we will try to improve their opportunities by strengthening the role of the UN in the region and ensuring that there is money to be able to offer schooling, pressure Turkey to perhaps offer work permits and improve the situation of refugees so that they can have a good life like the rest of us. Every day 1,400 children die because they have nothing as simple as clean water. This doesn't matter to the Left Party. Instead, they are keen to defend what they call the right of asylum for people who have actively chosen to come to Sweden. This doesn't make any sense. One cannot focus on providing support to people who have reached safety in front of people who are at risk of dying because they do not have anything as simple as clean water.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-85	Mr President, I would like to I'll explain to Markus Wiechel what this doesn't add up to. Of course, with aid, we must support long-term positive developments in quite large parts of the world. We also need to ensure that people in the UNHCR camp are well off. But – this is important – not all of the world's refugees will be able to stay in the neighbourhood. It is not physically possible to create a life there. We see very well what that life means. You don't have school, you don't have food for the day. That's not possible. Many countries need to do a lot of things. And that is precisely the final step that SD cannot or does not want to understand. You are prepared – absolutely – to pay to others, as long as people do not come here. But that is precisely the part that we must also stand for, Markus Wiechel. This will not go together with a bourgeois economic policy that SD favors and supports. I can't. You can't give priority to fancy bathroom renovations instead of what needs to be done in welfare. But that's exactly what you're doing. Every time you face a choice, you choose to benefit those who already have and not those who do not. That doesn't make any sense. That's not possible. But with another economic policy it is quite possible. And that's what we're gonna stand for. In the meantime, of course, you can pretend you care.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-91	Mr President, I would like to In our surrounding world there are wars, conflicts and persecution. Some 60 million people are fleeing their homelands, mainly because of wars and conflicts, but also because of political conviction, religion, sexual orientation or ethnicity. A small proportion of these refugees make their way to Europe, and an even smaller proportion come to Sweden to seek asylum. We Liberals defend the right of asylum and want Sweden to be an open and tolerant country. The refugee crisis is, above all, a crisis for those people who are forced to flee. But when as many as 10 000 a week go to Sweden, the Swedish reception is also in a crisis situation. In these difficult times, action, political responsibility and leadership are required. We must be able to make difficult, tough decisions while keeping our heads cool. The Liberals stand by the agreement reached on 23 October. As an EU country, together with other EU countries, we have a responsibility to uphold the right to asylum. It is clear that more EU countries must shoulder their responsibilities. We Liberals have long stressed the importance of the EU taking joint responsibility for asylum seekers. It's more important than ever when this many are on the run. We believe that Sweden should continue to push for a lasting solution, so that the number of asylum seekers can be distributed more evenly among the EU countries. Like the EU countries, the municipalities of Sweden must share responsibility jointly and severally. Refugee reception is a national responsibility and responsibility must be shared. Today, there are municipalities that assume their responsibilities and more. Unfortunately, there are also municipalities that do not contribute to the same extent. It's not okay, we think. We therefore believe that the state should be able to impose responsibilities on the municipalities, and they should not be able to get away from this. We also propose increased support for those municipalities that accept responsibility and accept new arrivals. Unfortunately, the government wants to abolish performance-based compensation for municipalities that take more responsibility than others. Instead, the Liberals want to see a system that includes both reformed performance-based support and increased flat-rate compensation per new arrival. Accommodation is today central. A great deal of asylum reception requires new, fast and creative solutions. All accommodations must be surveyed. There is a need for a more efficient organisation and more housing facilities at a reasonable price. When I meet people, I often hear that we politicians have to do more. I usually ask the question: What have you done to help when this many people come to our country? If we are to meet this challenge, we must not forget that civil society is of great importance and is the key to integration. Incredibly many associations, organisations and individuals are making enormous efforts to ensure that these people who are on the run get a good start in Sweden. A few weeks ago I visited Ekenässjön Missionary Church. Lake Ekenässjön is a small community outside Vetlanda in the highlands of Småland. One evening a week, the mission church is open to asylum seekers living in the community. They get to come there and have coffee, talk, get help with learning Swedish and filling out forms. In the meantime, babysitting is offered so that the parents can get some time of their own. The inhabitants of the community have donated clothing that is distributed to the visitors. Winter clothes and shoes are very much awaited as asylum seekers often do not have warm clothes and the compensation they receive is sufficient for the most necessary. All efforts are needed. It can be anything from giving the winter jacket that just hangs and collects dust in the closet to opening your home and becoming a family home for an unaccompanied refugee child. All these efforts are valuable. I'd like to take this opportunity to thank everyone who's engaged. They're doing an amazing job. I am in favour of reservation 5 and I refer to the specific opinion of the Liberals.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-101	Mr President, I would like to I've been curious about one thing for a long time. Liberals are and have always been an EU-friendly party, with Europe in focus. Now we can see that the European Union is completely incapable of resolving this situation. The EU lacks the ability to agree on a distribution, a good reception – that kind of thing. However, the EU can easily agree on restrictions, on borders, on closing out and on paying money to Turkey. That kind of thing is easy. In the end, however, when it comes to granting asylum to people, it seems very difficult in a European context. Emma Carlsson Löfdahl tells us that we must have a better distribution. How on earth do the Liberals think it's going to happen? Let's call it a day, shall we? What tools are in the toolbox? I'd like to hear more about that.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-104	Mr President, I would like to What Christina Höj Larsen says is absolutely right. Liberals are an EU-friendly party. We believe in European cooperation. We believe in open borders and in a Europe that unites us. In all collaborations you have to give and take. You have to negotiate, and you have to help each other. We have been pushing for a long time to ensure that all EU countries take responsibility. We've come a little bit along the way. I'm not saying we've come all the way. But I believe that more and more EU countries are waking up. They realize that we need to be helped to protect all these people who are fleeing war and persecution.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-106	Mr President, I would like to I think Emma Carlsson Löfdahl sees a completely different Europe from the rest of us, I must say. What I am seeing right now is not a Europe that has come a bit on its way, but I see a Europe where country after country closes its borders and refuses to do anything that should be done. In addition, militarisation is being helped to keep refugees away even at the external border. I find it very difficult to reconcile it with a belief in open borders. I find it very difficult to reconcile it with what has also been part of the identity of the Liberals in relation to the right of asylum. These things aren't connected. The EU has a very well-developed system to keep Member States in check with regard to economic policy. Greece is a good example of this. But the EU is completely incapable of upholding human rights and of getting countries to stick to what they have promised. That's what we're seeing now. If an association does not deliver what you agree on, then you should not pay the membership fee. That is what we propose now. We have to put pressure behind the words. I wonder, of course, what one as a liberal feels when it is not the way it has been agreed in EU cooperation. But I hope that's the case, because you should never be happy with this.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-110	Mr President, I would like to The fact that the Liberals and the Left Party have different views on what is happening in the EU and how it looks there is nothing new. We have always had different angles of entry into EU cooperation. But I can agree with Christina Höja Larsen that the EU sometimes has poor means of sanctioning those countries that do not comply with what has been agreed. I believe that the best way to work on this is to continue European cooperation and work to move forward. We will not succeed better if we leave the European Union and are not part of European cooperation. When we are together and working together, it is then that we have an opportunity to influence so that it all goes forward.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-113	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 4 in the report. As many of the speakers have said here before, this is a rather strange debate on the budget bill's expenditure category 8, Migration. Both the international situation and the political field have changed radically only in the two months that have passed since the parties presented their budgets. It is, of course, essential that, in addition to the texts of the documents presented in September October, we relate to what has happened since then. As a new member of Parliament's Social Security Committee and on migration issues, I would like to begin by commenting on the international situation. There is a humanitarian crisis in the world. War, oppression, Islamic terror groups and persecution of ethnic and religious groups cause people to flee. Today, over 60 million people are on the run within and from their country. Many seek refuge in our continent. The refugee situation that Europe is currently experiencing has had no equivalent since the Second World War. Sweden has for a long time been one of the countries that most people have gone to, and so it is now. Never before in modern times has Sweden received so many help seekers in such a short time. We have taken greater responsibility than any other country in Europe and the West. During the crisis, we have seen a wave of humanity in Sweden: social security secretary, migration handlers e, police officers, pastors, priests, imams and volunteers. Many have shown a strong commitment to helping people in need. It fills us Christian Democrats with confidence and strengthens our faith in man's inherent ability to do good and to contribute to a good society. But, Mr President, today's situation also presents us with challenges that we cannot yet fully assess the consequences of. The Christian Democrats' starting point is to protect the right of asylum. Sweden has a moral responsibility to help fellow humans in need. We also want to safeguard transparency and freedom of movement within the EU. At the same time, it is a fact that the common principles of regulated migration within the EU have in principle been put at risk. The external border controls of the Schengen area are not fully maintained. In principle, there is no registration on entry. Many of the conditions on which the Swedish asylum reception system is based do not apply today. The situation in the municipalities is very strained. There is an acute shortage of accommodation sites. Several authorities are alerting about an unsustainable work situation. One consequence of this is, unfortunately, that we now need to reduce the pressure on Sweden and on the Swedish asylum reception system by getting fewer people to come here and more to go to other EU countries. Mr President, I would like to Last December, we proposed Christian Democrats temporary residence permits as the main rule for all asylum seekers, a faster process of rejection of asylum seekers from so-called safe countries and lower establishment allowances combined with lower taxes for new arrivals working. The purpose of these proposals was to reduce the costs of the Swedish reception of refugees. Today the situation is quite different from what it was at the time. It goes without saying that more measures therefore need to be taken. As it seems, most of Parliament's parties agree. The resulting situation has caused the political playing field to change quite radically. In a first stage, six parties of the Riksdag – including the Christian Democrats – joined forces on 21 measures to improve the ability of Swedish reception of asylum seekers, but also to strengthen the establishment of new arrivals. This was positive, but it was still not enough. As the situation worsened further, the government held press conferences telling us that the ceiling for the number of asylum seekers that Sweden can receive was reached, after which they thanked for the floor without presenting any further proposals that corresponded to the problem picture. It was a rather strange thing to do because it added to the concerns of the public and the feeling that many people have, that politics is not capable of action at a time as if something requires just initiative and determination. Now the government seems to have changed its strategy, and last week there were signs of action. We from the Christian Democrats welcome that initiative and share the focus on the proposals that the government has presented. Some measures are in line with what we have presented in the past. Other proposals go a little further and some still think we are missing. For example, it is no secret that we from the Christian Democrats are safeguarding the possibility of family reunification. We find it strange that the government is putting forward measures that restrict that possibility before other urgent proposals. For example, we have proposed the establishment of asylum application areas or transit zones near the major border crossing points in order to speed up registration and decision-making processes and prevent new arrivals from deviating. We have also put forward proposals to speed up and streamline the expulsion of persons who have been refused asylum applications. Mr President, I would like to To conclude, I would like to say that, in the long term, the question of asylum seekers to Europe will need to be dealt with at European level. Now we need to start discussing integration in Sweden in a completely different way from what we have done in the past. Although it turns out that the proposals put forward by the government to reduce the pressure on asylum against Sweden have a major impact, we face a huge challenge in the area of integration where large amounts of pragmatism will be needed and where the possibility of asserting ideological principles will be very limited.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-128	Mr President, I would like to Every time we have handed society over to the bourgeoisie – now for eight years at the latest – you return it in a rather frail state, fragile, vulnerable and insecure. When you take over a stable brick house, you leave a straw house back, a straw house overturning at the slightest storm, overturning if there are more refugees or if there are more unemployed. It just can't handle change. If you cut taxes by 140 billion and let welfare bleed profits every day, something will happen to society. It's not going to be as stable. It won't be as durable. The social secretaries were on their knees even before the refugee disaster, for you certainly left no breathing space behind in your welfare. Yet you are now pretending that it is the refugee disaster that has somehow suddenly destroyed society. It's very strange. Social secretaries, teachers, police officers, administrators and people in health care struggle every day to make it work, and then you pretend you have no guilt in that the straw house you built is blowing away.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-132	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. I must say that I do not agree with the description of reality expressed by the Left Party here. When the alliance government handed over power to the red-green government just over a year ago, Sweden was in good shape. Outsiders had decreased, and more money than ever before went to welfare. It cannot be said that it was a weak Sweden that was handed over, on the contrary. Mr President, I have the greatest confidence and humility in the work of social secretaries in Sweden and the work they are facing. However, I think it is unrealistic, as the Left Party does, to say that the current refugee situation does not have an effect on their working situation; it is really the case with the working situation of all the authorities. On behalf of the Christian Democrats, in order to strengthen welfare, we want to continue to pursue a policy of getting more people into work. This is how we can increase tax revenues to Sweden. That is how we simply get more money to spend on welfare and more space to develop the quality of it.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-135	Mr President, I would like to What I'm saying is not that the refugee disaster would not have affected our society. What I'm saying is that a straw house is not as stable as a brick house. If you collect as much money as you did, Aron Modig, and redistribute from welfare, from the common, to the private, there will be consequences, and some of them we see now. But you'll never be able to say that, because every time the KD gets to choose between social secretary and fancy bathroom renovations, you'll choose the latter. If you are allowed to choose between interest payments for those who already have and housing construction, you choose the interest payment. Surely that is why you are also choosing to propose something as unworthy as detention camps for people waiting to apply for asylum. It must be that in the choice between changing and redistributing you will always choose the side of the wealthy. I do not think that this is the right to asylum.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-138	Mr President, I would like to I think it is unserious of the Left Party to think that we are proposing things that we are not proposing. In order to strengthen well-being, when we have the opportunity to re-govern Sweden, we will continue to pursue a policy of getting more people into work. That is how we can increase tax revenues and increase the chances of developing welfare. Last year, when the Alliance Government handed over power to the Red Green Government, more money was spent on welfare than ever before. Today, the Left Party has a great deal of influence over politics, too much. If they had gained even greater influence, we would have had a policy that would have led to even fewer jobs, even worse economies and even worse opportunities to develop the quality of welfare. It would provide nothing but even worse conditions for social secretaries to do their important work.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-140	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has in the worst refugee situation since the Second World War taken on more responsibility than most other countries in the Western world. Our country defends the right of international asylum. We are a small country that makes a huge contribution, where people show great solidarity at a difficult time – every day. Employees at the Migration Agency have worked and work day and night to register people, find beds and ensure that everyone gets food for the day and, of course, examines applications. Volunteers have made and are making invaluable efforts. Municipalities around the country are fantastically successful in obtaining temporary accommodation, making evacuation sites available, receiving children at school and much more. What has been carried out and carried out is the largest refugee operation in Sweden's history. After the summer, the number of refugees seeking asylum in Sweden has increased sharply, and just in recent months, 80 000 people have applied for asylum in Sweden. Of them, so many are children and young people that it corresponds to over a hundred new school classes each week. Authorities and municipalities now find it difficult to cope with the effort. Municipalities lex Sarah report themselves because they can no longer manage their reception safely. The Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency warns that important societal functions are not able to cope with the effort. Unfortunately, Sweden can no longer guarantee a roof over its head for all those who seek our country. People have also been forced to sleep outdoors. The other day we could hear Save the Children alert that the reception centre of the Migration Agency at Malmömässan is hazardous to health, especially for children. In the acute situation Malmömässan is used as accommodation for up to 1,000 refugees. The intention is that they should be in the premises for a very short time, before they are registered as asylum seekers and passed on, but times have unfortunately become longer and longer. It is an untenable situation both for those seeking asylum and for the staff involved. At the same time, the reception capacity shall be improved. Many municipal activities are under strain or face great trials. These include social services, school and trauma care. Another major challenge is to meet the needs of the rapidly growing population for housing. This requires continued and even greater efforts than those currently planned. The situation of refugees needs to be dealt with jointly within the European Union, as has been mentioned earlier in the debate. The government will therefore continue to push for a system in which all countries take joint responsibility for the reception of refugees. The government also wants the Dublin Regulation to be revised and replaced by a new permanent redistribution system in the EU. Mr President, I would like to The starting point is that Sweden should have a humane asylum policy and be a haven for those fleeing persecution and oppression. We note, however, that developments, largely driven by external factors, can be difficult to predict and influence. Sweden and Europe are in the midst of a huge task of giving safe lives to people fleeing war, persecution and oppression. In this situation, and in view of the significant increase in the number of asylum seekers in Sweden, the challenge for the Swedish asylum system is very great. The residence periods of the Finnish Immigration Service's residential accommodation for persons who have been granted a residence permit are increasing. This means that places for new asylum seekers are not released, while the influx is increasing. In this serious situation, the government and the four bourgeois parties agreed, by an agreement in October, on the necessary efforts to ensure the ability of Swedish reception of asylum seekers and to strengthen the establishment of new arrivals. The agreement concerns a number of the issues raised in the motions dealt with in the report. With regard to the housing of unaccompanied minors, which is mentioned in several motions, the committee notes that the government intends to introduce a new form of placement, so-called assisted housing. A draft supplementary amending budget for 2015 was submitted in November. There, funds are allocated to municipalities with SEK 11 billion. The majority are provided as temporary support to municipalities and county councils to deal with the current refugee situation. Refugee reception is a shared responsibility for the whole of society. When all municipalities assume their responsibilities, the labour market conditions, the size of the population, the overall reception and the extent of asylum seekers become more fair and solidarity-based. If this is also a proposal to improve the establishment of new arrivals in the labour market and in society throughout Sweden. Mr President, I would like to We all know that the situation of refugees is being discussed everywhere, and the whole of society is involved. While we are debating here, I have a group from my municipality of residence visiting whom I should have actually guided here in Parliament. They are studying Swedish at high school in my municipality and are currently receiving a democracy orientation here in Parliament. Tomorrow, when I get home, I will be on Sports Night, which is organized by among others my football club LFK. I know that there will be many refugee children, because it is open to everyone and free of charge. This is not unique to me, but it is what it looks like to most people in society: you take part of the responsibility. When the Prime Minister visited Skaraborg a few weeks ago, he met doctors who worked on what they were trained for – fortunately, one might say, because it could be much better establishment in the labour market. However, since a lot of work has been done in the Västra Götaland region, doctors can enter the labour market there relatively quickly. And that's what it looks like around Sweden: Everyone is and should be involved to help each other to make everyday life better for those who come. Sometimes it may sound as though the borders are closed, but last week 6,100 asylum seekers — women, men, girls and boys — arrived. Sweden takes a great responsibility, and of course we think that we should continue to do so.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-156	Mr President, I would like to This is a rather strange budget discussion. We have a budget which, if you are going to be a little more than the 2009 budget, is as topical. At that rate, I think we've passed the fall. However, it has been supplemented both by the agreement with the Alliance and by a proposal from the government last week. However, we Moderates do not believe that this is enough, and that is why we are arguing that we may need to interpret the Dublin Regulation a little more strictly. I understand that the government is not really making that assessment. My question to Carina Ohlsson is then: When is the limit reached? When can Sweden not cope with the accumulation of asylum seekers? It has gone down a little bit, but in the last week there have been 5 679 people who have come. If you take it out in a year, it'll be 295,000. What assessment do you make of when the border is reached? And how will this affect our welfare? We're getting signs of a lack of treatment centres and a lack of school places. Municipalities and authorities testify that they are under tremendous pressure. If you do not like the solution that we propose for when the limit is reached, what do you propose?
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-160	Mr President, I would like to What if someone could answer unambiguously when the limit is reached? I do not think there is an answer. That depends on what limit you mean, Mikael Cederbratt-- is it a limit in number, is it border protection? Is that the limit of welfare for us in Sweden, or is it the limit of how many Europe should receive? I do not think that these proposals, which have been discussed this past week, should have come earlier. Now the authorities and municipalities have said that they cannot do this right now. However, I think that we need to do even more to ensure that the temporary proposals that we put forward are not permanent but temporary. We can do much more in society. It is about education, for example. We have talked about that there are too few teachers. There'd be more to it. There would be a need for more social security officers. So I do not see a distinct limit, but things are going to happen in the meantime that will enable us to maintain well-being, and that will apply to the welfare of all, both children of asylum seekers and society as a whole.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-164	Mr President, I would like to I thank Carina Ohlsson for her reply. I think Sweden needs a break, both for the welfare and for the reception system. I take Carina Ohlsson's answer as saying that limit has not been reached. Then my question is again: when that limit is reached, what would you suggest? The talks leading up to the October agreement were conducted in rather constructive and good forms. But the signals I'm getting now about the talks that have at least been going on – they're hardly going on right now – are about being very locked when it comes to being sensitive to proposals coming from those who are outside the government. Then I simply ask: are you prepared to continue to hold talks with the opposition?
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-167	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mikael Cederbratt, for the questions. I understand that there is also a desire on these issues for us to continue discussing each other's proposals. Of course we will. Then I find it difficult to discuss the tone of the talks that are being held because I have not participated in those talks myself. I don't think Mikael Cederbratt has done it either. This is a difficult issue for society as a whole. As I mentioned in several points in my speech, everyone needs to be involved. Then it is clear that you should look at all the suggestions. Then there may be some proposals that you do not think are good, and that is how you can behave whether you belong to the opposition or the government. Some of the proposals that have been made by the government over the last few weeks, I think the Moderates also think are good. The reception itself is a part, but at the same time you have to work with establishment and involvement in society. It is also about education. This is important in order to have confidence that we can do this together. It takes trust to do as much as you can. There's still a lot to do. It would also have been good if we had been more prepared together. Several of the speakers here have raised this point, and I agree. This could involve, for example, the need for more people in welfare who are trained to face this difficult crisis and those seeking asylum.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-172	Mr President, I would like to A lot of the proposals that have now come from the Social Democrats go against what I thought we shared, namely international solidarity and the recognition that insecurity cannot be built on. Apparently, I was wrong about that. Above all, I would like to talk about the ID requirement. When, next week, the government will be putting forward proposals on ID requirements for trains and buses, this means that you will deny people the right to seek asylum. That's how it is. When you talk about it, you say that it is to pressure other countries to accept. But we now see that Denmark is preparing exactly the same thing at the German border at the same time. The domino effect is on, and those who will pay the price are people on the run. They're going to have to hire smugglers and choose dangerous roads. We saw reports yesterday about the first boat with refugees across the Baltic Sea. What the government does in many ways worsens the situation. For example, the government has made it clear that it wants all asylum seekers to be registered in Malmö. We hear from Malmömässan how bad it works. It's completely unworthy. But at the same time there are places in Bromölla, just nearby. They are not used even though the situati onen in Malmö is as incredibly bad as it is. Of course, what do you think as a government party about this? The proposals you make really restrict the right of asylum. And what you do actually results in this becoming much harder to handle.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-177	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I must say to Christina Höj Larsen that the proposals that have been made also pain me. It is not because of my own situation, but because of what people on the run face. Nevertheless, I would like to admit that I agree with this. At the same time, there are reports from authorities, municipalities and others that they are unable to cope with this situation. Then it is an attempt by the government to find a balance in this. It is about seeking cooperation with other parties and, of course, about raising the issue in the EU and protecting it while safeguarding international asylum law. This isn't easy to solve. How are we going to solve this? The proposals that come in this context come from the whole context. Then, of course, you can look at each individual proposal. It also pains me to have to resort to such methods for the individual people. It is ultimately about the people fleeing crisis, conflict and war. At the same time, those who will have to meet with dignity and good reception. The welfare society that we have, as many have talked about, must include everyone. It is a balance that must prevail. There are many who have talked about the situation of refugees in Turkey, that they are not right and are not able to attend school, and so on. We must ensure that those who come to Sweden receive a dignified and good reception. When the collaboration does not work, we must point to it, as Christina Höj Larsen lifts up. It's about municipalities of arrival and other things.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-182	Mr President, I would like to I would like to say as a matter of urgency that what has happened recently is exacerbating the situation – to be honest. I cannot say that a worthy reception is a crowded exhibition hall in Malmö, where people sleep on concrete floors and do not have access to toilets. It's not that. And that is the result of you, Carina Ohlsson, saying: Everyone must apply here. Instead, you could spread the reception and talk about how we make things work. If childbirth doesn't work, we don't say people don't have to give birth. That's kind of not how we usually solve welfare challenges. If you want to talk about how to get government, welfare and all the important things to work is a tip that you should seek out parties that are really interested in welfare and not just let in bourgeois labour market policy. I think that would be much-needed. But I am very interested to know: How do the Social Democrats think you can get a better reception, where people do not have to sleep on concrete floors? This can be solved. There are places in municipalities right next door. It has to be solved. It has to be resolved today.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-186	Mr President, I would like to Clearly, living in that environment for days at a time is not worthy nor can it be healthy. If it had been a night or two nights, it would have been another thing, but that's not what it looks like. It is a responsibility for us as politicians. We need to help resolve those situations. These things piled up on each other. This means that there are shortcomings in communication between different actors in society. This applies to both authorities and municipalities. In this case, municipalities are also authorities. That is what we need to find solutions to. It's hard when there's 10,000 a week or 8,000. This week it was 6,000. The pressures are very great for all social actors. If I had a solution to this, today I would do as Christina Höj Larsen wishes. Then I'd say, "Do this." Of course, we will take these questions with us. I'll meet the Commissioner in charge this afternoon. Of course, we will ask: how can this be solved? We hear several times that there are actors who say: We could receive. And yet it doesn't really work. Then there must be something in the communication chain that doesn't really work. We must remove the obstacles and create opportunities so that everyone who really wants to help in a spirit of solidarity can do so. Of course, we will also listen to the proposals of the Left Party.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-190	Mr President, I would like to It is this government and, to a large extent, the former that has caused the situation that we are now facing. This is something we could have predicted. Some of us have for a very long time predicted what it would look like. It is therefore gratifying that the government is now tightening up migration policy. That is something I welcome. The acceptance of SD proposals is particularly positive. But the fact is that the government has been very irresponsible. In fact, I have a rather simple question for Carina Ohlsson, who says she is protecting the protection of refugees: is it reasonable to take from the aid budget to pay for a living and other things for a person who has come from Denmark or Germany?
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-193	Mr President, I would like to Markus Wiechel places responsibility on the former government and this government; they are the ones who have caused the situation. Then we have completely different attitudes. Neither this nor the previous government has caused people to be on the run. It is wars and conflicts in countries from which people flee for their lives. That is what caused the situation. There we seem to have completely different attitudes. Both the previous government and this government uphold the right of asylum. When people flee from war and conflict, they must uphold the right of asylum. Then we will also do our utmost to meet people who are fleeing war and conflict. Then it is not the point of departure that Markus Wiechel has, that we should adopt the views of the Swedish democrats on these issues. We have completely different starting points. Of course, we think that everyone should be welcomed on equal terms, and the people who are here should be included in society. There I see that the Social Democrats and the Swedish Democrats have completely different ideological views.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-196	Mr President, I would like to If you look at the proposals, you can see that it is quite clear that we suddenly actually share views on certain issues. It's not against me – quite the opposite. But it is no coincidence that people choose Sweden. Why have seven or eight safe countries been passed? I did not receive an answer to the question as to whether it is reasonable to withdraw from the aid budget in order to fund the subsistence of a person who has crossed the Öresund Bridge. For me, it is totally unreasonable to do such a thing when, as we have heard earlier today, people are starving around the world because there is not enough support for the UN camp. If you now protect the right of asylum – so do the Swedish Democrats – you may also have to protect a legally secure system. What are Carina Ohlsson and the Social Democrats doing to enforce expulsion decisions? Today, thousands of people have received a rejection decision hiding in Sweden. Do Carina Ohlsson and the Social Democrats intend to try to ensure that they also leave our country? Last but not least: even the Social Democrats have realised that the border has long been reached in Sweden. Is it not the time for Sweden, like Denmark, to establish an active signal policy to reduce pressure in Sweden?
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-200	Mr President, I would like to Markus Wiechel says that we social democrats have long seen the limit reached. No, we haven't seen that at all. We are still upholding the right of asylum. Markus Wiechel asks if it is a coincidence that you see Sweden as a good country. No, it is not by chance, it is because we are doing a conscious ideological and democratic work for the rule of law with a democratic view of values and a good welfare system. It is not by chance that Sweden looks like it does, but it is entirely conscious that we have stood up for these values, and we shall continue to do so. That's what they call good politics.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-203	Mr President, I would like to Just as both Carina Ohlsson and several of the previous speakers have spoken about, the situation has changed considerably in the autumn and in recent times. It may then seem reasonable for political parties to respond to the new reality of new political proposals. We Christian Democrats have constantly tried to do this. We have proposed, among other things, temporary residence permits, a system of safe countries, a deduction of establishment, asylum applications, faster and more effective expulsions and the introduction of a crisis commission to look at the situation. At the same time, it has been very quiet from the government. As I said in my speech, press conferences have been held which have painted a very black picture of problems, but then there has been no action at all that has responded to this picture of problems. This is problematic, because I think it has added to the public's concerns. Instead, last week everything came at once when the Prime Minister and the spokesperson of the Green Party came forward with strong measures. I would simply like to ask: what is the plan for the future? Will it continue to be this way, or will the government continuously adjust its policies as reality changes?
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-207	Mr President, I would like to I don't really know where Aron Modig has been lately. As many have said, the figures in the report may not be in line with the reality that we will face next year, but there are proposals in that report that come from the government proposal. A month ago, 21 points were adopted, and then the Christian Democrats of Aron Modig were behind them. The other week there have also been proposals, something that I and Christina Höj Larsen were debated just now, because the Left Party thinks it was too strong a proposal. If Aron Modig believes that no proposals have been made, we have completely different realities. Then it may be that the Christian Democrats do not fully support the proposals that have been put forward by the government in the last week. But I think there's been some suggestions. If we look at the future, we will have to work very hard on this issue. Then it is also about what was debated yesterday, that is to say, establishing, implementing decisions taken and so on. It will work on this issue all the time, and we will probably meet both in discussions here in the speaker's chair and in other conversations, because this issue meets people every day in reality.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-212	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. But I think I'd still like to maintain my picture of reality. The 21 points given as an example were supported by six parties. After all, it was not the government that came up with these points. I think it is positive that Carina Ohlsson is addressing what is now about establishment and integration, because it will, of course, be an issue here in the future. This is a greater challenge, which I also mentioned in my speech. We have very many people who have come this year but even more who are enrolled in the Migration Agency's system. When we look at what it looks like in the start-up assignment today, we see that about 50 percent of those enrolled there have a maximum of primary school competence since before. If we are to meet the integration challenge that we are facing, and which we have to cope with, I think there will be a need for more jobs. We see what the government is proposing in this area. It is the increase in existing taxes, the introduction of new taxes, the deterioration of RUT deductions and housing subsidies that are at risk of reducing construction. And if you listen to Christina Höj Larsen from the Left Party in the line shifts, there will be no less of that product in the future. The Christian Democrats have proposed the creation of a crisis commission to turn every stone around, both in the area of migration and in the area of integration. I would therefore like to ask Carina Ohlsson: when will we see such a crisis com munication added, because that is a good thing? Every day that goes by is a lost day at the stage we are in right now.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-216	Mr President, I would like to I am not sure that more groups or authorities need to be set up to resolve this issue, which is extremely difficult and which everyone needs to be involved in. Perhaps we are talking about more cooperation and more about breaking borders, as we have heard several speakers in the debate. This can be about borders between municipalities or between countries, for example. It can also be about borders between authorities. I am therefore not sure that more authorities, crisis commissions or the like will be built up. Of course, some things happen at the same time, and more will happen. This involves, among other things, investing in education even when you are an asylum seeker. Aron Modig mentioned that if you don't have an education, maybe you don't know the Swedish language and maybe don't have a primary education, it's extremely important that you get the opportunity to start studying directly. As I said, there was guided around a group here from high school who are alone and refugee children and who are now going to read Swedish. Here they have an opportunity to discuss democracy with us MPs. That's how the whole community can be involved. I think it is more a question of breaking borders than of setting up new groups. Of course, we should also listen to each other's proposals, although not everyone will be accepted – but perhaps part of each other's proposals. It may still be more than has been done in the past. Nothing should be excluded, but conversations should continue, and you should also be able to turn and turn the proposals from the Riksdag and from other actors.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-219	Mr President, I would like to Soon we will leave an autumn behind that will go into history and change Sweden in many ways in the future. Although we in our country have had peace for more than 200 years, we may never have felt the brutal presence of war as we did this year. It is the war in Syria that continues to rage after several years of ongoing conflict, and it is the wars in Afghanistan, Iraq and Eritrea. In fact, we have never received as many as we have this year. It would not have been possible without the amazing people in our country who have welcomed people at central stations, who have worked at our authorities and worked day and night, who work in our schools to receive the children who come, who give clothes and toys to our new citizens. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is growing right now. In several parts of our country, new residents come to towns that have previously been characterised by emigration. Where there have previously been vacant apartments, it is for the first time the housing queue. One of these small communities is Kramfors, which is located in Västernorrland County. I visited them a little while ago, as I have visited many other municipalities around the country to draw inspiration for what we need to develop to establish those who come. About 18,000 people live there. Thanks to what has happened in the autumn, residents can keep one of their schools instead of closing it. The local grocery store has increased opening hours instead of closing during the weekends. Various activities are organised in several parts of the municipality to welcome the new residents. Instead of borrowing a book, you can borrow a new friend from the library. Language courses and different ways to welcome people are organised for the fullest by residents who have never before worked on these issues. It makes me proud and happy that we see this around Sweden. Whether there is much going on, and it will have to be done even more, we also need to talk about what has happened over the past week. This autumn, the number of asylum seekers has increased sharply. Because of this, the government has acted to create a temporary breathing space in the reception system and to increase the capacity of reception in the long term. At the same time, we know that when war goes on, breathing space cannot be created. We cannot create breathing space for the people who are on the run, and we cannot create breathing space for the families that are breaking up today. The Green Party in the government has had to make a decision that goes against our political convictions. The settlement of migration is undoubtedly the decision that has been the toughest to make for our party. We are also well aware of the terrible consequences that this decision has for the individuals concerned. It is a question of increasing insecurity as a result of temporary residence permits rather than permanent residence permits, and it is a very bad life for those families that will not now be united. You will never hear an environmental party say that the proposals are good. They are not good proposals for our country, and they are not good for the people affected. The individual measures proposed simply cannot be justified in substance. The fact that we have nevertheless agreed to the agreement is because we are absolutely convinced that with the political landscape we have in Sweden today, the alternative would have been considerably worse. This is probably my last debate as I am a substitute and soon leave Parliament. But I still have an appeal to all of you who are left in Parliament and to all active politicians who believe in an open Sweden. In the future, we need to put all our gunpowder into making sure to increase the capacity of the Swedish reception. The law is temporary and is valid for three years. Already after two years it will be a reconciliation point. Then there should be no doubt whatsoever that we can leave the legislation and return to the order we have had where all people can join their family and where we can have permanent residence permits as a general rule. I also want us to remind ourselves and each other why we have made this agreement. Let us remind ourselves that the people who flee are human beings. They are never big numbers, and they are not a threat to our society. They're people who need sanctuary. We should never accept the rhetoric of certain parties in our society and around Europe that portrays people as a threat. There are several things in the budget that I have to comment on. These are the decisions to be taken which, after all, are good, which are important and which we need more of. This is, for example, an extension of housing construction. More needs to be done here. It is also about money for municipalities and civil society, which has an important role in the establishment that is needed more of. These are increased stencils for municipalities and schools that accept asylum seekers' children. It is also a question of all municipalities having to accept the refugees who come to our country. Having said that, I am in favour of the proposal in the report.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-231	Mr President, I would like to After my party has been part of the basis of an alliance government for eight years, I think it is a strange statement that the government has understood the situation but that it goes against what one thinks. I had never expressed myself that way. This is my tenth migration debate. I've told you there should be a difference between a ja and a no. I understand that the government thinks so too. What does Magda Rasmusson intend to do to ensure that there are more readmission agreements? It is one of the important elements in order to get things right. Most acute is probably Afghanistan. I have looked at the proposals that came last week on the government's website. There is something about stricter supply requirements. How is it intended to be designed? Does Magda Rasmusson have any inside information?
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-234	Mr President, I would like to The first question the Moderates ask is about making it even harder for people to stay in Sweden is not really surprising given the political journey that the Moderates have made over the past year. There are several things the government does. One of the proposals was included in the six-party agreement that we jointly signed more than a month ago and which relates to the expulsion decisions. That is not something that my party had come forward with, but we made the agreement as part of a compromise. However, I would like to ask Mikael Cederbratt why we are only hearing proposals from the Moderates to make it more difficult for people to come here. Not a single negotiation that I have been in when the Moderates have been present has been about increased housing construction, how we get better Swedish education in our asylum accommodations and in SFI education or how we can receive more children better in school. How is it that the Moderates aim so unilaterally at trying to make it harder for people to come here instead of standing up for a humane refugee policy and enabling people to establish themselves in a good way in Sweden?
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-238	Mr President, I would like to I would say that we have driven integration issues intensively. Our foremost representative, Elisabeth Svantesson, would have reacted a little more than I did to the statement that we are not getting involved in these issues. That's where I'd say Magda Rasmusson is wrong. Then there was a comment that it would be more difficult to stay in Sweden. I interpret Magda Rasmusson so that there should be no difference between a yes and a no. If you have received a 'no', you have not met the criteria for requesting protection and staying. Shall I interpret Magda Rasmusson's statement as saying that you do not agree that there should be a difference between a yes and a no? In fact, I did not get an answer to any of the questions I asked. Nevertheless, I think that was the starting point because I had the opportunity to ask questions. It is free to return in the next line. Speaking of those who do not have the right to stay, there are 22 000 people, or cases, handed over to the police because they have not voluntarily left the country as required by the law. One of the most important tools in finding those who do not have the right to be here is internal foreigner control. I think it is important. Does Magda Rasmusson consider internal foreign control to be important?
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-242	Mr President, I would like to If Mikael Cederbratt asks the people who are expelled from Sweden, he will be told that there is a big difference between getting a yes or a no today. Living as paperless with a rejection decision is not an easy life. There's a difference, and there's a difference. Of course it is. If you put yourself into the six-party agreement that I mentioned, Mikael Cederbratt, you will see proposals that concern this too. I cannot avoid commenting on it again, I think, boring developments that we have seen in the moderate party. Not more than a year ago it had a party leader, Fredrik Reinfeldt, who was clear about his views on the right to asylum and what it means for Sweden to be an open country. Now I think I see a moderate party that puts more focus on only putting forward proposals aimed at reducing the number of people who come to Sweden but who do not come up with proposals to build capacity. I believe that the most important challenge for our society in the coming years will be the latter – to ensure that we can have a large reception system that receives the people who are fleeing the world today. I hope that the powers within your party that stand for it will be stronger.
i-66bUmnmLfV6unY26ro45Qo	I would like to welcome the Minister. Questions are answered by Minister of Climate and Environment Åsa Romson, Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist, Minister Isabella Lövin, Minister of State Anna Johansson and Minister of Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Climate and Environment Åsa Romson answers both general policy questions and questions within her own area of responsibility.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-247	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Security Service recently changed the assessment of the risk of a terrorist attack in Sweden and raised the level to the second highest. The seriousness of Europe became evident in the recent situation in Paris. The Swedish Security Service estimates that approximately 300 people have travelled from Sweden to participate in IS terrorist activities in Syria. Of them, 40 have died, and 130 to 140 people have returned to Sweden after such terrorist trips. In addition to the fact that they may have committed serious crimes abroad, they may also have acquired the ability and been commissioned to commit attacks in Sweden and in Europe.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-250	Mr President, I would like to I thank Beatrice Ask for a question on an urgent subject. The government shares the concern that we have an increased number of people returning after participating in probable terrorist acts. Of course, it would be good to be able to prosecute them in Sweden. It would be good for the preventive work against terrorism and important for society for a preventive purpose. As countless debates in this House have shown during the year, this partly requires new legislation. It's on its way. The Government intends to criminalise receiving terrorist training and to travel with a view to committing or preparing terrorist offences or receiving terrorist training. This has been the subject of an investigation. The investigation proposal is now being referred, and the government hopes to complete its proposal before Christmas.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-253	Mr President, I would like to It is excellent that the government is prepared to put forward proposals for the criminalisation of terrorist travel. However, for that legislation to be useful, it must be possible to investigate the crimes. The police are completely dependent on being able to follow the communication and find out what is happening across national borders. Requests have been made to obtain the right to receive a signal scan even during preliminary investigations and to be given the opportunity to use secret data readings. These are the two concrete tools that the police consider necessary.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-255	Mr President, I would like to Beatrice Ask has certainly heard the minister responsible post the text on this quite a lot, because these are no easy questions. There will be some difficult balances between the importance of this for the Swedish signal intelligence and the important information we receive through these channels about the planning and execution of these extremely serious crimes. What would it mean if we continued to do so in the framework of preliminary investigations? I know some thought work is going on, but it has not yet been possible to find a good solution to that. That is, in any case, the information I have received from the minister responsible when I have followed these questions. If you would like a more detailed answer, more questions can of course be asked to Anders Ygeman. In terms of further secret data reading, the Government's ambition is to be able to move forward. If the courts have ruled that something needs to be bugged, but it is not possible for purely technical reasons, it should be solved.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-258	Mr President, I would like to My question is put to the Minister for the Environment. On Tuesday's committee meeting we received information from the Ministry of Environment and Energy and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. The Ministry considered, among other things, that the earlier decision-making process of hunting decisions by state authorities that are constantly appealed by small environmental organisations cannot be said to have made wolf hunting more difficult or hindered. It is extremely strange that a procrastination is so mildly defended that a parliamentary decision with authority decisions on wolf hunting is not seen as a problem. The Swedish Democrats find it strange that the government is updating to return to a review procedure in an administrative court and not at the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency as it is now, especially when the Supreme Administrative Court is examining this particular issue. The previous decision-making process stopped wolf hunting for several years, 2012, 2013 and 2014.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-263	Mr President, I would like to The issue is raised from the point of view of legal certainty and on the basis that decisions taken by administrations and authorities in Sweden should be subject to judicial review in order to ensure that the decisions are correct. Basically, it is about us making the right and good decisions in the Swedish authorities and administrations and that it should be governed from the Swedish parliament by making legal decisions. I do not know whether the honourable Member was in Parliament during the last parliamentary term, but I did. Then there was no debate that it was a crucial point in the predatory bill that, as a consequence of the delegation of wolf hunting decisions, it would not be possible to try this in the usual way. It is a principle of legal certainty that Sweden has acceded to both internationally and through EU conventions. This is under investigation. There is an investigation proposal, and the government intends to proceed with the investigation's proposal.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-266	Mr President, I would like to On Monday, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency published its report Analysis and account of how the socio-economy is affected by a wolf population that has favourable conservation status in Sweden. Here it is argued that there is no significant economic impact of wolf on activities and industries. Has the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, like the government, completely lost touch with the reality that many in these areas live in? The reality is that people express concern and disappointment at the deterioration of quality of life with constant concern for the safety of their domestic animals, hunting dogs and children in the territorial counties. The rural population's feelings and experiences, recreational value of hunting and depreciation of properties and hunting rights seem to lack value in the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's analytical report. We want to lift this responsibility from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and instead put it on a pure authority for hunting and game issues. It would add a rural anchorage and provide an authority that holds Sweden together. The Swedish Democrats see a new hunting authority as part of this strategy.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-271	Mr President, I would like to It was rather a question to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency about a clarification and further deepening of the background to the conclusions drawn by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. According to the brief report that I have had time to take note of, it is about the fact that from a macro perspective no negative development of rural industries can be linked to the increased predator population. Rather, some specific industries have grown as a result, not least in the tourism sector. However, it does not deny or reduce the individual problem that exists in each case that predators can come into severe or even fatal conflict with pets and domestic animals. The government is therefore pursuing a predatory policy to protect the reduction of these conflict risks, ensuring that Sweden now has a larger predator population.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-276	Mr President, I would like to I, too, have a question for Minister of the Environment Åsa Romson. During the autumn, the EU has been working on so-called conformity values for exhaust gas requirements for cars and when they are to be introduced. The Commission presented a proposal for a technical committee composed of experts from the Member States. The Committee also included experts from Sweden. Since the decision was taken in the Technical Committee, there have been quite a number of different bids about the line Sweden took in these negotiations. The Minister for the Environment has said one figure, the experts have said another and the government has said that the experts have acted on their own initiative, while the experts themselves believe that the instructions have come from the Ministry of the Environment. Now that we have the minister in charge on the ground, I would like to ask whether she would be able to clarify once and for all what line Sweden has taken in the negotiations, on whose behalf the experts acted and why Sweden pursued the line it did.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-281	Mr President, I would like to It has been an extremely urgent issue for the EU to have a better regulation of exhaust gases. It should not be like today when vehicles and cars are only tested against a theoretical driving cycle, but should be a more reality-based system. Sweden has had this requirement and has been more rapid of these rules within the EU for a long time. I myself have written countless letters with the Dutch Minister, among others, and some others have raised the issue with Commissioners and said that we need a better order, in terms of the overall picture. We must put in place a cycle that tests against more real driving, not least cold driving, which is important to our country. We base it on the measurements that we have made in Sweden for a long time and where we have seen quite large deviations from the real emissions. It is therefore welcome for the EU as a whole that the decisions taken so far have moved towards putting a driving cycle in place. Not all steps are taken at once, but significant steps will be taken in September 2017. It has been important for Sweden that the first steps start in 2017. Then we will take further steps to reduce emissions in Sweden.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-286	Mr President, I would like to Since the Minister did not really want to tell us what line Sweden has taken, I can tell you that according to the figures presented today in Expressen, Sweden has had a line of 150% above the limit, while the Commission's proposal was 110%. Sweden has thus pursued a much less ambitious line. The Minister has claimed that Sweden has been the driving force in getting as ambitious limits as possible, but unfortunately this shows something else. It is a bit problematic that it has not really been clear what the government has been running and that it has had very unambitious levels. It is problematic because one wonders if there are more areas where the Ministry of the Environment shows an agenda outwardly but pushes for less ambitious agendas in the real work. It is also problematic from an environmental point of view. I wonder: In what way does Sweden's action in the Committee on Motor Vehicles reach the ambitions of the Minister for the Environment and Climate to improve air quality for better health and the environment?
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-290	Mr President, I would like to I repeat what I said earlier, namely that it is welcome that, from September 2017, the European Union will have to have a driving cycle where it must be supplemented by driving cycles of a more reality-based nature. Sweden has been a driving force in this. We have other demands in the reform, namely to have more independent actors to verify, and there are a number of additional demands for the Commission to act in order for this to come into place. The Technical Committee also took part in experts from Sweden to agree on what is technically possible, in what steps and how. It is quite right that the various countries came up with different technical assessments of what is possible and when. In the first step, Sweden believed that it was not technically possible to get as far as the Commission said, but in later steps Sweden wanted even harder and sharper values in place. It was a negotiation between the technical experts in the Committee on what can be done. For the Swedish government, it was important that a decision was reached.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-296	Mr President, I would like to My question also goes to Minister of Climate and Environment Åsa Romson. On Monday, the climate summit in Paris began, and there are many politicians and officials on the ground or who will travel there in the hope that we will have a strong and binding climate agreement. However, just over a month ago, that is to say, on 30 October, the United Nations Climate Change Convention presented a report summarising the voluntary commitments made by the countries and parties for the meeting. It had been calculated that emissions will continue to increase and that we are moving towards an increase in the average temperature of the earth by 3 degrees. My question to Minister Romson is: Do you think that after the Paris meeting the world can take further steps and fulfil further commitments so that we can reach the two degree target?
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-300	Mr President, I would like to It is the fate of many of us who go to the climate summit to ensure that we find solutions. I am very pleased that there are several Members who also come to be able to influence on the ground, because the impact is far from intended only for governments. We have strong support from Swedish companies, municipalities and regions on these issues. I believe that the Swedish debate has made it clear that it is not enough to complete a package in Paris and say: this is the solution. The climate summit in Paris must form an agreement that is dynamic in the sense that it secures the first steps. Only a handful of countries on earth have not yet submitted their climate commitments, and one must secure a process in which these countries come back and say: Okay, we can do more. In fact, doing so every five years will be the most important outcome of the climate summit.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-303	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. It is not only in Paris that we will take responsibility for the climate, but also here at home. Soon, the Riksdag will decide on a budget for the so-called Climate Q & A. There are 600 million to finance various local climate projects. Already in our amending budget we decided on funds, SEK 125 million. Criticism from the bourgeois side did not wait. It has been questioned how the money can be released and whether there will be enough projects to be applied to that extent. My question is about an update of the situation: what has happened with the applications, and what is the process of climate change?
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-307	Mr President, I would like to As the honourable Member points out, climate change does not take place at the summit, but at home – in companies and regions and in how we as legislators and government build Sweden in the future, just as we can demand other countries to reduce their emissions. An important component to get the whole of Sweden to work with climate work is that the government can go in with co-financing and collaborate around scaling up successful climate projects. We need to move forward faster, not least at the climate summit. All countries need to work on a stronger agenda. In order to scale up the plans of municipalities, regions, businesses and housing associations to reduce emissions, we must be involved in financing some of them. It's been a lot of luck. So far, many people have been looking for money, and we will get a lot of climate benefit in Sweden for this money. It is co-financing that other actors also fund.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-312	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Isabella Lövin. Finally, it was announced that the red-green government has taken an agreement internally. The government will offset about one third of the aid for the reception of refugees. There has been great concern about what applies, and there has been a tricky budget reading in committee. The internal agreement of the government parties with each other only applies for 2016, that is next year. They couldn't get along anymore. My question is, what happens next, is there a plan?
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-316	Mr President, I would like to I thank Sofia Arkelsten for the question. It is gratifying that even the Moderates think it is good that we are now setting a limit on the settlements. The Green Party and the Social Democrats have agreed to depart from the model that has been used so far, with a standard to count off the first year of refugee reception. In the extreme situation we now find ourselves in with 60 million people fleeing the world and an unprecedented influx of refugees also to Sweden, we do not see that it is sustainable to continue counting off automatically from aid. In that case, aid would in principle be halved or more than halved in the aid budget, as forecast today for 2016. We have therefore agreed to limit the counting of refugees for next year to 30%, in case there are as many as we expect.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-320	Mr President, I would like to I note that I did not receive an answer to what will happen after 2016. I note that the Green Party was against settlements but has therefore multiplied them, from 8 to about 30 %. The government waits until the spring change budget to give information on how this should be handled in practice and what should be prioritised away in the aid. Why was the aid not considered important enough to be included in the supplementary amending budget that the government submitted to Parliament on 12 November?
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-323	Mr President, I would like to It was very gratifying that we managed to avoid further settlements for 2015 in the supplementary amending budget that was submitted. The Green Party has indeed been reluctant to make these comprehensive statements from aid to refugee reception, and that is a position that we still have. We are very pleased that, together with the Social Democrats, we have reached an agreement to set a ceiling on how much can be deducted from the aid for refugee reception. With some sadness we have noted that we have not heard the corresponding pledge from the Moderates or from other parties in the Riksdag about this. I think that is an important principle. The outcome will depend on how many refugees will come next year, but we do not know. We will have to return to Parliament on this in our amending budget.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-326	Mr President, I would like to The climate summit in Paris is in full swing. On Monday, the Heads of State or Government gave their speeches. The Prime Minister of Tuvalu – an island kingdom north of Australia – Enele Sopoaga said: We're at the edge of the ruins. Continued temperature rise will mean the total end of Tuvalu. Unfortunately, that is the case for many developing countries. They are affected here and now by our emissions. I think it was good that Prime Minister Stefan Löfven took the initiative to phase out subsidies to fossil energy sources, as he did at a meeting on Monday at the climate summit with some forty other countries. I would like to ask the Minister for Climate and the Environment: Now that Sweden has made this move about subsidies to fossil energy sources, what subsidies to fossil energy sources do you want to phase out here in Sweden?
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-331	Mr President, I would like to I, too, am deeply touched by the evidence from not only Tuvalu but also other countries on climate change. It's terrible. I think it is important that a climate summit like what is going on right now should be able to take part in it. There, Mr Tuvalu and several other island states are making a strong effort, and I know that there were several meetings attended by Stefan Löfven, among others, together with the heads of government of these countries. Not least, it is important to know what the difference is if you would reach an average temperature increase of only 1 1⁄2 degree. It really means the difference between life and death for some of these nations. The phasing out of fossil subsidies is an important issue globally. Sweden also works for it. It is very international and global, and we are also looking at it at home. In particular, the non-tax-related fossil subsidies are really harmful and need to be phased out.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-334	Mr President, I would like to I would like to know what environmentally harmful subsidies the government intends to phase out. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has carried out a survey that was updated in 2011 on the environmentally harmful subsidies in Sweden. If you sum up those subsidies, it will be about SEK 50 billion in subsidies for increased emissions, for meat production, for the fishing industry, for reduced carbon tax for industry, for a travel allowance that benefits people in big cities but not in rural areas and so on. Since this is such an important issue for Sweden also internationally and we are pushing it towards other countries, I would like to ask the Minister for Climate and the Environment: Should Sweden not have an action plan to phase out our own environmentally harmful subsidies? Should we not clean our own house now that we are urging other countries to do so?
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-336	Mr President, I would like to Well, Sweden cleans up its own door by being one of the few countries that, among other things, issue such reports from our expert authorities, in accordance with the cooperation that we have within the OECD, which carries out an important international work that we support. We have been initiators of the broader call that has now driven, among other things, New Zealand and several of the Nordic countries internationally, to ensure that they work hard to remove environmentally harmful subsidies. We see very positive examples in Indonesia, among others, where a major reform within a country with potentially major problems has been successfully achieved. By removing environmentally harmful subsidies in the fuel sector, resources can actually be available to invest in climate action. We report very clearly in the budget – it happens every year in Sweden, and it is gratifying that it is supported by the Left Party – how we work with this in Sweden. It states that priority is given to non-tax-related fossil subsidies. Beyond that, of course, we do other things. For example, we are setting up an investigation into airline tax. It is one way to move forward and make it clear that we have more to do.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-340	Mr President, I would like to As a Green Liberal, I also have a question for Minister of Climate and Environment Åsa Romson. It may be a little one-way, but it may have to do with the start of climate negotiations in Paris. It goes without saying that global challenges require global solutions, but I would like to see the link with national policies. As liberals, we believe that the task of politics is to set economic instruments that promote climate-smart solutions in Sweden, so that Sweden can also be an example for other countries. This involves, among other things, what we usually call a green tax shift, i.e. a reduced tax on labour and entrepreneurship, which allows for increased taxes on the environmental and climate side. Now the tax is increased by about 32 billion. This mainly affects jobs and entrepreneurship. My question to the Minister is: what happened to the green tax exchange?
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-343	Mr President, I would like to I, too, think it is important to link international policy with national policy, not least because climate issues are both national and international. It is just as Lars Tysklind says: We must push for climate work in Sweden that can also give rings on the water in other countries. It is only by assuming our responsibilities here at home that we can say with credibility to other countries that they should assume their responsibilities. One small example is that the government is trying to see how we can benefit the Swedish export industry through climate-friendly reforms. There is, for example, the success of one of the major Swedish companies in developing an electric bus, something that is extremely interesting not only for the Swedish bus network in places where you can get less emissions but also in large countries like India, which is one of the actors that really needs to be turned around in order for us to have a good, strong agreement and also reduced emissions. We think that is important. Let me come back to the green exchange of taxes. In this respect, I welcome the proposals that the Liberals have spoken about regarding environmental taxes.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-346	Mr President, I would like to The question remains as to what is happening with the green tax shift. Nevertheless, I note that we Liberals think it goes without saying that growth, development and a market economy are key elements of climate change. As far as we are concerned, we have already put forward in this year's budget some proposals on differentiated travel deductions for large cities and rural areas, increased vehicle taxes and chemical taxes etc. We have made further proposals that we have discussed at our country meeting. We see that this is a way forward. But this is a kind of zero-sum game, where it is not just about raising taxes across the board, but also about reducing taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship, so we have room to raise environmental and climate taxes. I guess that's the exchange of taxes. Now it's mostly just a tax increase. The question is, what happened to the green tax exchange?
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-349	Mr President, I would like to In order to risk provoking a debate that we held here in this House very many times in the last parliamentary term – on what happened to the tax exchange – we can well note that the former alliance-led government and the current Social Democratic and Environmental Party government have different views on how much taxes Sver ige needs to get in to maintain good welfare and how good it is to strengthen Sweden. In fact, I believe that the whole answer lies to the question of how this government has dealt with the fact that the previous government reduced taxes by 100 billion. That's where it comes from. I welcome Liberals' initiative to look at smart chemicals taxes and vehicle taxes within a system such as bonuses – malus. This is something that is being dealt with in an investigation that the government has initiated and will pursue. But I put a question mark to the new rhetoric of the Liberals, given how harshly they say 'no' to what really matters in the climate context. It is the taxes on petrol and diesel, which will now be written up in accordance with the wallet.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-354	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg. The government has set a target for Sweden to have the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. To achieve this goal, an active industrial policy is needed. We MPs are often visiting companies around the country. There are often two challenges or problems that are addressed and that we receive as a contribution to the government. This applies to the supply of skills and to the fact that many companies find it difficult to find staff with the right training. This also applies to access to capital and to venture capital. State venture capital has received quite a lot of criticism – rightly so, I would say. It is about the fact that state venture capital has often come into a too late stage. It's about the fact that it's been sprawling. It is also about the fact that it has been very ineffective.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-359	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. I fully share the view that these are two of the major challenges that we face to cope with growing and hiring companies around Sweden. When we have companies that are currently in a phase where the economy is going very well – we have more than 3 per cent growth in the Swedish economy, we see that exports are pulling and we see that there are increased labour shortages in several sectors – education policy and matching policy are crucial to satisfy these companies with labour, so that they are not forced to turn down orders. This is also reflected in the government budget, where an enormous investment in education is also linked to the needs of the business community. The second part concerns venture capital. There the government has announced that there will be a bill in March next year. There has been a quick investigation, the referral points have arrived and now we are working in the Government Office to develop a bill to re-establish state venture capital to get more exchange of growing companies.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-361	Mr President, I would like to I'll start by apologizing for barely being able to ask my question to the Minister for Enterprise and Innovation. Four out of five jobs are created in SMEs. This is why access to venture capital is so vital for companies to be able to start and create more jobs in Sweden. We have many innovative people and companies in Sweden who need access to venture capital in an early stage. The government probably has some solutions for this in the bill that comes at the beginning of next year. I would also like to put another question to Minister of Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg. For many of these companies, Sweden is too small a market. Many of these innovative companies urgently need to go into the widest world. What can the government do to facilitate this journey?
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-365	Mr President, I would like to As far as venture capital is concerned, it is quite correct that start-ups often find it difficult to obtain funding. One is not always interested in providing private capital in the first phases when the risks are very high. There the state has a specific role to be able to go in early and attract private capital to enable these innovations to flourish. Here we have received criticism before. Let's take a look around it. But it is not just about venture capital, it is also about bank loans. Since the financial crisis, we have seen that it has become much more difficult and expensive not least for small and medium-sized enterprises to borrow money for ordinary investments in order to expand their business. This is also one of the things that we expect to be included in the government venture capital bill and the development of the activities that will take place in March. In addition, the government has put forward an export strategy in which we focus above all on helping small and medium-sized enterprises to enter the world market. An exporting company is a growing company.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-368	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask my question to the Minister for the Environment. Last week the Christian Democrats held a seminar on the Water Directive. With dismay, we heard many examples of individual dusters and farmers who are affected by having to pay many millions to remove and tear out well-functioning sawmills, mills and small hydroelectric plants. It's life's work that goes to waste. We are not talking about large state power companies, but about small individual dusters with limited economies. My question to the Minister for the Environment is as follows: does the Minister for the Environment think it is reasonable that all costs should be spent on the private individual accordingly?
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-370	Mr President, I would like to It is a rather complex area that is affected. The Water Directive is, in its extension, an important directive in the EU – that all EU Member States are working towards good water quality. It is not least important in a country such as Sweden that is so rich in water. Our food production and well-being in the form of clean water and clean air are based on our being able to deal with water issues. There are great challenges here. The challenge of flowing water concerns biodiversity, where many Swedish rivers are heavily affected because we have historically had a large amount of dust and power operations. This must be modernised, and steps must be taken to do so. I know that there are many people who are just thinking about how these steps should be taken and in what order. The previous government took a number of steps by giving special instructions to the county administrative boards. This has been the result of a certain activity which has received great criticism today from the Members of the Alliance. The government is trying to be responsive and find solutions.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-373	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for the Environment for his answer. We received many questions at this seminar. It was told that many of the small hydroelectric plants actually provide a lot of energy. My question is: is it important to the Minister for the Environment? It should be. I am also thinking of all farmers who have lost a lot of arable land that will be put under water. What does the Minister think of this?
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-376	Mr President, I would like to It will be a bit difficult to guess the exact context of this seminar. That sounds like a very interesting seminar. I hope the Christian Democrats felt that they had something to live. I will make two points. When it comes to owners of small hydroelectric plants, we should be clear that small hydroelectric plants are of little importance for energy supply and for safe access to good energy in Sweden. They account for a few percent of production. For energy reasons, and therefore climate reasons, they do not have a major impact. On the other hand, they have great cultural values. Of course, they can also have a substantial economic value for the individual owner. Today, hydropower is the most profitable energy production in Sweden. I therefore have no doubt at all about this. That is also why I say that this is a problem that we need to look at. What steps are we going to make in terms of legislation? We cannot have the order in Sweden that in all other sectors we impose modern environmental requirements but make exceptions for the whole sector.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-379	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Minister for Infrastructure on aviation and regional airports. Aviation is an important part of our infrastructure, and the country's regional airports have been facing major challenges for a long time and are still doing so. Most airports are currently operated by non-governmental organisations. They are run regionally, usually by regions or municipalities. The new EU guidelines do not allow financial support if airports are not perceived as SGEIs – so-called SGEI criteria are to be met. Then the aid will be allowed. This has been applied for, but the European Commission has been challenging. It has also been the Finnish Transport Administration and the government. What does the Minister of Infrastructure do to ensure this important part of our infrastructure, so that we also have well-functioning regional airports in the future?
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-382	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. As the honourable Member says, the regulatory framework for State aid to airports in the EU has been revised. It is precisely in 2015 that it is a transitional period when the regulatory framework goes from what has been in place in the past to something else. It's caused a lot of trouble. The government shares the view that local and regional airports have a very important function in our country, which is very remote and where the need to be able to move is very great. That is why we believe it is important to support these airports so that they can continue to operate. This aid is not in fact called into question. What it is all about is adapting to a new regulatory framework. State aid remains at the same levels as before. On the other hand, it needs to be determined that it actually meets the EU criteria in order to be able to belong to this circle of airports.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-385	Mr President, I would like to State airports are not so much affected by what is going on, but regional airports are concerned. The challenge is, of course, that the EU should carry out an audit and be critically questionable, but also that the Ministry of Industry and, above all, the Finnish Transport Administration temporarily suspended payments of aid to certain airports. But this was appealed and they gave up for acting in a way that might not have been done. It is important that the government and the Swedish authorities are involved in actively lobbying the European Commission at this stage and show that the conditions are slightly different in different parts of Europe and that this is an extremely important part of our infrastructure. I hope that the Minister will continue to do so, and I understand that there is a conflict between the two government parties on the importance of this.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-387	Mr President, I would like to No, in this case there is in fact no conflict at all between the authorities and the government or within the government, but what is at issue here is that regional and local airports need to adapt to a regulatory system that the EU has in order to be the recipient of aid without it becoming unlawful state aid. This involves, among other things, having no more than 250 000 passengers per year and some other criteria that should be met, and these criteria have changed in part. The Finnish Transport Agency is the authority that has the government's mission to pay out the subsidies. This must be done in a way that ensures that an airport does not receive aid on incorrect grounds, because then it is the airport that suffers from being liable for repayment. Therefore, it is very important to ensure that you follow the rules that exist. Trafikverket says this is a temporary problem. This occurs this year because you go from one system of rules to another. But there is no policy at all in this.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-391	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask my question to Deputy Prime Minister Åsa Romson. In November, the European Commission put forward a sharp proposal for stricter arms regulations following recent terrorist acts, which includes a ban on the private possession of certain semi-automatic hunting and sporting weapons. Should this proposal go through, it would be a manslaughter battle against thousands of hunters and sportsmen in Sweden. My question is therefore quite simple: does the government support the opinion of its representatives in the EU, which largely supports the Commission's proposal, or is it going to fight for Swedish hunters and sportsmen?
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-393	Mr President, I would like to The government wants tougher legislation, including in the EU, on the arms directive. But we definitely want it to take account of the situation in the Member States. For the Swedish part, we do not want the amendments made to the Weapons Directive to lead to unnecessary inconvenience for Swedish hunters, but we want to ensure that the exemption continues to be respected. It is important to have stronger legislation but of course also important that it works in practice. Then it is not Swedish hunters' weapons that the legislation is aimed at, but they should be excluded.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-394	Mr President, I would like to A brief supplementary question: does the Deputy Prime Minister think that collective punishment of law-abiding citizens is the right way to go in the fight against terrorism?
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-395	Mr President, I would like to Sorry, I didn't hear the question.
i-ee2f5411a6f2e3fd-0	Does the Deputy Prime Minister think that collective punishment of law-abiding citizens is the way forward in the fight against terrorism? ) Mr President, I would like to Of course, we generally believe that collective punishment is not a good method, not in any part of society. Our view is that common tougher arms legislation in the EU is appropriate. But we see no reason to create unnecessary inconvenience for Swedish hunters. I hope I was clear in my answer.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-399	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist and concerns the host country agreement that Parliament will vote on next year. Could it be that Sweden will be forced to use nuclear weapons with the host country agreement?
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-401	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. The answer is no. There is no basis for such fears or assertions. The host country agreement governs the exemption from customs duties, the Road Traffic Damage Act, the Road Safety Act, the Motor Insurance Regulation, the Aliens Regulation and the Protection Regulation. This is the kind of regulatory framework that is at stake. It is about facilitating the exercise that is already ongoing and that takes place at the invitation of the Swedish Government. Everything that happens on Swedish territory, if the host country agreement is also decided in the Riksdag, will be done at the invitation of the Swedish Government. It is primarily aimed at clarifying the practice activities. Of course, in a crisis or war situation, they have prepared to give or accept assistance.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-404	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Defence for his answer, which was very clear. A supplementary question: What benefits does the Minister of Defence see with the host country agreement?
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-406	Mr President, I would like to I mentioned at the outset that all this will facilitate the exercise and all the cooperation that is already under way. It is simply a lot of bureaucracy that disappears. At the same time, it is something that can strengthen Sweden in a situation of civil or other kind of crisis that has had time to prepare for such a situation. It is not just a question of accepting help, it is also a question of giving help, depending on what it is about. We shall have these double perspectives when we look at this. Today we have extensive cooperation in the field of exercise activities, and I do not think there is any reason to maintain unnecessary bureaucracy around this.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-409	Mr President, I would like to Almost four years ago, the Alliance government introduced a reduction in restaurant VAT. It was to meet an industry that had had problems with a lot of undeclared work and low profitability. There was an injustice in VAT rates in the food trade. Now, almost four years later, the Institute of Economics has come up with an evaluation. It turns out that Konjunkturinstitut estimates that there have been about 6 per cent more employees in the restaurant industry than it would have been if the restaurant VAT had not been reduced. That is equivalent to 6,000 people. This is a lot of people who've been in isolation.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-412	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I have not been able to read the report referred to so far. However, I can reassure the honourable Member that the government has chosen not to change restaurant VAT, because we see that it would not be an adequate measure at this stage. We see a restaurant industry but also a tourism industry that is growing strongly in Sweden. It is not just the restaurant industry, but very many parts of the tourism industry are doing very well in Sweden today. The government is also making efforts to further strengthen it, not least through more international marketing. It is part of a modern export policy to make sure that more people visit our beautiful country, stay here and spend some money, perhaps also in restaurants around Sweden.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-414	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. We have also noted that the government did not intend to adjust the restaurant VAT upwards. The Bankruptcy Institute is not just any assessor. It is a government authority, and there is a great deal of credibility in what the Institute of Economics says. I recommend that the Minister take note of the in-depth investigation. The aim of this reform, which was linked to other reforms in which the government has made adjustments, was, above all, to ensure that many people who had been excluded from the labour market could enter and get to work. It is about the long-term unemployed, it is about people with foreign background and it is about people with lower education. Now that we see that the reform has been effective, I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs: are there any other efforts that the government is prepared to make? Then I mean real stakes, not trainee jobs and fake actions.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-419	Mr President, I would like to Just a reflection on the fiscal policy of the previous government. It was not just this effect of it, but we see several other effects. One effect was that they left behind a large budget deficit which we, the government, are still working to pick off today. Another effect was that tax cuts were repeatedly chosen instead of investments in schools. We see a huge challenge in Swedish school today. Swedish school loses most knowledge in the entire OECD area. Instead, the government has chosen to invest strongly in more investment in teachers, higher wages and early intervention. We are also investing heavily in housing construction, and we are now seeing an increase in housing construction across the country. We are making efforts, for example, on export policy, as I mentioned earlier, to ensure more growing companies. When making tax adjustments, it is important to make them responsible to maintain a strong economy, but also to maintain a high quality in public activities, not least in Swedish schools.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-423	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Climate and Environment Åsa Romson and is of a general political nature. The legitimacy of the asylum system is based on the fact that the person who has been refused should also leave the country. But it does not always work in practice. It is particularly difficult to reject people to Afghanistan, because the authorities there do not participate in the reception of their own citizens. On Friday, Afghanistan's President Ashraf Ghani will meet Prime Minister Stefan Löfven. Will the Prime Minister raise the issue of a return agreement with Afghanistan?
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-426	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it is one of the issues that I understand is on the agenda. Now I have not got the exact agenda. These are things that change as there is contact between delegations. But that is one of the interesting issues to discuss, in addition to the situation in Afghanistan, of course. Afghanistan is a country in which Sweden has an enormous aid effort. It is a country in which we have had a strong involvement, including support for the military presence. We are very concerned about Afghanistan's stability, not least for the people who are there, but also in view of the many refugees around the world who come from Afghanistan and who might wish to return. If people in Sweden of Afghan origin can return, it is very good. As far as I am aware, it is one of the points on the agenda.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-429	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for the Environment for his answer. It sounds good that both parties in the cooperation government have discussed this issue and that the Minister for the Environment is informed about what the talks will be about. Today, Afghanistan is one of the largest recipients of Swedish aid, as the Minister for the Environment pointed out. Until 2019, our country will contribute almost SEK 5 billion. Does the government have any thoughts of making this assistance conditional on demands such as equal rights for women, the fight against corruption and a better reception of unaccompanied minors who do not receive asylum in Sweden?
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-431	Mr President, I would like to Sweden's strong commitment to aid in Afghanistan, as I explained in my previous speech, is a work for long-term stability and development. Sweden is indeed a driving force, both through the efforts of civil society and supported by the state and through the bilateral relations that we have with Afghanistan, in strengthening institutional democracy building and, not least, human rights. If you ask people in Sweden what is most important for developing Afghanistan, I think many will answer that it is an equal school where girls get the right to school. This is also one of the priorities of the Swedish efforts. The second question was about unaccompanied refugee children. It is quite true that many of them have Afghan origins. The reason why there are many people of this origin who are now going to Sweden is not that they are fleeing directly from Afghanistan, but that they are fleeing from the Middle East, where countries have pursued a policy that either shuts them out or sends them to Syria's war.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-434	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister Anna Johansson. Reducing climate impacts in the transport sector is becoming increasingly urgent. As part of this work, it is extremely important that a greater proportion of transport is transferred from road to rail. Of course, it is also extremely important to have strong confidence in the railways. We must be able to rely on the trains to go on time and that they will arrive when we have thought that they will arrive, that is, on schedule. Unfortunately, in recent years, travellers have had to get used to quite a lot of delays in winter, cancellations of trains, overcrowded platforms, and more. Now the government has added 1.24 billion in maintenance efforts for 2016. My specific question to the Government is: in what way does the government work to ensure that train traffic will go this winter?
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-437	Mr President, I would like to There are, in fact, several parts to the question. In part, it is about the overall condition of the railways, and it leaves some other things to be desired. Of course, the 1.24 billion mentioned will be extremely important in order to increase the quality of the railway plant and increase its reliability. There will be no work that can be completed very quickly, but it will have to go on for quite a long time. But it is also, of course, a question of making the necessary preparations for the winter so that traffic can be as painless as possible. I have had meetings with all parts of the railway system, i.e. operators, the Finnish Transport Agency and contractors. They have a very extensive preparatory work that also takes place in collaboration, and they describe many measures that together make me feel relatively confident that it will at least work better this winter than previous winters.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-439	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased with the answer.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-441	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Deputy Prime Minister Åsa Romson about the housing situation for asylum seekers. There's a lot of pressure now. The reception system faces huge challenges. Among those who open asylum homes are many new actors who may not really have experience of this. What you really have responsibility for is to give a roof over your head. But now we hear reports of several Christians being attacked on the homes. This is unacceptable. We need zero tolerance. In what way does Minister Romson Åsa to address this important issue?
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-444	Mr President, I would like to As Mrs Pethrus says, there is a very serious situation in Sweden right now when it comes to satisfying the basic needs of the refugees and asylum seekers who have come here. There, of course, the accommodation becomes a central point. It's like step one. I know that the Migration Agency works more or less around the clock to secure food for the day and shelter over the head, but also of course to ensure that the accommodation you offer is acceptable. Not only should you give a roof over your head, but it should also be a place where you can feel safe. This is an incredible challenge when it comes to so many people. It is totally unacceptable for people to be attacked, for acts of violence to be committed or for people to feel insecure about the accommodations that the Migration Board has. I know that the authority takes this very seriously and is doing everything to ensure that the situation is under control.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-446	Mr President, I would like to I've seen an e-mail exchange between the Migration Agency and various people working to help people in asylum homes. Unfortunately, the Migration Agency gives the answer that nothing can be done. There are people who have joined asylum seekers to the police and made police reports. Then they have had to go back for the asylum seeker to live with a person who said he wanted to slit his throat. If these reports are correct, we need to get a picture of how extensive this is and what is being done to counteract it. We should not have to have special accommodations for Christians and others for Muslims. It would, of course, be against the whole Swedish system of openness and the possibility for people to feel that they will be protected when they come to Sweden. I would like to hear the Deputy Prime Minister say that it is really zero tolerance that applies and that the resources needed to counter this kind of development will be deployed. No one should have to feel insecure.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-448	Mr President, I would like to I fully agree that it is unacceptable for people to feel that kind of threat to their security in asylum homes. I know the authorities are taking it seriously. However, I cannot say that all the administrators at the Migration Board today have time to devote themselves to all the tasks they would like to do. I understand they don't have it in this situation. It is a responsibility of the government to ensure that the agency has the opportunity to work better with its tasks. I do not think it was the honourable Member's will to spread a picture of us having to move towards a system in which Christians and Muslims are separated from our asylum homes. That is not where the fundamental conflicts are. There are several isolated incidents that are very serious and where the police need to be involved in a serious and good way. The situation must be taken seriously in every place where it takes place. We'll work even more to make it happen.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-451	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister for Infrastructure. The climate summit in Paris is on-going, and solutions to meet the climate threat are being chiseled out. For the Swedish part, the energy sector is well developed. Nuclear and hydroelectric power plants have little or no climate impact. But on the transport side we still have a long way to go. The tax on ethanol is now rising in the days. At the turn of the year, it will be 20 000 SEK more expensive to buy a charging hybrid in Sweden. It's going a little the other way.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-455	Mr President, I would like to The government doesn't want that at all. On the contrary, the government wants to move faster. The goal is for us to have a fossil-independent vehicle fleet by 2030. We need to work on many different measures to achieve that goal. We need to reduce the need for transport in general. We need to ensure that the transport that takes place is carried out in the most environmentally friendly way possible. We need more people to choose environmentally friendly means of transport. Yesterday we started work on developing a cycling strategy that can be of great importance especially in our cities. We had a meeting on Monday with many stakeholders on alternative fuels to see how we can jointly move forward. Of course, the state needs to take some responsibility. But we need to have a market that takes on and ensures that it is not only ideas and state aid, but also a reality of the expansion of alternative fuels. That development is very much under way.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-458	Mr President, I would like to I hear what the Government says, but I note that the Government is acting in many ways in the opposite direction. Money for research into clean energy is taken from the existing framework without a contribution actually being made. At the same time, the government is pushing towards the EU a line on softer emission requirements. In order to relate to the climate summit in Paris, my question is: Is there not a risk that the Swedish Government's direction will undermine confidence in Sweden as a leader in the transformation?
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-460	Mr President, I would like to I'd like to say the exact opposite. Sweden has many technical solutions such as electric buses and new models for propulsion in cities that the outside world looks at and wants to learn from. Sweden is the country in the EU that already has the largest share of the vehicle fleet operating in other ways than fossil fuels. We are far from satisfied. But we're already pretty far ahead. The risk that Sweden would be perceived as backward is very small. We are now looking at a bonus – malus system that will make it more advantageous to buy a less environmentally-burdening car. We increase the contribution to buy a pure electric car when it comes to the super environmental car premium. We are looking at the expansion of alternative fuels. We're looking at electric roads. We have such projects underway. A wide range of actions are underway at the same time in many areas which, taken together, aim to achieve the objective.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-464	I thank the participating ministers and Members for today's Question Time.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-465	Mr President, I would like to The Green Party has now had to contend with a number of broken electoral promises, which has irritated voters. It's about coal power, Bypass Stockholm, license hunting on wolves and more. Something that I find quite astonishing is the broken promise, if you are to call it a promise, of counting in the aid budget. The Green Party criticised it very strongly in the past. Now the MP-S government is prepared to raise the bill to as much as 30 percent. This was a betrayal that I personally thought was terrible to hear. But then there was also that other betrayals that actually made me happy. It is the new migration policy that the Green Party has gone out with. Of course, it is not perfect, but it is a step in the right direction. Just now we have seen information that the government wants to close the Öresund Bridge. Is it not more honest to simply say that we want to close the borders?
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-469	Mr President, I would like to Just as we differed and were each other's opposites a few weeks ago and just as we have been in the past, we are just as much each other's opposites today. This is not about a reversal of the policy of the Green Party, or for that matter of government policy. This is a temporary law in a very acute and difficult situation. When it comes to aid, today we have a very difficult situation in which many people get to our country and are offered a sanctuary here. We'll be very proud of that. It is a matter of priority. We need to spend resources on this to manage to give people shelter and food for the day. There I know that the Swedish Democrats would have preferred to have seen that they had not come here at all. I remember a Twitter conversation we had earlier this fall. One of Marcus Wiechels's colleagues here in Parliament mixed the idea that there were 1 000 people a week with 1 000 people a day, or vice versa. Somewhere it sums up the policy of the Swedish Democrats. It does not matter to the Swedish Democrats whether there are 1 000 people a day, 1 000 people a week or even 1 000 people a year or every year. The difference is that the Swedish Democrats are against immigration in itself. You don't think anyone should come here and get protection. Therefore, it cannot be said that we have in any way approached you. As far as aid is concerned, I am very pleased that the government has recently presented a rather large investment of 800 million more in aid. It will go to UNHCR, which we know is doing a very important job, including in Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan, where many refugees are right now, but also other efforts that are very important for people not to have to flee in the future. It is simply prevention.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-473	Mr President, I would like to Magdalena Rasmusson knows very well that the Swedish Democrats represent a much more effective aid policy than the Green Party. She knows very well that in our proposals we spend much more money on real refugee aid to people. She also knows very well that we do not want to stop immigration. On the other hand, we want regulated immigration over which we have control. The problem now is that the government and also the previous government have long had completely uncontrolled immigration, which means that the costs run out. This has meant that the government is now – and we see it for the next year – raising taxes. Welfare is broken down, and municipalities and county councils ignore the government completely because of increased costs. In addition, the government will now borrow 10 billion to pay for something that we have long warned against. We have absolutely nothing against people from any other country. On the other hand, we are realists. We realise that if people come here who may find it difficult, above all, to enter the Swedish labour market, they also need to support them. We can't do that today. It is Swedish prosperity that makes effective aid possible. It doesn't seem like the Green Party really cared about that. In a previous replica between Magda and someone else, she made it clear that there should be a difference between those who have the right to be here and those who do not have the right to be here. Then I wonder how Magda can defend the fact that permitless people get privileges that not even Swedish citizens have.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-479	Mr President, I would like to That you would not have a different view of immigrants, I find it difficult to reconcile myself with, given the kind of party you were when your party leader chose to join the Swedish Democrats in 1994. You stand for a racist ideology that makes a difference to people and that has members who express themselves in a way that I could never even dream of talking about their fellows. There is talk of grasshoppers, that you breed like rabbits and all sorts of things. It is a human vision that I do not think belongs in a democracy at all. I know you would like to wash away this stamp of yourselves, but I do not think you will succeed in doing so. There are a little too many individual exceptions to avoid exposing these mistakes. Today we have people living in our country who have received a rejection decision and who therefore have no legal right to be here. But it is also people who have certain urgent needs. That is why I am pleased that we have had a system in which undocumented people can have access to healthcare and the like. I look forward to having it in the future as well.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-481	Mr President, I would like to Now the EU has decided to pay Turkey to hold back refugees. We are therefore paying a state that we know consistently violates human rights and where freedom of expression does not really exist. Turkey kills parts of the opposition and bombed and murdered the Kurdish population. There is no right of asylum, and Turkey is obviously allowing and looking between the fingers that IS is trading in oil. This also maintains parts of the war that is going on. I wonder how Magda views this.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-483	Mr President, I would like to I am well aware of the abuses committed in Turkey. I am also aware that many refugees are currently in Turkey. There are about 2.2 million Syrians, and we know that there are Afghans as well. These are people who simply have not been able to stay in their home country. It also makes me happy that we can provide funds to help those very refugees. That is also what makes me happy that we will be able to control what the funds are used for. This is a decision that was taken quite recently, and therefore it will be very important that we also decide in the near future exactly how we can manage the funds so that they are used properly and that the refugees will benefit.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-486	Mr President, I would like to I think it sounds a little naive. As we are already receiving reports of people being deported back to Syria, I find it difficult to see how the Green Party will be able to vouch for Erdo中an and a fundamentally fascist government. What are we going to see? We're already seeing push backs. What kind of permanent deportation camp are we talking about? We have also heard that Mr Erdo中an has said that he would like permanent camps in Syria, of course for his own internal political reasons. Mr President, I would like to This is about as clever as selling weapons to dictatorships, as we unfortunately do. You're involved in maintaining a spiral of violence. I find it very difficult to understand how the Green Party can agree to that.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-489	Mr President, I would like to I am the first to admit that the issues are complex. It is not always obvious how to act in a situation like this. At the same time, however, we must see that there are many refugees in Turkey right now. We were on a joint journey in Turkey last year and saw how to work with the refugees. I think everyone who was on the trip realized that much more needs to be done. The refugees need to have some kind of plan for their future, simply. They cannot only have temporary residence permits in all eternity, are isolated in refugee camps and the like. This is where we have an opportunity to influence this. The money should not be paid out to Erdo中an in private for him to be able to control them, but it should be directed and go to the refugees directly. So we can make sure to help these people so that children have access to school, for example, and that people have a something like that when tolerable life. It will be the top priority of the Green Party and also the government: the money will go to the refugees so that they will have a better life.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-493	Mr President, I would like to I would like to highlight something that I think Magda Rasmusson is doing well in her speech, first of all. It is a matter of highlighting the extremely important efforts that individual administrators in public authorities have made during the autumn and that also non-profit organisations and actors of various kinds in society have carried out during the autumn. I think it's important to do that. It is also about the responsibility that we all have in the future for the integration work to go together. It is a responsibility that lies at the level of the person. I'd like to ask you a question about something else. This is what Magda Rasmusson expresses in her speech and also in several of the lines. She almost disassociates herself from the politics of her own government; at least I feel that way. We had an alliance government for eight years between 2006 and 2014. The Christian Democrats were too small a party during that period. We had to compromise quite a lot, but at all times we stood up for the common policy. It was a rewarding and a take, so to speak. I think it is a bit dangerous to make such an open rejection of the policy of one's own government. I think it contributes to the government being seen as weaker. I know Magda Rasmusson will leave Parliament, but I'm sure she'll be back in the future. I would nevertheless like to ask: will we see more of this kind of rejection of the policies of our own government from the parliamentary groups of the government parties?
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-499	Mr President, I would like to I guess I'll just have to start by thanking you for the tip. It feels good that Aron Modig is protecting that the government will seem strong. There are always different types of decisions. I believe that, regardless of the government that would have sat today, it would have been difficult for many pa rtiers. The reason why I and many people in my party and in several other parties think it is important to point out that they do not support this policy and that they really want to see something else is that I am afraid that the policy will otherwise become permanent. We have a political landscape today in which several parties say that this is not even enough, but that they want to do more. I note, among other things, that it was the first reaction of Aron Modig's Prime Minister candidate to this. I believe that people in all parties who do not want this to be a permanent law have a huge responsibility to remind us why we do not think that politics itself is good, but that it should be temporary in a very acute and exceptional situation.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-502	Mr President, I would like to I understand what Magda Rasmusson says, but I still find this problematic. I would like to see another government in Sweden, but now we have the government we have. It is a difficult situation now, and no matter what government we have, it should be able to demonstrate its ability to act. I think that power of action will be weakened when the parliamentary groups of their own go out, and this is how openly protests against the government's policy. I noted in Magda Rasmusson's speech that the Member of Parliament spoke of smaller places where there has been a long period of emigration but where there is housing and people are now settling. That is a good thing, but the problem in many of these places is that the labour market is quite weak. There's not much work to be done. In the locality where I grew up, Söderhamn in Hälsingland, there have been many empty apartments that are now being filled, but the labour market is weak. There's a problem. The government is pursuing an integration and essentially anti-job policy with a lot of tax increases and a lot of new taxes. One of the government's support parties is the Left Party, and it seems that any tax that can be increased will be gladly increased, according to them. You just want everything, that's all. How is this supposed to work out?
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-506	Mr President, I would like to I think we should all be honest about the fact that we are going to have to do a lot of work here. The budget presented on 21 September came just before we saw the dramatic increase in the autumn, and we will do far more things than we have talked about so far. However, I am pleased that the government has already done a lot. For example, we are now finally getting a system in which all municipalities take responsibility. I think that is very good. It's about fast tracks that allow new arrivals with skills that we lack in the Swedish labour market can go into work faster. This is about an extended possibility for validation for the licence professions. It is also about things that we agreed with, among other things, the Christian Democrats just over a month ago, such as a broader RUT deduction, which I believe is important for newcomers' opportunities and which can also be seen as a business initiative. Then, of course, we also have packages for education in general. We know that many people who come here may have never actually been on a school bench before. Learning a new language is not easy, especially if you are a little older. Here the government has now made sure that you will learn Swedish from day one, and money is also invested in SFI education. So there is a lot going on, but I think there will have to be a lot more. I also see that the government has that picture of reality, and I am convinced that all parties will need to have more talks on this. I want it to be good in the end.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-511	Mr President, I would like to I'm worried about developments right now, and I think Magda Rasmusson is too. I have heard a lot of people say that the Green Party has agreed to this because of a desire for power, that it wants to sit in the government and so on. I don't think so. I believe that the Green Party believes that it has done something good, that it has been able to limit the bad and help to reduce the negative by agreeing to what the government is now proposing. I'm just wondering if you shouldn't think about it again. For what is the next step? We have a Minister for Migration who now says that the number must be down to 1 000 people a week in order for this to go. What, then, is the next step? How quickly will the Öresund Bridge be closed? How quickly will direct expulsion at the border be required? And what has the Green Party done to legitimise? I notice every day how voices are silenced in the debate. I see environmentalists who were previously persistently opposed and argued strongly and sharply now sit silently. It makes me worried and scared. I believe that there are far more than the environmental partners who have been silenced because of what the Green Party has now done in government. I just wish the Green Party could think another way. There's still a chance to back down. There is still a chance to press the 'no' button when this comes up in the Riksdag. We all have a personal responsibility.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-515	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by agreeing, because I am also concerned about future developments. Above all, I am perhaps not concerned because of the action of the Green Party, but because of the political reality in which we live. As I pointed out to Mr Aron, I see that we have several parties on the right that think that this is not enough and want to go further. In that situation, I had not felt it was responsible to back away from the opportunity to influence. Although I am just as worried as Mrs Johanna about silent votes and about the risk that there is always that it legitimises proposals that it is fundamentally against, I note that at this point the Center Party has not said anything about how it would have acted if it had been in government with, for example, the Moderates. We have a choice coming soon. Here you will have to choose a prime minister candidate, and at present the Moderates choose to run a line where you want to completely close the border. Of course, the Center Party will also be faced with elections. My main message to Johanna Jönsson and everyone else who wants to see an open and humane policy in the future consists of two parts. I think I already mentioned both. The first is that we continue to be as creative as we can just to expand the reception capacity so that this law at all has no chance of becoming permanent. The second is that we, just as Johanna Jönsson does every day – and I think you do it very well – continue to remind us why this is wrong. I think it will be important that we have strong voices that stand up for these issues in the future. I can promise that I will be one of them. I welcome the fact that the Centre Party also stands for a strong voice in that debate.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-519	Mr President, I would like to What is happening in the 2018 elections we can really only say about. Things are changing incredibly fast right now. Positions vary from day to day, and it is completely impossible to say how to move forward on various issues at all. It's gonna be a little weird to draw that parallel at this point. We have been clear on the part of the Center Party with where we stand in this question. Magda Rasmusson knows that as well as I do that we have been. What the Green Party has now chosen to do – that is where we stand, because you have already chosen this – is what we should be discussing. I still think you need to go home and think about another lap. Magda Rasmusson has the chance to take a stand, press another button and show that there is another way. The more we are who argue and show the other way, as the Green Party knows, the greater the chance that this is the path that Sweden will take, perhaps not now, but later on. Otherwise, the next step will inevitably come. I understand that the idea is that the Green Party may have saved some people and may have postponed development by a few weeks, but that will happen anyway. When do you put your heels on the ground, stop and say no? Please, think again!
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-523	Mr President, I would like to I do not believe that the action of the Green Party at this stage will, above all, ensure that we are able to cope with this situation. Instead, it is a question of increasing the capacity of the receiving system. Nevertheless, I still maintain that the political reality in which we live cannot be ignored. Of course you can always choose to stand outside. You can choose to say no, absolutely. We would have done so if we had thought that it would have helped refugees on their way to Europe right now. I don't think it would have helped. I can honestly admit that I and my party do not think it would have helped. If so, it would have been a much easier decision. I think Johanna Jönsson also realizes that it is not as easy as that if we just say no, we will be able to stop something very bad. In this situation, all the forces that want openness, even in the future, need to continue to do everything in our power to tear up this temporary law in Sweden as soon as possible. From our side, it will be in government.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-526	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the moderate reservation on the direction of policy to be adopted. Sweden should be a strong voice for peace, freedom and reconciliation. We shall promote democracy, human rights and sustainable development and assert international law and gender equality. In the situation that we now have in the world, it is work that is more important than it has been for many years. The aim is to help transform oppression into freedom, poverty into progress and waste of resources into sustainable development. The world is really more anxious and uncertain than for a very long time. We see everything from terrible acts of terror. We see the war in Syria and Iraq. We see Russian aggression against Ukraine, and we see increased tensions in the Baltic Sea region. An increasingly uncertain neighbourhood places great demands on Swedish domestic and foreign policy. At the same time, our safety is also affected by what is happening far away. Globalisation connects what is close to what is remote, and changes are accelerating. What was once separate areas, which could be labelled in a practical way as defence, security, climate and terror, are now parts of the same whole. We shall have the ability to prevent and manage the crises we face, and we shall do so together with others. It requires us to pursue an active and coherent foreign, defence and security policy aimed at safeguarding open society. These are fundamental values such as democracy, freedom, equality and respect for human rights. Above all, we shall continue to support people in countries where these values are now highly contested. Ideas that just a few years ago were supposed to be becoming widely accepted in the world – we saw democracy and human rights spreading – are now highly questionable. These are countries that have authoritarian regimes. We also see violent organizations. So there are forces working against what we want to spread. This makes it increasingly urgent that we, together with others, find answers to how to meet the challenges we now face. This area of expenditure is about how we interact with others, how we work within the framework of international organisations. This is particularly the case in Category 5. It is also where our membership fees and contributions, both to the UN and to other international organisations, come in. The international community must now rally around strong measures to combat ISIL, Daish, on the ground in Iraq and Syria. Sweden can and will help in this fight. For the first time, a country has requested support under the Treaty of Lisbon, under Article 42(7). So our willingness and ability to provide support are being tested at this point. Mr President, I would like to From the moderate point of view, I can see that, in order to meet not only the challenges of the future, but also those we are facing right now, we need better and stronger cooperation within the European Union. The EU is now under trial and has been in constant crisis management since the 2008 financial crisis. Nevertheless, it is through cooperation that we can face the various threats and solve the problems. In the field of foreign policy, the EU needs to become more active, to have a foreign policy that is better grounded and that is conducted consistently. I call for greater commitment from the government here. More attention should be paid to work within the EU, not least in the field of foreign and security policy. The UN and the UN Security Council have the highest responsibility for international peace and security. The UN must continue to be a cornerstone of our foreign policy. The UN, together with the EU, the OSSE and other international organisations, will continue to work actively to end wars and crises around the world. They shall promote peace, freedom and reconciliation. And Sweden will continue to be ready to participate with military capabilities in peace-promoting operations led by the UN, the EU or NATO around the world. But not least the war in Syria has shown that the UN Security Council and the UN as a whole are in need of reform. There is a need for a better functioning Security Council which is not paralyzed by the veto system, which can intervene in internal conflicts and which better reflects the world as it stands today. We also want to see a democratic requirement for membership of the Human Rights Council. We make demands in the UN for efficiency, transparency and values to play a role. Here Sweden has a good platform to stand on. As one of the largest contributors, we can play a role in the change of the UN. We also want to continue to strengthen Nordic cooperation. It is not a secret that the Moderates, and now the entire Alliance, want Sweden not only to deepen cooperation with NATO but also to look at how Sweden can become a member. Mr President, I would like to There's a lot to say. However, I will conclude here and once again ask for my reservation to be approved.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-540	Mr President, I would like to These are exciting times, also for a budget debate. I could agree with quite a lot of what Karin Enström said. But I hope that Karin Enström would also like to agree with motion 2015/ 16:3048 by Johanna Jönsson and others and her motion 14. This is a motion which I would like to highlight and which I would like the House to support. I therefore support Johanna Jönsson's motion. A country that is equipped when international competition hardens cannot close to the outside world. We live in a globalised world. Markets and labour markets are becoming increasingly borderless. Our future society needs to be shaped with the knowledge that people do not live in one place, or even in one country, throughout their lives. Already in the short term, there is a need for reform-oriented policies that can cope with increased migration in a sustainable manner. Totalitarian and oppressive regimes, violent conflicts, terrorism and serious human rights violations make 60 million people a fugitive in the world. This places great demands on the international community as well as on the EU and Sweden. Sweden needs to be an active partner in a global effort to reduce the number of conflicts and spread the liberal and democratic world globally. I hope Karin Enström will agree with that.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-545	Mr President, I would like to There is often a great deal of consensus between most parties on these issues, not least in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and, of course, within the Alliance. I do not know whether it would help formally to demand approval for a motion in a change of line. I would really like to emphasise the importance of good cooperation within the framework of the European Union but, of course, also in other international organisations in terms of how we are going to tackle the enormous challenge of the large number of refugees. There's something that's not going to go away. But I would also like to stress that Europe must be able to do other things at the same time. The other challenges, which I described earlier, have not disappeared. It is natural to have an issue on the agenda that overshadows everything else. However, for this to work in the future, the EU should be much better at being competitive and having a well-functioning education system. The EU must also be better at creating legal pathways for labour migration, circular migration and things that are not directly linked to refugees or migration resulting from wars and conflicts.
i-76K8VtaMqKgdjZZv9Lc9UL	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Karin Enström, for the comments! I would just like to emphasise the importance of Sweden as an example in the environmental field and, through concrete instruments, shows that economic growth, innovation and entrepreneurship go hand in hand with reduced emissions, reduced emissions of toxins and ecological balance. This is particularly important in the period we are now in, Mr President, with the Paris Summit, which we hope will lead to an agreement before it rings the bell. This is an important policy for creating well-being and security for everyone throughout the country. We would have liked a different budget and we had other figures in terms of international cooperation. We removed some of the increases in the budget that the government chose to impose on some of the institutions. Mr President, I would like to After all, the framework decision has already been taken, so we will have to look at this more as a specific opinion.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-553	Mr President, I would like to In an increasingly globalised world, Sweden must strive for good relations with the outside world. We need to show a picture of our country as a serious and credible partner, a country worth investing in or visiting, and a country that participates in efforts and research for a more peaceful world. Generally speaking, we are satisfied with how the government disposes of the appropriation for Category 5, International Cooperation, but I would still like to mention two initiatives that we propose and which we believe would be of great benefit to both Sweden and our partners. The Swedish Institute has the task of creating trust in Sweden and Swedish skills and laying the foundation for long-term relations between Sweden and the outside world. Through meetings, networking and dialogue with the outside world, the Institute contributes to development and creates trust in Sweden, which makes it easier for companies, universities, cultural institutions, municipalities and others who depend on Sweden's attractiveness. The Swedish Institute provides training for foreign citizens through its leadership programme, and today there is a network of scholarship recipients who have completed their education there. Many of the scholarship recipients have, or will receive, important positions, positions and functions in their home countries, both in the business community and in the public sector, for example within the diplomatic corps. This makes the network a major resource for Sweden, a resource that we Swedish democrats want to exploit more effectively. We therefore propose that the Swedish Institute develop an action plan for how Sweden can take advantage of this network, both from a diplomatic point of view and from a commercial point of view. We also want to see the Swedish Institute develop a communication plan and choose five to ten countries that you invest more in. That is why we have allocated an additional SEK 10 million annually in our draft budget for these purposes. The second initiative, Mr President, concerns Nordic cooperation. We Swedish democrats regard us in descending order as part of a Nordic, European, Western and global community. In line with this, we want to work in particular to strengthen Nordic identity and broaden and deepen Nordic cooperation. Our countries have a lot in common, and Nordic cooperation has been well established for a long time. Together, we are the world's tenth largest economy, and our countries are world leaders in many areas and in many contexts. The Nordic countries share common values and a common cultural heritage, but also the common features of the Nordic languages are a cornerstone of the community that binds the Nordic countries together. This is why we want to allocate extra funding of SEK 10 million to improve internal vocabulary and support efforts for cultural exchange. Mr President, I would like to We welcome the fact that the committee stresses the importance of the government making a statement of results in the field of expenditure that is logical, clear and that focuses on a statement of the actual results achieved by the government in relation to the objectives, and that the link between the objectives, results and the government's draft budget is clear and that they are presented with longer time series. This point was made last year. Regrettably, the committee has once again had to emphasise this. Let us hope that the government will now take on board the views of the committee and the Riksdag so that next year we will not have to repeat the importance of a proper report on the results. Since the framework for the area of expenditure has already been decided and we have proposed an extended framework, we are not taking part in the decision under paragraph 1 but instead have added a specific opinion to the report. Finally, I will set an example and not use all the minutes of my speaking time.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-564	Mr President, I would like to The Somali-British poet Warsan Shie has written: I pulled my fingers over the world and whispered: Where does it hurt? It replied: Everywhere, everywhere, everywhere. ..................................................... I don't think it's possible to better describe the feeling just this late autumn 2015, that it actually hurts everywhere in the world. We have a world where freedom goes back for the ninth year in a row. It is not possible to ignore our environment and say that we can manage ourselves in this situation. This year has shown that the world is coming to Sweden, and that no matter how much we politicians want Sweden to come to the world. In the work for peace and security, conflict resolution and international cooperation, the United Nations definitely has a special position. The UN will never be more than the Member States make it. We Liberals believe in the United Nations, but at the same time we will never turn a blind eye to the major problems facing the UN system. I am particularly concerned about the contradictions that exist between democracies and dictatorships, dictatorships that are allowed to influence work too much. There is a particular question mark around the Human Rights Council, which was once created with Jan Eliasson at the head. Dictatorships use the Council as a playground to the extent that the concept of human rights is at risk. There must be major reforms here, not least in the field of international cooperation, especially for those people who fall between the chairs every day. We Liberals believe that a strong UN could make a difference. But it requires reform of the institutions in New York and worldwide and better cooperation between the world's democracies. It is in collaboration with others that Sweden's security is best secured. We must be more supportive of those who are close to us in terms of value. The world's democracies are no longer a small minority in the north as a kind of Tolkien phylk. Democrats are everywhere, and there will never be democracy without democrats on the ground. After all, there are things that hurt the world. Many could cooperate more. For us Liberals, it is obvious that one of the ways forward is via NATO. In the light of what has happened – and continues to happen – in our own neighbourhood, it is clear that we can no longer say that we are standing in the middle between the West and Russia. Alliance freedom has always been a myth. But we are about to enter 2016, and this hypocrisy will have to end. Unlike the Red-Green Government, we Liberals believe that Russian action must have consequences for Sweden's security policy choices. Sweden is currently working very closely with NATO. But when the real decisions are to be made – also about the future of our neighbourhood – Sweden is excluded. We are in a security policy no man's country, one might say. It is a dangerous position for a small country with a vulnerable position. To deny the Swedish people the security guarantees from NATO resulting from membership is irresponsible. Nothing but NATO accession can improve our national security equally decisively. At the same time, the EU continues to be the most central forum for Sweden's foreign policy. We Liberals want Sweden to remain an active and committed Member State. This requires the government to push the cooperation forward. Europe is struggling with major problems, as we all know. It is at present not only a crisis of solidarity with all the people fleeing to Europe, but also a crisis of solidarity between European countries, as some refuse to take responsibility. We can be ashamed of certain European colleagues who are thumbs up on the EU's human rights basis. The EU must therefore create a robust system in which the EU's sinners are seen, examined and punished. Otherwise, Europe will be no more than the dream of Europe. On that, Sweden has everything to lose, and I hope the government realises that. To conclude, Mr President, we Liberals are historically used to working in a headwind when right-wing extremists, racists, communists and Islamists unite in their disgust with freedom. We want Sweden to continue to be a strong voice for democracy, human rights and gender equality in this difficult time. This applies in the EU, it applies in the UN and it applies in all other international organisations. This is especially true now that it hurts everywhere on the world map.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-582	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating Category 5 International Cooperation. It is an important budgetary area, which concerns Sweden's relations with and agreements with other states and international organisations. The aim is to ensure Sweden's interests in relations with other countries. What does it mean for us to safeguard Sweden's interests? Yes, it means defending and standing up for universal values, such as human rights, democracy and the rule of law, in order to help prevent, manage and resolve crises and conflicts, simply to contribute to a more peaceful and safer world. It is in Sweden's interest. We can best contribute through cooperation with others – together with our Nordic neighbours, within the EU, with the UN and with the OSSE, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Alone is not strong. In civil war Syria and through Islamic State, Daish, people are being killed, and people's right to life and dignity is being violated. In much of North Africa and the Middle East, the hopes of the Arab Spring have changed into despair. Christian and other religious minorities, women and civil society organisations face new opposition and repression. It is an increasingly troubled world, and in our absolute neighbourhood we see how Russian aggression against Ukraine has worsened the security policy situation in Europe. In the current state of instability, much more is required of international cooperation. In our particular opinion, we Christian Democrats have made it clear how we would have liked to see a different distribution of funds within this budget line. We believe that increased support for peace and security promotion is a necessity at a time of concern and when so many people are fleeing war, terror and persecution. We believe that Sweden should give priority to efforts to combat the terrible things that people are fleeing from. It is therefore of great importance that Sweden can continue to contribute to both established and new efforts in peace-promoting activities. The planning of international peace and security promotion efforts must take account of developments in the world, which may change rapidly. Through EU cooperation and through global and regional organisations, the pursuit of peace and security has a much stronger impact. Mr President, I would like to Common in the Swedish debate on security policy are today arguments such as the fact that freedom of alliance has served and still serves Sweden well, a kind of solo-strong-explanation. However, Swedish foreign policy is based on solidarity with other countries, which, through our own declaration of solidarity, the Treaty of Lisbon, is currently highly topical. Sweden is currently not a full member of a defence alliance, so it is even more important that Sweden acts in accordance with these declarations and acts in solidarity with the countries in crisis, whether it is an armed attack from foreign power, whether it is a question of terrorism or an environmental disaster. Mr President, I would like to Sweden will continue to have a high level of preparedness to contribute to EU military operations and will be a driving force in the development of the EU's crisis management capabilities. For example, the Christian Democrats believe that Sweden should be a driving force within the EU in order to bring about a review of the EU's fighting forces, known as battlegroups, who are in constant readiness to participate in a rapid and limited effort. However, these have never been used, and as a result the uncertainty surrounding the concept has increased. After the review, decisions must be taken if these forces are to play an increasingly active and prominent role, as the Christian Democrats would be well-off. The world around Europe has not become safer or more stable in recent years, on the contrary. Finally, in order to be able to face up to the challenges facing the world today, greater international cooperation is needed. We need to be more energetic. Then it is not good enough with a UN that cannot act on the basis of the right of veto. Then it is not good enough for a Europe that cannot stand up unitedly for its values. Then it is not good enough with a government that highlights Sweden as an independent voice. Sweden is dependent. Sweden is only strong and can achieve change in collaboration with others.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-593	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a small country in terms of population, but a large country in terms of surface area. Sweden is in an area where there have been major security policy challenges for a long time – no doubt. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is also a small country in a large and troubled world, which is currently characterised by wars and conflicts, by flows of refugees, by hunger, by a lack of democracy and by a wide range of other problems affecting our security. This also means that Sweden has a great need for global cooperation. We need and we have cooperation at the Nordic level. We need and we have cooperation at European level, including through the European Union. We need and we have global cooperation, especially in and through the UN. For a country like Sweden, all these collaborations and all these opportunities to raise our voice are crucial for our security and for our opportunity for international cooperation. The troubled world in which we live is marked by Russia's annexation of Crimea, aggression in Ukraine, the war in Syria, the hopelessness of the dictatorship in Eritrea and the wavering developments in Afghanistan – just to mention some of the problems that we struggle with almost every day in the Foreign Affairs Committee we have here in Parliament. In the vast majority of cases, we have a very broad political consensus in the Swedish Parliament and in the Swedish Foreign Affairs Committee between the eight parties present in the Riksdag on how Sweden should act. I believe, Mr President, that it is important politically to stick together in a troubled world. There are, of course, differences between our parties. Otherwise, we wouldn't have been eight different parties. There are differences also in our view of how things should be done in foreign policy and in our security policy. You shouldn't deny it or try to hide it. However, looking at the report from the Committee on Foreign Affairs today on Category 5, it is recognised that these differences, compared with the differences in perhaps many other countries, are relatively small. I have to say, I appreciate it. I appreciate the climate of cooperation and the tradition of broad consensus in foreign policy that exists in Sweden and that exists in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. We stand together in our position here in Sweden, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and in Parliament, for democracy and for the principles of the rule of law. That is what we should argue in our various international collaborations, in which we act. With this, Mr President, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the Committee on Foreign Affairs' report No 1.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-600	Mr President, I would like to Today we are going to debate the CU9 report of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which deals with the strengthening of the rights of passengers travelling by public transport. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. We in the committee are broadly in agreement, but there is a motion and a reservation. Traveling collectively is for many a condition for everyday life to work. To and from work, but also for private travel, it is important to have a functioning public transport system. Given the climate summit, which is taking place in Paris, it is also highly topical that we are involved in influencing the climate impact of the transport sector. There are many examples of how passengers are affected if public transport does not work. To achieve the Government's objective of significantly increasing the share of public transport passengers, it must also be attractive to travel collectively. The Government therefore proposes a law on passenger rights in local and regional public transport. It is a question of giving passengers the right to travel information, including the traffic services offered by a carrier and the disruption of traffic. The information shall be provided in the form most appropriate to enable travellers to access the information, and particular attention shall be paid to the needs of persons with disabilities. Travellers shall be entitled to compensation in the event of delays exceeding 20 minutes. A traveller shall be entitled to compensation for reasonable costs for other transport, including transport by his own vehicle, in order to reach the final destination of the journey. The maximum compensation for such a cost shall be one fortyth of the amount of the price base. At present it is SEK 1 100. If a traveller does not claim compensation for a cost for another transport, the traveller shall instead be entitled to a reduction in the price if the journey is actually delayed to the final destination. In addition, the Act grants a passenger who has bought a ticket valid for a certain period of time the right to receive the refund if the carrier's range of services changes after the purchase and the change is of significant importance to the traveller.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-607	This change will strengthen passengers' rights in relation to the general travel conditions applied by carriers and to the travel information right legislation that has been in force so far. The carrier's liability in case of delay applies regardless of whether the carrier has caused the delay or not. The change is proposed to enter into force on 1 April 2016.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-608	Mr President, I would like to Between Uppsala and Stockholm, approximately 40,000 people commute daily. I myself commute between Enköping and Stockholm. There are also a lot of people commuting there. I, like all commuters, know what challenges we sometimes face. More and more commute today, and more travel collectively. We think this is a good thing, but it is essential that punctuality and road safety work. And it is necessary to improve it. Today we are not going to discuss more tracks or more trains or more competitors on the tracks, but we are going to discuss increased rights for public transport passengers. For this, Mr President, a new law is proposed which gives all public transport passengers greater rights regardless of the mode of transport. I would like to make three points: delays, travel information and so-called force majeure. First of all, there are delays, to which we all certainly have a relationship, even if we do not commute on a daily basis. Maybe it's not always a positive relationship. Many carriers today have so-called travel guarantees. It has largely worked well, but it has not been enough, and it has not been uniform. This new law implements mandatory rules. In particular, a statutory minimum right to compensation is introduced in the event of delays exceeding 20 minutes. The law also states how the compensation should be calculated and what is a delay and not. I think the proposal is good, although I have had a lot of thoughts about different balances. This includes the proposal that different types of rules should apply depending on which train or bus you jump on. The new law applies to journeys of less than 150 kilometres. I think that's good. However, if the train you are jumping on has travelled more than 150 kilometres, it is not this law that will apply without the Train Passengers Regulation. The Train Passengers Regulation is certainly also a good right law for public transport passengers, but it does not provide for compensation in the event of delays of less than 60 minutes. This may mean a great deal of confusion for us consumers and travellers. This leads me to take up the next part, i.e. travel information. The proposal is for the carrier to be responsible for providing travel information to passengers, including on delays. I have to admit that sometimes it is not simply being a traveler, even if you are a used commuter. It is then very important that you get information about delays, operational disruptions and planned maintenance so that you can plan your trip. Today, technology has been developed. It has gone quickly, and many carriers are doing well, but now it becomes a legal obligation, which I think is a good step in the right direction. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say a few words about the liability of the carrier in the event of delays due to circumstances which the carrier has not been able to avoid, so-called force majeure. In the regulation I have just mentioned concerning the rights of long-distance public transport passengers, there is no exception for force majeure. The law that we are now debating and will decide is complementary to these different regulations – there are more than the one I mentioned – and I think it is reasonable that these are the same rules that apply. However, there are problems for carriers with regard to regression rights. The Railway Traffic Investigation contains a proposal on how this could be regulated, i.e. that the infrastructure manager should have a regressive responsibility. According to the government, this is now being prepared in the Government Office. I assume that the Government is working on the matter quickly and will return to the Riksdag with a bill. With that, Mr President, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject the motion.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-621	Mr President, I would like to The Government proposal aimed at strengthening public transport passengers' right to compensation in the event of delays is something that has long been demanded by all those who have ever waited for delayed trains and buses in the winter cold. Today, travellers are usually entirely in the hands of the good will of the companies when they claim compensation for a delayed or cancelled trip. The liberalisation of public transport and the fact that we are currently paying considerably more for public transport than before have neither led to greater reliability nor increased quality. In order to achieve an ecologically sustainable transport system, the share of public transport travel needs to be increased. With an increased share of collective travel, climate impacts can be reduced and noise and air pollution reduced. In addition, congestion in our big cities can be significantly reduced. The Government's current legislative proposal strengthens the rights of public transport passengers and is a step in the right direction towards putting passengers at the centre. The Left Party has therefore chosen to support the bill. The Left Party shares the Government's view that a well-functioning public transport system is necessary to cope with both work commuting and leisure travel and that it is absolutely necessary for us to get up travelling by public transport. To achieve this objective, we must of course have a public transport system that really works as well as possible. A well-functioning public transport system will of course mean that more people choose to travel collectively. In this context, it is important to strengthen the rights of passengers. The new legislative proposal strengthens passenger rights in local and regional public transport by obliging the carrier to inform about traffic disruptions. This gives the right to compensation in the event of delays exceeding 20 minutes and also gives the traveller the opportunity to get the money back if the traffic supply changes after the purchase if the changes are significant. The Left Party welcomes the proposals but lacks an important group of passengers in the proposal, namely the rather large group that makes use of travel services. We find it difficult to understand why this group of travellers is not covered by the new legislative proposal. In our view, the starting point should be that equal travel rights should apply to local and regional public transport. Therefore, passengers travelling on travel and pre-paid sick journeys should also be subject to the provisions of the new Act on the right to travel information, compensation in the event of delays, etc. The fact that such travel takes place under certain conditions other than other public transport journeys does not have to be an obstacle to this. For example, the self-contribution paid by passengers on travel and pre-paid sick trips could provide a basis for calculating compensation in the same way as the ticket price for other public transport. In addition, there are already many transport operators in the so-called special public transport system who offer various forms of travel guarantees entitled to reimbursement in the event of delays in a journey or pre-ordered sick leave. This supports the fact that it is perfectly possible to include such journeys in the Act on the Rights of Public Transport Passengers. It should also be pointed out that the study on a new Public Transport Act proposed in its final report that both travel and pre-paid sick journeys should be covered by the new Act. My starting point is that equal travel rights apply to local and regional public transport regardless of the form of transport. I therefore propose that travel and medical travel coordinated, for example via an ordering centre, should be subject to the Traveller Rights Act in local and regional public transport. ..................................................... When the report was referred to, several consultation bodies were also in favour of such a system. I therefore support the Left Party's reservation that travel services and pre-paid sick trips should also be covered by the Public Transport Passengers' Rights Act.
i-UadiDLpeXrBZzQFFqha9YU	Mr President, I would like to I am in favour of reservation 1 in the Sku8 report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the taxation of security reserves. Security reserve is a phenomenon that exists to allow non-life insurance companies to save risk premiums with the stated aim of creating a security to be able to cope with their commitments to their policyholders in particularly difficult and acute damage situations. It is tax-free savings, surrounded by a number of restrictions, which can only be used for this purpose. So the security reserve is there to protect policyholders. It is in this light to see the current bill. Mr President, I would like to The proposal makes life more uncertain for non-life insurance companies' customers. I do not think that was the intention when work on the bill began, but it is the actual result if the Riksdag decides to implement the proposed legislative changes. If you want continued good security for policyholders, vote in favour of our reservation instead. It is partly based on the observations made by the Law Council on the matter. The Swedish Democrats are on the side of non-life insurance companies' customers. The other parties support the ideology of insensitive tax collection. The draft law deals in particular with two problematic situations where an insurance company is in a start-up or completed insolvency or if the construction of a company is changed by merger or division. The third proposal concerns the dissolution of the reserve as the company will no longer be taxed in Sweden. That part is trivial and okay. The substantive proposals contained in the other parts, which I have mentioned above, mean that, in a difficult situation for a non-life insurance company, there is a risk that individual policyholders will be put in a very worrying position without compensation, or a very limited one, for which premiums have been paid to their insurance company. This is done by, instead of delaying the taxation of a security reserve until insurance contracts are eliminated, wanting to directly tax resources that may be needed to enable, for example, a receiver to comply with the contracts that a non-life insurance company in default has left. Those who take the fall will be the individual policyholders. If a non-life insurance company is bought in or divided, the insurance contracts that were the starting point for the building-up of the security reserve remain in place. In this situation, the reserve should be able to be transferred to a new organisation that takes over the business. It is important to understand what the security reserve is for and not fall into the trap of insensitive taxation in the way the government does in this proposal. Among other things, the Law Council says that in situations where the insolvency administrator chooses to continue operating the business and in situations where the liquidator transfers the entire insurance portfolio to another insurance company, the entire insurance portfolio is not developed in the legislative referral. It is therefore most remarkable, Mr President, that the government writes that it has followed the Council's views when it is clear that it has not done so. It is easy to see because the analysis called for by the Law Council is not contained in either the bill or in the report. I wonder what it is because such an arrogant stance is taken against the Law Council in such a situation, when reality is so easy to control. Perhaps Leif Jacobsson from the Social Democrats will be able to develop that part of his speech in a little while. That would be interesting. I had hoped that also the registered speaker from the Alliance, Per Åsling, would be here to explain, but we will have to take that another time. It would be interesting to get the explanation because the Alliance and the other parties have not seen the problem, even though we have put it before them in our motion. In the motion we point to the fact that this rule in the bill risks putting individual policyholders in very difficult situations. Thus, the entire sick leaf can imagine cold use of the accident of individuals in an emergency. It's called turning on those who are already lying! I think that is an interesting message to those who listen to this debate, unless we have the opposite reaction in the subsequent comments. Mr President, I would like to Finally, let me say a few words about the link with the regulatory framework for accrual funds, which is also covered in the report. The government has also stated that it believes that there is no reason to treat the security reserve in any other way than that of so-called accrual funds. Here, too, the Law Council has called for an investigation into how to look at the issue. I understand that because accrual funds and security reserves have no real mechanism in common other than that they are tax-free. This report is also absent from both the proposal and the report, probably because it recognises that the argument does not hold up. A accrual fund is a way of shifting profit taxation between different business years in a company. The accrual fund is set off in the declaration as a balance sheet disposition and is surrounded by a precise regulatory framework so that it will not be possible to keep the untaxed reserve indefinitely. It is also associated with an interest rate cost to keep a accrual fund alive. It therefore aims at a general performance regulation mechanism to ensure that taxation is as uniform as possible in a company. On the other hand, as I have already explained, the security reserve aims to ensure that the insurance company's customers are able to obtain compensation for their claims on particularly urgent occasions and situations. So they have nothing to do with each other, and the attempts to equate the two are totally irrelevant. This, too, would be interesting to have Leif Jakobsson's views on.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-644	Mr President, I would like to The bill is about when the security reserve in insurance companies should be taken up for taxation. I naturally support the proposal in the report, which the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has broadly agreed. I listened to Olle Felten, who left a reservation. I could hear that there are a few different points of departure. For example, Olle Felten said that the security reserve is tax-free. No, that's not what it's about. The security reserve is a tax credit, i.e. tax that has not been paid in. Then it is very reasonable that when the type of event that is regulated, as is clear in the bill, for example that a company with such a tax credit is sold abroad, the reserve is taken up for tax purposes. When such a company ceases its insurance business, as is the case in both merger and division, it is certainly very reasonable for the tax credit to be repaid. I think that the comparison made by the government with accrual funds is highly relevant. The reserve exists for the moment when a real insurance company is faced with large claims and is in a difficult situation. The security reserve is, of course, a way of equalising the result. It's a tax credit, and tax credits are to be recovered. That is why, Mr President, I call for the proposal in the report to be approved.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-648	Mr President, I would like to In fact, I think Leif Jakobsson misunderstood my speech. I'm not saying the security reserve is tax-free. On the contrary, it is an untaxed reserve. I think I used that name, and that's the usual name. This means putting money into a fund in order to be able to pay certain specific claims settlement costs to their customers in particularly acute cases. It is in order that it may be possible to complete its contracts that the provision is tax-free until it is dissolved or has been used. This means, in practice, that when the damage occurs that the reserve can be used to collect the money that you have not paid tax for and replace the customers. So there will be a cost in the company. It's deductible in the business. This means that at the same time as the cost arises, the withdrawal from the reserve is lifted as a revenue. This means that there will be a tax on the amount that has been set off in the past. That is exactly how that reserve should be used. In the case of provisioning to accrual funds, there is a pre-determined rule on when to dissolve them. It is not for a specific occasion; it is a tough and strictly regulated regime for the dissolution of accrual funds. They have nothing to do with specific events. It is a purely profit-and-loss issue that is used to achieve a more even taxation in the company. It is an important function, but it has nothing to do with the conditions and functions of the security reserve.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-652	Mr President, I would like to I reacted because I heard Olle Felten say that the security reserve is tax-free. But then I guess it was a misstatement. Let's take a look at the protocol. This is about the basic attitude. It is simply to be read in the report, namely that insurance companies have an additional reservation facility through the security reserve. It complements the actuarial liabilities and also aims to offset the large variation in the performance of a non-life insurance undertaking from year to year. It is the same purpose as accrual funds. That's obvious, isn't it? We think that when an insurance company that has a tax credit ceases to be an insurance company, the money should be paid in buts. That is our position.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-655	Mr President, I would like to There is some sort of theoretical similarity between functions because there are untaxed provisions that can then be taken up for taxation when they are used. The function of the accrual fund is general and the security reserve is specific. This means that the conditions are completely different. To force a non-life insurance company in default, which is run by a liquidator, to directly estimate its provisions in the security reserve means putting the insurance company's customers at risk because there may not be any money to pay out in a claim case in that situation. In this case, the business is continued, as in the past, but under the direction of the insolvency administrator. This reduces the insolvency administrator's ability to get a good closure and sell the business. It further harms policyholders. If the insolvency administrator has the opportunity to sell the company to another operator – it may be divided into parts – the insurance agreements will remain. It also hits policyholders by having to remove the security reserve that is built up to manage the contracts they have previously signed for customers. For the good of the customers, you have to keep this.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-659	Mr President, I would like to In the end, the question is whether it is the State that should bear those losses. We do not think so. After all, in the event of the bankruptcy of a non-life insurance company and the purchase of parts of the business by someone else with an insurance licence that runs the business further, the new owner can use the security reserves by increasing its level of coverage in relation to the contracts they buy. Mr President, I would like to I therefore support the proposal contained in the report.
i-La4T9Mj26hGhfA2LBQ44Ar	Mr President, I would like to I am in favour of reservation 1 in the Sku13 report by the Committee on Taxation, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on certain issues relating to indirect taxation. The bill deals with a total of about ten different proposals for legislative changes regarding indirect taxes. Most of the proposals we have no major objections to, but we support the proposals put forward in the report. Our reservation concerns three points where we believe there are good reasons for rejecting the report's proposal. Instead, we make alternative proposals for amendments in these three respects. The first and most important of the points we have concerns the so-called withdrawal tax, that is, paragraph 7 of the bill. The taxation of withdrawals is a strange idea and basically an unjustifiable extra-taxation of companies that choose to pursue different activities in the same company rather than buying services from external companies. There are many good reasons to want to manage their activities in this way, not least to create a rational organisation where you can use your staff in an optimal way. It is therefore an irrational and counterproductive rule to punish these companies with a tax cost that is not relevant. The argument about withdrawal taxation is usually that it would be unfair not to pay VAT on your own efforts in relation to having to pay VAT on purchased services. A tightening up of the issue would lead to a completely unsustainable series of VAT levies within any company that is not liable for VAT accounting. It would be a totally unsustainable situation if VAT taxation were to start between all possible services and functions on the same basis in one and the same company. I don't think anyone wants such an order, because it would be total chaos. The Swedish VAT Act exempts municipalities from this collection tax, which in itself distorts competition between private and municipal property owners. However, the State is not excluded. This is because, when this law was established, it did not seem to have any effect, since the VAT compensation system for the State does not impose VAT on the State. However, it has been shown that the tax on withdrawals does not fall within the definition of input tax, which means that, in this particular respect, the State suffers from the VAT cost if it has its own staff. This is considered by the government to be an injustice to the state in relation to the municipalities, which are exempt. What makes this government proposal illogical and wrong is that it does not have the same reasoning for private operators. It can therefore be concluded that the government only cares about the state's economy and closes its eyes to the fact that private companies face the same problems as the state in this case. That, Mr President, is a short-sighted and serious anti-business mistake. The Swedish Democrats believe that the withdrawal tax on real estate services constitutes an incorrect extra taxation that harms companies that have a greater ambition with their business. The VAT Directive – 2006/ 112/ EC, Article 27 – establishes a right for Member States to introduce such a charge. However, there is no obligation to do so under the Directive. Sweden must ensure the best interests of Swedish companies and therefore use the legislation to create the best possible conditions within the existing framework. This means, among other things, that unnecessary charges should be abolished. The tax on withdrawals is definitely one of these. It should be completely abolished. We therefore call on the government to urgently come back with a proposal to completely abolish withdrawal taxes for all operators and situations. The second proposal we have comments on is paragraph 5 of the bill, which deals with certain conditions in the case of the temporary circulation of new means of transport. We broadly agree with the proposals made by the Government on this point, in addition to the issue of late voluntary declarations. This is a very strange story, because if you don't file a voluntary declaration, you should get a late fee. It shouldn't be hard to see that you should get rid of these crazinesses. We agree that a delay fee should not be charged but believe that the Government's reasoning means that it could occur in other contexts, not least if it concerns legal persons. The government should take this opportunity to introduce a general rule that late payment fees cannot be charged for voluntary documents submitted late to the tax authority or other authorities. The Swedish Tax Agency has pointed out in its referral that the application for a refund is a right for the individual and that the submission of a declaration is therefore voluntary. The Swedish Tax Agency therefore proposes that a late payment fee should not be charged. The government must take this on board and introduce a general rule that this should be the case. Our third point is paragraph 12 of the bill. There, the Government proposes that the so-called lockdown rule, which provides for the possibility of equalising outgoing tax in Swedish groups, should be abolished. This possibility has been challenged by HD on the basis of the EU VAT Directive. The government now wants to abolish the lockdown rule without compensating companies for the costs it will entail. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the Swedish Bankers' Association has therefore proposed that the lock-out rule should remain in place until the provisions on group registration have been investigated and current deficiencies corrected. This is a very reasonable approach that we support. The current proposal creates concerns and increased costs for businesses – costs that will ultimately be passed on to consumers. That is not acceptable.
i-2cdb75a67d9de3c4-681	Mr President, I would like to I am in favour of the proposal in the report we are dealing with today, certain issues in the area of indirect taxation. It is quite frequent for the Tax Committee to make minor changes to tax laws as the legal situation and the outside world change, not least in the case of errors and misuses in relation to the spirit of tax laws. We believe that the government has argued in an exemplary way for the various parts. The background is comments from the Swedish National Audit Office and court rulings in the Supreme Administrative Court. Of course, EU law also plays a role in the area of lock rules. In many of these questions, a solid investigation is being carried out. It is referred and considered. It is clear that during referrals there may be some different opinion about one or the other. We have a largely unanimous committee behind this report. It is only the Swedish Democrats who disagree, and they have it in areas in which the government really does not propose anything. I believe that several of the proposals contained in the Swedish Democrats' reservation are more appropriate during the general exercise and in the budget reading. For example, we are not dealing with the issue of withdrawal taxation on real estate services in general, but only with the question of whether or not the state should have an exemption. As far as the lockdown rule is concerned, the assessment is that we cannot keep it, and we therefore propose that it be abolished. Not only in this report, but throughout, the Swedish Democrats say that they want to relieve companies of tax costs and that it would naturally be business promotion. I think it's a dangerous road. I can understand, however, that the Swedish Democrats must reduce government expenditure considerably. It is well in that light that we shall see the proposals to reduce aid to municipalities and county councils by 90 billion. My municipality of residence would lose 2 billion in four years, which means that some thousands of municipal employees in preschools, elderly care and other things would have to be laid off. On the plus side, Olle Felten and others can say that they lower taxes and allow more exemptions for companies. There are different policies, and in this way you show where you stand and what you want with your policy.
