i-8eafe31059d48331-4	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Linde has asked me what initiatives I intend to take to ensure that Sweden, individually as well as a member of the European Union and the United Nations, supports the reform efforts in Iraq and the attempts to build a civil and secular Iraqi state, and that security and freedom of assembly are guaranteed to those Iraqis who are now demonstrating for change. I share the questioner's concern about developments in Iraq, which are facing decisive choices. The security situation is strained, and the level of violence in the country is high with continued unprecedented brutality on the part of Isil. The UN mission in Iraq estimates that approximately 10 000 people were killed in the first nine months of the year. Ethnic and religious minorities, as well as women and children, are particularly affected by Isil's gross abuse. Prime Minister Al-Abadi has presented welcome political and economic reform proposals, but there are many challenges to implementation. The necessary reconciliation process between Sunni, Shia and Kurds suffers from a lack of commitment from all groups and internal power struggles within the groups. Even within Kurdish regional self-government, we note increased internal contradictions and the same popular dissatisfaction as in the rest of Iraq in terms of halted political, economic and social reforms. Sweden has a broad and long-term commitment to Iraq. It follows three main lines: political, humanitarian and military. The political track aims to support the resolution of Iraq's many challenges in dialogue and reconciliation between the country's various religious and ethnic groups. The stabilisation of Iraq and the consolidation of democracy must ultimately be based on an inclusive political process. Without this, national reconciliation and unity spanning ethnic and religious differences will remain distant goals. This is something I and the Minister of Defence stressed throughout last week in our talks with representatives of the Iraqi Government as well as with representatives of Kurdish self-government in Erbil. We also stressed the importance of full respect for human rights, including the improvement of the situation of women in Iraq, as well as compliance with the principles of the rule of law. We also showed our support for the democratic process and the diversity of society in the context of special meetings with representatives of civil society and minority groups. Madam President, I would like Our support for Iraq also takes the form of comprehensive humanitarian aid. Since the conflict in Iraq broke out in early 2014, Sweden has contributed over SEK 300 million in humanitarian aid. We also intend to contribute a significant amount to the United Nations Fund for the Stabilisation of Areas Freed from ISIL. Due to the serious situation in Iraq, the government decided earlier this year to extend the phasing-out of bilateral assistance to Iraq until 2016 by allocating SEK 40 million to two operations that contribute to strengthening central and local government in Iraq. The EU has stepped up its efforts in the field of counter-terrorism and humanitarian issues, among others. In March 2015, EU foreign ministers adopted a regional strategy for Syria, Iraq and the threat from ISIL. Finally, Sweden also provides military support through the international coalition with some 60 countries supporting Iraq in the fight against ISIL. Since August this year, Sweden has contributed a military training grant to the efforts of the coalition at the invitation of the Iraqi Government. The main tasks of the Swedish force, which consists of 35 people, are education and advice to the Iraqi defence forces in northern Iraq. Sweden also participates in the coalition's stabilisation task force, which focuses on the areas that have been freed from ISIL.
i-8eafe31059d48331-12	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Foreign Minister Wallström for a positive response in many ways. Unfortunately, as has been pointed out, Mr Linde was unable to attend today, so I have promised to take care of this interpellation debate instead. It is good that the Foreign Minister shares our concern about developments in Iraq, where violence continues to reap thousands of lives. Of course, particularly worrying is the unimaginable brutality of the Daesh/ IS terrorist group, where various minorities, women and LGBT people are particularly vulnerable. Girls and women have largely become victims of human trafficking, forced marriages and pure slavery. LGBTQ people have become victims of spectacular executions, among other things. Iraq is still characterised by the US attack wars of 2003, by the destructive interference of neighbouring countries in Iraq and by the fact that after the occupation governments have pursued a sectarian policy in which different groups in Iraqi society have been pitted against each other. If developments in Iraq are to reverse, the government in Baghdad must show in words and deeds that it is a government for the whole country. After decades of violence, authoritarian rule and internal contradictions, new leadership and reforms are now needed that can lead to reconciliation and collection. I fully agree with Mrs Wallström that Iraq's many challenges must be resolved in dialogue with and reconciliation between its various religious and ethnic groups. However, we must also remember that a decisive responsibility rests with the Iraqi Government if this is to be possible. In July this year, popular and peaceful protests began to spread across Iraq. The root cause was a strong popular dissatisfaction with the country's political system, where power was distributed according to ethnicity and religion and where the people's ability to influence has been limited. Moreover, in the wake of the fall in oil prices, many Iraqis have been forced into poverty. In Baghdad, the demonstrations have gathered up to 80 000 people Friday after Friday. However, demonstrations have also taken place in all parts of Iraq that are not controlled by Daesh/ IS. The demonstrations have been dominated by young people but have brought together men and women from all ethnic and religious groups in Iraq. Iraq's Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi responded to the protests by presenting three reform packages that are moving in the right direction and opening up to a civilian and secular Iraqi state without today's sectarian division of power. For the first time in many years, the widespread popular protests in Iraq and the Al-Abadi reform package give some hope. But if this hope is to be fulfilled, it is also important how the outside world acts. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether Sweden intends to take further initiatives, bilaterally and in various international contexts, to ensure that peaceful demonstrators are guaranteed freedom of assembly and security.
i-8eafe31059d48331-20	Madam President, I would like This was a comprehensive answer to the question, and I think that Sweden, although we are a small country, has put on the leadership shirt in this situation, in place when both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence went down and with the Minister for Foreign Affairs pushing these issues also at UN level. Although Syria has been the focus when it comes to IS and war, Iraq is also very hard hit. You realize that when you see a map of where IS is established and has taken power. In Syria it is a larger area, but it is actually very large areas in Iraq too, and it is always an ongoing struggle where they risk taking over domination. There are also major problems with the regime in Iraq. It is under severe pressure from the situation, but it is not acceptable that the regime does not guarantee human rights. The situation of minorities has worsened, even in areas not controlled by IS. There are many different groups in Iraq, and that should not be a problem. Minorities should be able to live side by side. In this situation, however, minorities are the hardest hit. There is talk of Kurds and other groups. Of course there are religious minorities. The Yazidians are one of the most affected groups. Furthermore, there are Christians and LGBTQ people. People are also affected. Both the people themselves and religion can record. For example, there is a Palestinian group in Iraq that is having a difficult time right now. Recently, a Norwegian report was presented showing that the group is suffering from systematic harassment. It is not only linked to IS, it is also a matter of police and military. There are roadblocks, and there are kidnappings, physical violence and disappearances. It's all kinds of misery. Some of these people have been granted a residence permit in Sweden after a long waiting period. Women are a hard-hit group. It's visible in general. There are strong patriarchal structures in society. Unfortunately, they are reinforced in this threat full and under pressure. IS is of course the greatest threat to women. In villages in Iraq where there are Yazidi, rape factories have been started. Girls and women are for the IS warriors, and they are also for sale. There are even manuals on how to handle sales. These rapes can be described as a form of terrorism. Rape is usually considered a natural part of war, which is a strange sight. It is one of the worst abuses that anyone can be subjected to, and it becomes a way of exposing the whole group to abuse. The girls and women are, of course, the worst hit, but it hits entire communities hard. That is why this must be highlighted. I know that the Minister for Foreign Affairs clearly states that this must not in any way be ignored, but, on the contrary, must be combated.
i-8eafe31059d48331-28	Madam President, I would like I thank both Lotta Johnsson Fornarve and Hillevi Larsson for being so knowledgeable as to complement the picture that I gave in my formal answer. Let me be a little personal. The Secretary of Defense and I visited Baghdad and our forces in Erbil. The impression was exactly what you gave here. This is about the serious security situation. Every day, bombings and terrorist attacks take place in Baghdad, with which people will live. It is entirely arbitrary where they take place, and they put everyone in constant readiness and fear of what may happen. It is about the economic crisis and the low oil prices. This means that the treasury has been drained of money, and everything is scarce. It is difficult to maintain all public service. In addition, there are somewhere between 1.7 and 1.8 million refugees in the country who also live in scarce circumstances. Several participants in our meetings discussed how these attacks also affect women. It is an increased level of violence that brutalises the whole of society, and it often affects women. It was a recurring problem, except that violence manifests in how Daesh captures, not least, Yazidian women and sells them – a sort of slave market in 2015. We have later at a meeting with yazidier in Borlänge met with doctors who have come to Sweden. It was an important meeting for us, where we could hear even more about what they can report. Women are being sold, and it is the future of the entire minority group that is being undermined and destroyed – not to mention the lives of these young girls. Whenever we travel on these trips, we ask to meet representatives of both civil society organisations and minorities. We sat with them privately to hear how Turkmens and Assyrians have it too. These were essential talks for us, because they gave a picture of all the challenges that Iraq is facing. Sweden is one of the largest donors of unallocated aid to UNHCR. Since last year, Sweden has contributed more than SEK 300 million in humanitarian aid, and we are also planning a significant contribution to UNDP's stabilisation fund. It is also part of the coalition's work against ISIL to stabilise areas. Then there are two Sida projects dealing with political capacity building and securing local government in two provinces. It is an important part of our policy. Today, almost 2% of our population has roots in Iraq. It means a lot to us today that we have those contacts. When we came to Baghdad there were several people who spoke Swedish there. They also work politically. This is shown once again by the links between Sweden and Iraq. It is important that we continue to engage.
i-8eafe31059d48331-35	Madam President, I would like It is good that the Foreign Minister stressed in the talks the importance of reconciliation and stressed the importance of full respect for human rights and that you stressed in particular the importance of improving the situation of women in relations with representatives of the Iraqi Government and representatives of Kurdish self-government in Erbil. I was also pleased that you met representatives of civil society and minority groups. It's important. As the Foreign Minister describes, we see that violence against women is widespread. The position of women in conflict-affected Iraq has steadily deteriorated. Many women today live under constant threats to their own safety. Among other things, women who run for office in political elections have been threatened by extreme religious groups who believe that women should stay at home. Against this background, it is gratifying to see that Iraqi women are also taking part in popular demonstrations and are taking an increasing place in the major demonstrations that began in July and are still ongoing. They take their place in the pulpit, at press conferences and they speak in the media. Unfortunately, they have been subjected to both harassment and threats during these activities. A recent report published by Human Rights Watch shows how security forces have attacked demonstrators without motive. Men claiming to be intelligence officers have attacked and kidnapped peaceful demonstrators. The report deals with a number of specific cases involving people who have been attacked, abused and imprisoned. Prosecutors have so far failed to respond to legal complaints from the victims about the attacks. This shows how important the support of the outside world is. International support is needed to ensure the safety and security of demonstrators. We must never ever accept that people are subjected to violence and aggression when they exercise their democratic right to demonstrate by peaceful means for change. When this happens, the outside world must act. As Mrs Wallström said during her visit, the principles of the rule of law must be respected. It is clear that there are major shortcomings in the Iraqi legal system. The Left Party believes that Swedish aid is important. If used correctly, it can contribute to democratic development, peace, equality and equality. We think it is good that Sweden provides generous aid to Iraq. It is good that the government has decided not to phase out bilateral development cooperation with Iraq as quickly as the previous bourgeois government had planned. It is wise not to leave Iraq when it is in a very difficult situation. I also hope that Sweden will continue to be a generous donor and will not allow more of the aid to stay in Sweden.
i-8eafe31059d48331-44	Madam President, I would like Yes, it's a difficult situation. We have both the urgent needs, not least the humanitarian ones, and the threat of IS taking over larger areas. But we also have long-term needs. It is not possible overnight to build democracy, prosperity and a functioning society. Unfortunately, this is being destroyed in the process. The same applies to rehabilitation for those who have been prisoners of IS. Of course, it is amazing with everyone you can free, but it can be a long journey back to a good life. It may be girls who are in their lower teens or even younger ones who have been trapped in this rape industry. They may have been sold several times and be horribly traumatized. Often there is a double trauma, both of the abuse that has been committed and of guilt and shame. It is a pattern that repeats all over the world when it comes to sexual abuse – that you also live with guilt and shame. It may even be the outside world that blames the victim. O ch o intended who gets the blame, it can be difficult for these girls and women to continue life as it was before. I know there are projects that try to rehabilitate these girls. It's not an easy trip, but we're gonna do everything we can. At this point, humanitarian needs are felt to be urgent. When winter comes, there is a risk that those who are already hard hit will get even worse. This applies not least to all internally displaced persons. When the cold comes, there's a risk of people freezing to death. I am proud that Sweden provides such a large amount of humanitarian aid. Nor must we forget that we accept refugees. It's hugely crucial.
i-8eafe31059d48331-49	Madam President, I would like To start where Hillevi Larsson ended: In our talks in both Baghdad and Erbil we discussed women's situation in Iraq. We also met representatives of civil society in Iraq, including women's movements. It underlined the importance of their work. Iraq is, in fact, the only country in this region that has adopted an ambitious action plan to implement Resolution 1325, which is, of course, about women, peace and security. This is of course welcome, but the implementation is inadequate. There is much more to be done, and the work lacks both resources and political priority. That was something we discussed with the representatives of women's organisations. The issue has also been important in development cooperation with Iraq. For example, Sweden has contributed SEK 28 million to Kvinna till woman during the years 2011– 2014. We know that that organisation is doing an important job there, so to speak, in the field. We talked about the fact that for al-Abadi it is about pursuing a non-sectarian and inclusive policy in the future. Even with all the challenges and difficulties it can bring, it is the way forward. It is also a political solution for Iraq, which is the most important thing. It appeared that in all our talks they made requests for assistance, support and help and good advice, so there is so much to do. They also expressed their appreciation that we have been a partner to Iraq in this work, which for them has been absolutely crucial. So we're going to continue. We must also look at the future, how best we can help rebuild Iraq. In addition, we have our military force in Erbil that fights Daesh and does it in a very professional and even there welcome way. They work as an advisor, so to speak. We understood and learned that it is about everything from medical advice to advice on clearing mines. It is part of their daily tasks. They are doing this in an excellent way and are still needed in the future. That is why we are presenting a proposal to extend the operation in Iraq. Thank you for your additional comments. We will hopefully continue to have broad support for helping the people of Iraq and, not least, ensuring that women and minorities are best protected.
i-8eafe31059d48331-56	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Wallström. It is perfectly understandable that people are going out on the streets all over Iraq to claim their rights. The reforms promised are moving in the right direction, but unfortunately, as we have discussed, implementation is too slow. The economic situation has severely affected many Iraqis. The security situation, which we have also talked about a great deal, is still very serious. The great popular protests are fundamentally positive in that they bring together a wide range of young people, women and men from different ethnic and religious groups. This unity is a good sign that can pave the way for greater consensus and reconciliation between the various groupings in the country. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs is talking about, this is the way forward. It is worrying, however, that we are receiving reports of demonstrators being attacked, imprisoned and beaten without those responsible being prosecuted. The Government of Baghdad must listen to the protesters' demands for greater democracy, real reforms and a fairer financial distribution of its resources. It is important, I believe, for the outside world to pay even more attention than hitherto to the situation in Iraq, to support the peaceful, popular demonstrators in their struggle for change and reform and to guarantee their freedom of assembly and security. I believe that Sweden can play an even more important role in this work, although I am also pleased and welcome the commitment and support that Sweden already gives to Iraq, both in terms of aid and in other ways.
i-8eafe31059d48331-62	Madam President, I would like If we are going to try to sum up what we from Sweden contribute and continue to contribute, it is about maintaining and developing our political relations with Iraq and KRG and that we continue to have a long-term commitment. It was clear that they want to deepen and broaden these relations considerably. We shall continue with Swedish aid, humanitarian aid and military promotion so that Iraq can stabilise and consolidate its democracy. I fully agree that it is extremely important not to intervene, for example, against peaceful demonstrators, but to allow different expressions of opinion and to pursue a non-sectarian policy. We shall continue to assert the importance of political dialogue, reconciliation, respect for human rights and the rule of law. We intend to continue to support UN efforts – including UNami, i.e. the UN mission in Iraq – and to continue to urge Al-Abadi to pursue such an inclusive policy towards various ethnic and religious minorities that exist in Iraq. That's the way forward.
i-8eafe31059d48331-65	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! Christian Holm Barenfeld has asked me what positions the Swedish Government has taken on EU sanctions against Belarus, whether they should remain firm, whether they can be rapidly extended in the event of continued repression and abuse of democratic principles, whether current changes include all restrictions or involve minor adjustments, and whether the government will continue to be strong and strong in terms of sanctions until real democratic reforms are adopted and implemented in Belarus. I would like to begin by thanking Christian Barenfeld for this opportunity to present the government's assessment of developments in Belarus and its position on EU policy. I would also like to remind you of the answer I gave on 20 October to a written question on the same subject. EU sanctions against Belarus were introduced in 2004 in response to the so-called disappearances of a number of people and have since been reinforced on several occasions in response to the reprisals by the authorities against opponents. As a result of the 2008 release of all political prisoners, the EU temporarily suspended sanctions. However, following the 2010 presidential election, the sanctions were reintroduced and reinforced, once the authorities again intervened with violence against peaceful demonstrators and detained a large number of opponents. Decisions on further tightening of sanctions were taken in 2011 and 2012, and in this context the EU made it clear to Belarus that relief of sanctions is only possible once all political prisoners have been released. On 22 August this year, Belarus released remaining political prisoners. If we want to maintain the credibility of our sanctions policy, we must also be able to respond with sanction relief when steps are taken in the right direction. Therefore, at the end of October, the EU decided to extend the sanctions against Belarus by four months while suspending them for most of the people listed. However, the decision does not apply to the four people associated with the unresolved political disappearances around the turn of the millennium. There is no reason to be naive about the human rights and democracy situation in Belarus. The positive steps taken during the summer, in line with the EU's demands, are not due to the fact that the regime has re-evaluated its view of democracy and human rights. Rather, the motivation of the regime is that it has recognised the need for closer relations with the EU in order to balance its unilateral dependence on Russia. Should developments in the area of human rights go backwards, the government is prepared to take action, including in the area of sanctions. In the negotiations within the EU, Sweden has stressed the importance of the EU's being clear about our continued expectations of Belarus in terms of respect for human rights and the principles of democracy. It is only once Belarus has implemented these reforms that it will be able to benefit from the benefits that a developed relationship with the EU would bring. The government is following the situation in Belarus very closely, and in October I had the opportunity to meet the Belarusian opposition politician Mikola Statkevitj during his visit to Sweden after his release from Belarusian prison a few weeks earlier. It is, among other things, such contacts that form the basis for the government's balanced picture of developments in Belarus. Madam President, I would like The EU should pursue a policy towards Belarus that contributes to democratic development while strengthening its continued independence and independence. It includes sanctions as one of several instruments. Another is cooperation within the Eastern Partnership, which has meant increased opportunities for contacts with civil society as well as decision-makers and experts in a number of areas. This broad approach is also reflected in Sweden's bilateral development cooperation, ranging from support to human rights defenders, independent journalists and students to efforts to support market economy reforms and enhanced environmental protection in Belarus. We should regularly test how, together, with dialogue and in other ways, we can promote positive developments in Belarus and for the Belarusian people. Belarus' interest in closer relations with the EU can be used to move it also towards the EU's core values. We do this by clarifying our expectations for further democratic steps, while broadening our contact areas with the population of the country. Sweden will remain a driving force in this work.
i-8eafe31059d48331-75	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the answer to my interpellation and also for the answer to the previous question. It highlights a number of areas and provides some answers to the question as a whole, but not surprisingly, I do not really agree with the conclusions. Basically, I have a slightly different opinion. On 11 October, the fourth undemocratic presidential election was held in a row in Belarus, or Belarus as it might be more correctly referred to. It was a choice that was once again surrounded by widespread electoral fraud. In Lukasjenko no democratic elections were held in any area of the country. The country is characterised, not only by electoral movements, by widespread repression, restrictions on the freedom of the people, persecution, abuse and imprisonment of oppositionists and journalists. The Foreign Minister also mentioned that we should not have any false hopes for development. Media freedom does not exist in the country either, and unfortunately there is no light. The regime has often played the EU against Russia and Russia against the EU in order to gain benefits for itself. Of course, the anchors have been an important source of pressure on the part of the EU. The United States has also had sanctions against the country. In elections, the regime usually releases political prisoners. It took place prior to the 2008 elections and there was a small loosening. At that time, Belarus had no formal political prisoners, with the exception of the poor people who disappeared and about whom we have heard nothing since. But after the 2010 elections, it became increasingly violent, and then the sanctions that we have today were imposed. They have fluctuated back and forth a little bit, gone a little up and down in terms of the number of people listed. It is a question of an EU entry ban for a number of individuals, and some entrepreneurs have had their assets frozen in the EU and are not allowed to enter. I myself have been present in Belarus during the last four elections, 2008, 2010, 2012 and 2015, that is, just a few months ago. Unfortunately, we can see that nothing has happened in a positive sense, except that the political prisoners are usually released in connection with elections. It is quite wrong for the EU to lift sanctions just after an election with extremely extensive electoral fraud, and when oppositionists are still being oppressed. This is done with the support of the Swedish Government. This is to thank the regime, a regime which continues to oppress its opponents and has once again robbed the people of its right to elect its political leaders. The fact that informal discussions took place in the EU the day after the elections seems particularly distasteful given that the OSSE, which was there monitoring the elections, held a press conference and condemned the elections as undemocratic; we were very clear in our harsh criticism. Should some kind of relaxation of sanctions have been made, it should have happened before the elections and then say that if the regime does not behave, if it does not introduce democracy, we will reintroduce the sanctions. My question to the Foreign Minister concerns the credibility of lifting sanctions. It is true that political prisoners have been released, but repression and persecution have not subsided. Now on Thursday it is again a trial against an opposition leader, Anatoly Lebedko, and we will see where it ends. The Minister for Foreign Affairs sees any other improvements in democracy and human rights in the country, and if so, what?
i-8eafe31059d48331-84	Mr President! The situation in Belarus has been deplorable for many years. At the same time, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs says, if the country takes a step in the right direction, we should show that we are happy about it and lift some of the sanctions. It has happened in the past that the EU has lifted sanctions against Belarus, but when they have started to misbehave again, they have been reinstated. So this is not the first time it has happened, and it may happen again that the EU is tightening up the sanctions. If the deterioration of the situation leads to sanctions, we should, as the Foreign Minister also says, be rewarded in some way if we improve the situation, even if it is far from perfect. The situation in Belarus is still terrible, but it is a step in the right direction. I would like to compare with the situation in Burma. Burma still has enormous problems. R ohingya, the small Muslim minority, is considered by the UN to be the world's most vulnerable and persecuted ethnic group. Aung San Suu Kyi is prevented from leading the country because she married a non-burmes and has children who are only half Burmese. Nevertheless, it has to be said that the development has been very positive if we compare it with what it looked like in the past. In the elections held the other day, the opposition party won a landslide victory. Now Belarus is very far from Burma – Burma has actually made more progress despite the remaining problems. Nevertheless, I think that, just as sanctions have been imposed in Burma, sanctions should be imposed on Belarus when they take a step forward. It is a false picture if you think that all sanctions are released, because that is not the case. One of the most important sanctions is the arms trade. Arms are not traded between EU countries and Belarus. It is a very clear and significant mark. This is, above all, about individuals against whom sanctions are imposed. The sanctions have not been lifted from all persons, but they still have sanctions against four suspects of unexplained disappearances. Of course, we have to follow developments very closely, but I still think there is a point in letting decisions in Belarus have a decision over whether to drop sanctions or whether to tighten sanctions. Then it becomes logical, so that it is not only a punishment when the situation deteriorates but also a reward when it improves. But at the same time: If things get worse again, there will be new sanctions. Of course, this will not solve all the problems, but I think that the example from Burma shows that an improved situation does not always have to be temporary, but it can actually be a step in the right direction. Unfortunately, the motivation for this in Belarus is exactly what the Foreign Minister says: it is about not wanting to become so dependent on Russia and therefore approaching the European Union. But regardless of the motives, the people of Belarus are benefiting from all the steps taken in the right direction. We must contribute in every way we can to allow more people to live in freedom and democracy with human rights also in Belarus.
i-8eafe31059d48331-94	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Christian and Hillevi. Thank you, Christian, for what you've done and that you've been there! I don't know if you've been a member of the observation team. But all attendance and commitment are incredibly important, and we will show all appreciation for that. Unfortunately, my assessment of the situation does not differ significantly from what you describe. There has been little improvement in the human rights situation in the country, and we cannot say that the regime has fundamentally changed its position. But perhaps it has been a little clearer than in the past to achieve a closer relationship with the EU. It may still be said to be a good sign, and we should use that to influence developments in the right direction. It can then be said that what has happened to sanctions is proof of both the strength and the weakness of sanctions. They must be part of a strategy that is larger and which is a plan for how to get involved in a country. It cannot consist only of sanctions. At best, they bring about the release of prisoners, but sanctions can be reintroduced as quickly as possible because unfortunately the same mistakes are repeated. For Statkevitj it was of course very important that they existed. He got free because that pressure was there. But it clearly has great limitations. We have worked in the EU to use the sanctions instrument in a slightly more results-oriented way. It is therefore a question of focusing sanctions on specific measures and expectations of the country in question, so as to make it clearer. What do we want to achieve? What are you going to answer for us to lift the sanctions? I can only agree with your descriptions of it. When we have imposed sanctions on Belarus, it is precisely the release of political prisoners that has been the clearest demand. If they do this, then we must of course respond rationally. Otherwise, we have immediately disposed of that instrument. However, there are other instruments that we can use to improve the conditions for Belarus to move more towards a democracy with strengthened human rights. This is about development cooperation. It is a question of aid efforts. It is about environmental protection in Belarus. It is about the kind of very concrete commitment that is long-term for the people of Belarus. It is also a question of showing that it pays to move closer to the EU and to EU cooperation. That's how we think about what we need to do. There must be a sustained policy of sanctions against Belarus. If they want to improve their relationship with the EU, they will hopefully realise that this will not be possible if they continue to act in a way that will again be subject to stricter sanctions. But, as I said, this has its limits, and it should be as results-oriented as it is at all possible.
i-8eafe31059d48331-101	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the opportunity for this discussion! That is an important issue. In essence, I do not believe that there are any major differences between me and the Foreign Minister in terms of the fact that there are major problems in Belarus. On these issues, we generally have a rather broad consensus, at least between the Alliance and the Social Democrats. Then there may be a difference in the details, if you may call them that. The details are, in my view, relatively important in terms of sanctions. When the sanctions were imposed, the political prisoners were a bit. As far as the instrument of sanctions is concerned, there have been political prisoners. There have been changes in the electoral law. And you've had a little freer media. Of course we really want free media. At least we want to see progress. We can take up Hillevi Larsson's comments. Of course Burma has a lot of challenges, but there is a difference between Belarus and Burma. Burma, despite the major problems it has been facing, has, for quite a long time, taken steps in the right direction – more or less so all the time – while Belarus plays out the EU against Russia and vice versa. I am quite sure that Lukasjenko is not particularly interested in approaching the EU itself. I guess he's interested in making sure he can stay in the position of president. The EU is not normally present and is deposed. Russia works in a different way. The EU is thus in a way easier to deal with. On the other hand, we are more difficult precisely because we are making demands on democracy and human rights. Nevertheless, these were very targeted sanctions. I might have had a different view if sanctions had been imposed on the whole of Belarus, because it often affects the population. I think these sanctions right now concern about 140 people-- it was up to 270. They're bad guys. It is the President and his closest fellow runners and a number of oligarchs who have also had their assets frozen because they are involved in financing the repression. Then Sweden has other commitments in the country. We have aid strategies with regard to aid for democracy and human rights. We also have a number of commitments at lower official level regarding environmental improvement measures and so on. I think that's good to have. But now it's about withdrawing these. I think it is a bit unfortunate that we have not had the opportunity to discuss it in Parliament before the decision. What took place was basically a written consultation, with a few hours' margin of response, last Wednesday. Nevertheless, we have known that the discussion has been going on for quite a long time. So it was in a fairly large and important issue a rather routinely handling, I think. If we had had a discussion about it, I am not at all sure that the same position would have been adopted. In the future, I hope that we will have the opportunity to discuss the issues more seriously in the European Parliament's European Council, because it is important that we have Members of the Swedish Parliament behind it and that we have a good process, because that is what we are actually asking of Belarus and all other countries. You should have good parliamentary support. You should have good discussions and opportunities to air your opinions. At this point, I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs one more question, on the basis that these sanctions are now being lifted. Once again, one has had a choice where one cheated. Not only did Lukasjenko cheat again, but he went from 79 to 83.49 percent. He's a popular guy, according to himself. But we know that it is he himself who directs the outcome. Is there any thought from the Swedish Government to reintroduce any kind of sanctions – direct, economic or travel – with regard to Belarus?
i-8eafe31059d48331-111	Madam President, I would like In fact, we agree on the situation in Belarus and that a great deal remains to be done. As long as Lukasjenko is in power, the hope for improvement is not so great. The reason I mentioned the example of Burma was that when you have sanctions you have to show in some way that you are prepared to reward behaviour and not just punish behaviour. When Burma began to move in the right direction, no one knew that it would continue along that path. It might as well have been as in Belarus that it is a bit back and forth – a step forward and a step back. But you never know when that step forward that will be lasting will come and perhaps lead to another step forward. Therefore, I think that sanctions policy should also be used to reward behaviour. As I have said, the EU has in the past removed sanctions and then tightened sanctions when it has become worse. The EU can do that again. So these reliefs are in no way definitive. That does not mean that the regime is getting away with it. Nevertheless, it is positive for the prisoners who have been freed. It is still real to the people that it is about. If the facilitation of sanctions can in any way help to encourage the release of prisoners, I still think that there is a value in this. It is not Sweden alone that decides on these sanctions, but it is decided at EU level. But Sweden can have the point that it must follow developments very closely and be prepared to tighten sanctions when you see negative signs in order to somehow try to steer development, even if it is very difficult, and continue with humanitarian aid. But I have full confidence in the government on these issues.
i-8eafe31059d48331-116	Madam President, I would like I thank Hillevi Larsson and Christian Holm Barenfeld. The question was whether we are prepared to reintroduce sanctions. Yes, of course we are if the EU community decides to do so and if the EU Member States agree. That, of course, is what can have an effect. Then we would be ready to discuss it, and we must always be. There is nothing to prevent the EU from imposing new sanctions if necessary and if we consider it important. But sanctions have no intrinsic value. What is important is that we can move Belarus in the right direction. The important thing is not how many people you have on the sanctions list. However, we have endeavoured to ensure that sanctions are as action-oriented as possible. In this case, of course, they were very clearly linked to the political prisoners. That is why there was a great deal of consensus. We would've been alone if we'd gone against it. I agree that it is important to anchor what we are doing in the EU Council and here in Parliament, and to sometimes, of course, discuss the whole policy of sanctions and also the policy towards a country like Belarus and have the opportunity to have that debate. I very much agree with that. What was discussed in the EU circle was the timing and how, so to speak, sanctions should be lifted. Should sanctions be lifted against everyone on the list, or should some sort of restriction be made? So the debate went. But it was very clear that the direction was to respond to the fact that they had released the political prisoners by suspending this. The timing was also discussed, and there was a very large consensus among the Member States. We shall now proceed, as has been mentioned here, with a regular dialogue with representatives of, for example, the Belarusian opposition. It is important to continue our efforts that are more long-term, including development cooperation, environmental protection and aid efforts in Belarus, in order to hopefully push forward in the right direction, not least for the Belarusian people.
i-8eafe31059d48331-120	Madam President, I would like The prisoners are now released. There's a deal. But a number of them do not live in the country for fear of reincarnation. Statkevitj, whom I met in October, is one of those who will not be allowed to run for president because he is classified by the regime as a criminal. When you've been a political prisoner, you're classified as a criminal. There are far too many of the leading, potential and potential challengers who are not allowed to stand as candidates. It's a good way to get rid of your political resistance if you imprison these people and watch the day call them gangsters that they can't be in the game again. Those who leave the country are an even greater loss because they can also not be in place and opinion-forming. You can discuss what the EU wants. But Sweden is part of the EU. The Swedish government, during the time of the Alliance, was very driving. It was Sweden and Poland that started cooperation within the Eastern Partnership. When the previous sanctions were introduced, Sweden was one of the strongest driving countries to get the targeted sanctions. So it matters what Sweden does. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: Will Sweden continue to push the issues of the Eastern Partnership and developments there and around Belarus with the same intensity and focus on ensuring, together with others, that Lukasjenko is put under severe pressure? We see what he's doing, but we don't accept it. And he should not feel welcome to the EU countries if he does anything else.
i-8eafe31059d48331-123	Madam President, I would like I think that was a good closing question. You can be absolutely sure, Christian Holm Barenfeld, that we are already perceived as those who are most committed to the Eastern Partnership and that we continue to work on these issues. We will continue to keep them high on our political agenda. Of course, when these discussions come up, we are also expected to take a clear position. It is very important that we do not forget what is going on there and that we do not think that we can settle down because it has been a choice. On the contrary, this must be a long-term commitment and commitment demonstrated over and over again. I can assure you that we are continuing with the commitment of the previous government to the Eastern Partnership and relations with Belarus. Of course, we do it best on the platform of the European Union. Let us just hope that the EU shows that it can be strong and united in crisis situations such as the one we have today, so that we can, hopefully, continue to press for democracy and human rights in Belarus. Thank you for the debate.
i-8eafe31059d48331-126	Madam President, I would like Mikael Eskilandersson has asked Minister Åsa Regnér if she will shortly act to introduce mediation in connection with custody disputes. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. It is important that there are good conditions for parents to be able to agree on matters of custody, housing and association. For in most cases it is best for the child. Therefore, care legislation has been designed in various ways to enable parents to reach agreement on matters relating to the child. Among other things, parents can be helped to reach a consensus solution within the framework of municipal cooperation talks. There is also an opportunity for the court to allow a mediator to try to get the parents to agree. Work is under way to review and strengthen parents' chances of reaching consensus on custody disputes in various ways. The National Board of Health and Welfare is tasked with evaluating the cooperation discussions and making proposals for possible measures. In addition, the General Children's House has been granted funds to test a trial with so-called collaborative teams to support parents and children in the process of separation. In addition, the 2014 custody investigation is working on issues related to mediation and other consensus solutions. The investigation will consider how the mediation procedure can be developed and improved, if there are other ways to further strengthen parents' ability to reach consensus solutions before and during court proceedings and whether an obligation for parents to participate in cooperation talks or mediation should be imposed before a court proceedings are initiated. The investigation will report on its mission in October 2016. There is therefore work going on in various areas to strengthen parents' chances of reaching consensus in custody disputes. When the results of this work are presented, the government will take a position on how we should proceed.
i-8eafe31059d48331-131	Madam President, I would like I thank Morgan Johansson for the answer, although I may think it was somewhat evasive. While Morgan Johansson is now copying a lot of our other proposals, I think it might be appropriate to look at perhaps also the proposals of the Swedish Democrats regarding mediation. We have proposed that Sweden should copy the Norwegian model, where you have automatic mediation. I have looked at the previous policy of the Social Democrats, including a committee motion from the Parliamentary Session 2013/14. It is the past year – the year before they took over power. In the exercise, you write: So it was because of custody disputes. I think that somewhere has now gone from this. It is believed that we should first wait and see what an investigation concludes. Then I am beginning to wonder whether the Social Democrats have left the policy they stood for while they were in opposition. You don't give at all the same picture of action now that you're in government as you did before. The same motion also points out how badly mediation works today, and that only 1.7 percent of cases are convicted in court where mediation is condemned. So the courts have the opportunity to judge for mediation, and it is only in 1.7 percent of cases that they do – which is said to be too low. I believe that the Social Democrats have a view on this which is fundamentally similar to that of the Swedish Democrats, namely that mediation should be the goal and the first thing that happens in connection with a custody dispute. Custody disputes should preferably not end up in court as easily as they do today. This is basically about building strong children, so to speak. Children who lose the right to both their parents can in their own way get hurt by it, I think, and many parents get hurt by not having the opportunity to see their children. There are fundamental problems with the way in which custody disputes are viewed today, such as the fact that if both parents oppose joint custody, the court cannot grant joint custody. Then the court must instead choose one of the parents. The question is whether it is really in the best interests of the child or whether it is in the best interests of the parents. There are a lot of basic facts. For example, children between the ages of four and twelve are those who may feel the worst of disputes, according to the surveys that exist. It is also the case that disputes have increased in recent years. Over the past ten years, court custody disputes have doubled, while divorces have only marginally increased in comparison. So it is not an increase in divorces that has caused custody disputes to increase, but it must be something else. Then you can begin to wonder if it is not time to try something new – like that Norway, what I have understood, had some success with. There it is forced to mediate before the case goes to court.
i-8eafe31059d48331-140	Madam President, I would like It is a little strange that Mikael Eskilandersson seems so poorly informed about the investigation we are talking about in this interpellation debate, as well as the background to it. It's strange because he himself is in the reference group to this particular investigation. He knows very well how the investigation came about. He reads aloud from the Social Democratic motion of 2013, which is actually part of the background to the fact that the investigation now exists, but he forgets to read the proposal for the mission itself to the government. According to this Social Democratic motion, the mission to the government would be as follows:- Against this background, the government should be given the task of following up the new legislation and evaluating how the law on risk assessments has been brought to an end and assessing whether mothers and fathers are treated equally by the court. The starting point for the whole revision of the new legislation should be the best interests of the child. The government should then make suggestions on how to deal with so many cases going to court. ..................................................... In the exercise there is therefore no lock on what Mikael Eskilandersson would like to read, namely that there should be mandatory mediation. The mission the motion wanted to give the government was to evaluate this, follow up and see what can be done with it. That is also exactly what the then government took the initiative, including after the treatment of that motion. This is the investigation that is now in place and which Mikael Eskilandersson himself is involved in. For me as Minister of State, it is important to say that I do not want to anticipate the outcome of that investigation. Instead, it should be free not only to follow-up but also to look at ways to improve the situation. There may be different ways to go. Pending receipt of the report in October 2016, we have also taken other initiatives. This applies, among other things, to the development of municipal cooperation agreements – where the National Board of Health and Welfare will conduct a special evaluation – and the project with General Barnhuset and collaboration teams in these situations. In that situation, then, we are. Our focus is to try to better find solutions in these situations, but I do not want and cannot anticipate the investigation of which Mikael Eskilandersson is, as I have said, part of.
i-8eafe31059d48331-145	Madam President, I would like It is perfectly true that I am in the investigation referred to by Morgan Johansson. However, I do not want to say that this investigation is very free, because it is unfortunately quite tied up. Among other things, it is tied to shared custody, which we will come to in the next interpellation debate. The investigation is therefore not in a position to look freely at the area, which I find a little sad. However, it is still the case that in the motion it was written that the first instance should involve mediation. This is not what the custody investigation has been given, although it should look at different forms of mediation. At the same time, it is pushing this a few years forward in time, and I wonder whether it is really the best thing for children to push things forward for as long as possible. I think that we could have shown more action and introduced mediation much earlier than that.
i-8eafe31059d48331-147	Madam President, I would like One can well understand that from the honourable Member's point of view, in other words that he wants it that way. In his interpellation, however, he suggests that we should have changed some policy. What I'm saying is that the exercise we wrote a few years ago is about evaluating and monitoring this to see what solutions can be found. The investigation into the issue we are now discussing, namely mediation in custody disputes, is in no way tied up. On the contrary, one looks at the question of obligatory or some kind of obligation. Then I think that the investigation must weigh up for and against this situation. When you have left your report and it has been a consultation round, the government will take a position on the proposals that come from there, just as we do in all other legislative matters. But do not try to say that we are in any way in favour of a different policy now than we were in opposition! On the contrary, what we are now doing is following up exactly the exercise we presented in 2013.
i-8eafe31059d48331-150	Madam President, I would like What I am saying is rather that the government is very unclear as to what it stands for at present. In general, it refers only to the custody inquiry. You don't really have a clear line. You wait for what the custody investigation will come up with. I hope that the custody inquiry will conclude that the Norwegian model is something for Sweden to imitate. It has worked well in Norway, and I cannot see why it could not work in Sweden as well. According to the Norwegian model, everyone is called a separation into mediation, and there is an agreement on how children should be cared for in the future. I think it's pretty good that someone from outside interferes with parents' custody pretty much immediately when they agree to split up. For there are often strong emotions in motion when people split up, and then, unfortunately, the children become light bats in the parents' separation. To avoid that, it is good if someone comes in from outside and makes it clear how to deal with the children. Then you agree on something, and then you can go home and fight for the car, the dwelling, where to live and so on. At least the children are agreed upon, and they have been agreed upon before another person. I hope it will be something you come up with, but if it really is, I do not know.
i-8eafe31059d48331-153	Madam President, I would like It sounds at Mikael Eskilandersson that there is no support at all in these situations, but that is not the case. We have the municipal cooperation talks. One way is to try to further develop them. There is an opportunity for the court to try to get the parents to get along. There is also the General Barnhuset project in terms of collaboration teams. Then the question is how to proceed with the mediation procedure. It's about me and Mikael Eskilandersson ate that he's locked himself up for a model, namely the Norwegian model, and he wants it through at all costs. As Minister of State, I have set up an investigation to review the suitability of that model. It is only after such a process is completed that the government can take a position in that part. This is how it works when we make law in Sweden and when we give an investigation commission in this way. I would like to say that the investigation has been given quite free rein to see what different models could be used. The common interest is, of course, to try to make things easier for both children and parents who are in a situation like this, which is one of life's more difficult situations to face.
i-8eafe31059d48331-156	Madam President, I would like Mikael Eskilandersson has asked me why the government is opposed to introducing joint custody as the norm and whether I intend otherwise to safeguard a small child's right to both of his parents. In all decisions concerning children, there should be a clear children's perspective. The fact that the best interests of the child are to be decisive for decisions on custody is explicitly stated in the legislation. When a court assesses what is best for the child, the need for close and good contact with both parents shall be taken into account in particular. The legislation thus stresses that both parents have an impact on the well-being and development of the child. In the past, there was a system that was in practice a presumption of joint custody. This presumption was later called into question. Therefore, in 2006, a provision was introduced to ensure that the court should pay particular attention to the ability of the parents to cooperate in matters relating to the child when assessing whether custody is to be shared. It has been argued that this risks leading to an increased level of conflict between parents. Joint custody is, in most cases, a very good form of custody from the child's point of view. For the child's sake, it is important that both parents are involved in the child's circumstances and take responsibility for the child, as the Convention on the Rights of the Child also expresses. The goal should be for parents to have joint custody in all cases where this is best for the child. At the same time, if a parent opposes joint custody, it is important that a review is always made for the reasons given by the parent. Work is currently under way to review the rules on custody, housing and social relations. The 2014 custody inquiry is tasked with identifying and analysing how the rules on joint custody are applied and deciding whether the rules need to be amended or other measures should be taken to strengthen the child rights perspective. The investigation will report on its mission in October 2016. As stated in the investigation's directive, there should not be a return to the previous regime which provided a presumption of joint custody. As the Riksdag has said only last spring, it is also not appropriate to review the issue of joint custody of unmarried parents from the birth of the child. The government's current focus is on improving the existing rules on custody, housing and social relations. I look forward to taking note of the custody inquiry report and will then consider how we should proceed.
i-8eafe31059d48331-161	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Morgan Johansson, for your answer. Why did they actually go in and steer the investigation so that the investigation may not even look into whether it would be good to have a presumption of joint custody. I might wonder if there is not a little too much party politics in it and a little think about the children themselves. When I listen to Morgan Johansson's answer, I can question such things as the fact that if a parent opposes joint custody, one can still be sentenced to joint custody. However, if both parents do so, joint custody cannot be imposed. There is also, of course, one thing that the custody inquiry should look at. But there is still one thing that is very strange, for why can you force one parent to do something that it does not really want when you cannot force both parents? I believe that the wording that both parents should not be forced to do so can increase custody disputes, that the parent who considers himself to have the greatest opportunity to have custody of his own definitely opposes joint custody on the grounds that he believes that he has a better chance of having his own custody of the children. Children are, as it were, a fresh product. Children grow up and grow older. This means that when you postpone things with an investigation, some children will never benefit from the investigation, because they are getting older and simply will no longer be children once the investigation is completed. Unfortunately, when politics is supposed to do something, it is often the case that one should first investigate, then present proposals, then it should be discussed, sent for a referral and so on. You talk for years to come. There are pros and cons, because at the same time, hopefully, our children are not guinea pigs. You shouldn't test something that you don't think works or at least that you don't have proof that it works. It is often called that one should look after the best for the child, but actually one looks to the best for the parents. At the same time, I know that the Social Democrats often point out that the child should have, if possible, much to say about his or her own custody. The question is whether to really put it on a five- or six-year-old to choose parent, mother or father, and that somewhere should be judged which parent is the best. I think it will be horrifying and that it would be better to have a presumption of shared custody as long as none of the parents appear directly unfit as a parent. If someone is unfit as a parent- criminal, exhibits overly aggressive behaviour or the like – I can understand that you have to walk away from this. But as long as a parent has not made himself impossible as a parent, it should still have an opportunity to act as a parent. We cannot always take examples from the time you were a parent. The fact that you as a parent may have spent very little time with the children does not mean that you do so even after the divorce or the custody dispute. In fact, it may be that the parent sharpens up and spends more time with his children after a custody dispute. I therefore find it a little unfortunate that the Social Democrats are absolutely opposed to a presumption of shared custody.
i-8eafe31059d48331-169	Madam President, I would like Children are neither fresh products nor guinea pigs, but children are individuals with their own rights. The view of legislation and governments must be that when solving these situations, the focus must be not so much on the interests of parents but of children. As I interpret the entry of the Swedish Democrats, we differ on this point. The Swedish democrats are not just based on the parents in general but rather on the man's best interests in this situation, because it is always what it is about when we discuss this. For example, you have a reasoning in the interpellation that statistically men are disadvantaged in these situations. It may be that the reality is that men expose women far more often to violence and abuse, for example, than the other way around. And it may be that in a number of cases that is the background to some of the disputes we are talking about. At least in part, it may explain that men are given less custody in such disputes. You have to be clear about that reality. One of the proposals raised by Mikael Eskilandersson in the interpellation is joint custody of children from birth, also for unmarried people. It would work in most cases; I think so too. However, there are situations where it actually becomes unreasonable, for example when the child has been conceived in connection with a sexual assault or if the woman has left the husband during pregnancy because she has been subjected to violence. Then surely it is not reasonable that they should have joint custody, or do the Swedish Democrats think so? That is part of the argument for why it is not taken as a starting point in these situations. The best interests of the child should always be at the center. This also applies to the second proposal raised by Mikael Eskilandersson, where he wants to go back to the order before 2006. The experience of that legislation was that if one tried to force joint custody at all costs, even though the parents could not cooperate at all, it ultimately went out on the child. Living in a highly conflicted environment is stressful for everyone, especially for a young child. Therefore, a return to this regime is out of the question, and that is why it is also stated in the Investigation Directive. We are, of course, reviewing other possibilities for improving this situation in the framework of the 2014 custody investigation. But again: It is the child's best interests that are at the heart, not the father's best – or the mother's best for that matter either.
i-8eafe31059d48331-177	Madam President, I would like Morgan Johansson paints men as potential perpetrators of violence. It's a picture I don't share, but of course there are men, and even women, who commit acts of violence. Of course, men who have sexually abused women should not have shared custody of the children created by sexual abuse. It goes without saying that one then has exhausted one's right to be a parent. The same applies if there is violence in the relationship. But in a relationship where there is no violence and the woman chooses to leave the man before the baby is born, the woman can for all her life deny the child the right to her father just because she wants to. It's an unequal way of looking at parenthood, I think. We should be more equal than that. It becomes directly disgusting when you consider examples of sexual abuse. Then you've gone a little beyond the limit of what's reasonable. Of course, I agree that children are individuals. But children's interests can be hard to see. How do you know what a six-year-old is interested in? Is it Morgan Johansson's opinion that a six-year-old should choose between his mother and father? What if the child at 18 says, "You took my father away from me all the time I was growing up?" So let's answer, blame yourself. You chose Mom over Dad. It is also a wrong way to treat children. It is almost child abuse to force children to choose that way. I'm still wondering why the investigation is being tied up. The fact that you shouldn't bring it because of this sexual abuse thing is, frankly, nonsense. You tie up the investigation and don't even let it look at whether it could be good to have shared custody as the norm. You don't even let the investigation investigate what the conditions are. Here our opinions are divided. The investigation should be free and unhindered to look at all possibilities.
i-8eafe31059d48331-185	Madam President, I would like There are two questions that the interpellier has put to me and that we are discussing. One is about joint custody from the child's birth. Here I point to a couple of unreasonable cases that one can face when the starting point should not be joint custody. In the vast majority of cases it is straightforward, but as legislators we must also look at the cases that are outside the scope. That is why I mentioned these two examples. The second issue concerns joint custody as the norm. Mikael Eskilandersson should be happy with the developments in Sweden in recent decades. In reality, joint custody is now the norm in a completely different way from what it used to be. In 1983, well over 30 years ago, only 37 percent of the cases involved joint custody after separation. In more than half of the cases, the mother received individual custody. In 2008, there was joint custody after a separation in 95% of cases. This is more than a doubling of the proportion of cases leading to joint custody and a major change. It was much more common in the past for fathers to disappear from their children's lives after separation than it is today. Fathers now generally share in their children's lives in a completely different way from what they did a few decades ago, and that happens in a more normal way. I think there are two reasons for this. One is that separations have been dedramatized. Of course, this is a difficult situation, but there are structures to cope with it. It's also more common. The second is about a change in gender equality. We can handle these situations in a different way. In reality, the most common, the absolutely dominant, joint custody is. But what happens in cases that are a little out of the ordinary, in cases where parents absolutely cannot cooperate? Then the experience of the legislation we had up to 2006 shows that sooner or later it goes out on children. Therefore, the courts should also consider the possibility for parents to cooperate when taking a stand on custody disputes. Again: It is the child's best, that is, the child's right to a good upbringing and opportunities for peace and quiet and development, which should be at the centre. That line we will continue to hold. That is why a return to the old situation is out of the question for us.
i-8eafe31059d48331-193	Madam President, I would like I welcome the increase in joint custody. I think that is largely because fathers generally want to take more responsibility than they have done in the past. However, the number of disputes is also increasing, and it may be partly explained by the fact that fathers want to take more responsibility but are not allowed to take responsibility. The 1999 inquiry into joint custody of unmarried parents is fundamentally in favour of joint custody. This investigation is now being used as a reason for nte to be joint custody of unmarried people, and it is considered that one does not need to investigate it again. This study refers to the fact that there is no registered father for unmarried parents when the child is born. However, after a majority in the Committee on Civil Liberties last year agreed that paternity should be registered before birth – something that the Social Democrats too eventually got along with because otherwise they had been run over by the committee – there is no longer the problem raised by the investigator in 1999. Since one can register paternity before the child's birth, one should also be able to obtain shared custody from birth. The old reason therefore falls. Nevertheless, it does not want to repeat the 1999 investigation and review the possibilities for shared custody as the norm. I think it's wrong.
i-8eafe31059d48331-198	Madam President, I would like Joint custody is by far the most prevalent and occurs in 95% of cases after separation. As I said, there has been a sharp increase over the last 30 years. Mikael Eskilandersson says that even in situations where parents cannot cooperate, joint custody should be sought. That was the case until 2006, and it went out on the children. Therefore, the reasonable order must be for the court to tear the dispute over who should have custody. We cannot have a situation in which thousands of children grow up in highly conflicted forms. I think it is extremely damaging for children in the longer term. The Court has to take responsibility and say: This is the situation, which is why we have to judge by the best interests of the children. I look forward to the custody inquiry and the proposals it may put forward to prevent, for example, long-term and deep conflicts. This is the direction that is the way forward – that there are fewer cases where you end up in total lockdown. I think it would be very unfortunate to go back to the 2006 order.
i-8eafe31059d48331-204	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me if I am prepared to work to demand that the food exported to Sweden should live up to Swedish laws, especially those relating to the environment and animal welfare. Swedish livestock production is characterised in international comparison by a high level of animal welfare and a very good animal health, which gives high-quality food that consumers can trust. One of the government's priorities is to create the conditions for growing food production, especially in primary production. Here I would like to point out our work in providing support to municipalities and county councils when it comes to setting relevant requirements for public procurement. The industry has also taken important initiatives, such as voluntary labelling of origin. However, I must be clear that Sweden is not in a position to unilaterally stop the introduction of food that meets the requirements that apply within the EU on the grounds that they generally do not comply with Swedish laws. We would then be violating the principle that applies within the Union. Nor can we impose such requirements on third countries on imports with less than the fact that they were agreed in a bilateral agreement or an international agreement. Jens Holm mentions Article 36 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and here I would like to make it clear that that article cannot be invoked if the real aim of the measure is to protect the domestic market, although the reason for this is to safeguard the high level of protection of animals and the environment in Sweden. The fact that it would benefit Swedish food production is not a legitimate reason for introducing anti-trade measures. Animal welfare for livestock must be increased, both within the EU and globally. This is important for the protection of animals, but also for equalising competition on the market so that producers in countries with good animal welfare are not disadvantaged. It is particularly important to ensure that the common rules are complied with – cheating must not pay off! The government takes this issue very seriously and works continuously for increased protection of animal-producing animals in the EU. Sweden is also a driving force in the EU-wide work to strengthen animal welfare at an international level, both in multilateral fora such as the OIE and in the negotiation of trade agreements. Sweden is a strong advocate of open and transparent trade. The government's focus should therefore continue to be on improving animal welfare, both within the EU and internationally, while at the same time promoting increased Swedish competitiveness in the direction that the government's food strategy will point out.
i-8eafe31059d48331-212	Madam President, I would like The situation for Swedish food production is strained, to say the least. Since the 1970s, half of Sweden's farmers have disappeared. Today, about one farmer closes down his business a day. We also know that nowadays only half of the food we eat is produced in Sweden. More and more food is being imported. This is a direct consequence of the fact that Sweden has been a member of the European Union since 1995. In the EU's internal market, there must be free competition, and that also applies to food. It is devastating for any progressive food policy if only free competition prevails. It will then be difficult to pursue a policy of higher environmental standards and a higher level of animal protection. I am very concerned that we are approaching what the former Minister of Finance Anders Borg talked about, namely that Swedish agriculture becomes a form of hobby farming where we only produce for niche markets and that Swedish agriculture is not the foundation of our food supply. I am pleased that we now have a rural minister who has announced that we will develop a food strategy and that we will produce more food in Sweden. But it must be sustainable food – food that ensures that our emissions are reduced and that meets the absolute highest levels of how animals are to be treated. The situation today is not okay. Half of all food is imported and comes from countries that have lower environmental standards and treat animals much less. In Sweden we have requirements that mean shorter animal transport than in the rest of the EU. In Sweden we do not fix pigs and keep them strapped to systems, and we do not hijack them. We give dairy cows the right to go outdoors, and we do not routinely feed our animals antibiotics, just to take a few examples. Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht says that it is not possible to make demands on the imported food. I refer to Article 36 of the EU Treaty, which opens the way for Member States to be able to impose requirements for the protection of animal and human health. There are two examples mentioned in the article. Article 36 also states that it must not be open to arbitrariness, and I think that is quite correct. If laws and regulations are to be introduced, all countries and companies should be treated the same. My direct question to the Minister for Rural Development is: Have you in the government even tried to make demands on imported food so that it will be the same conditions for food produced in Sweden and food coming from other countries? As Sweden has acted so far, we have been European champions of law enforcement, and it is very rare for us to fight for our own laws and regulations. I think it is high time to do so, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, if we are to continue to produce food and have higher requirements for the environment and animals.
i-8eafe31059d48331-222	Madam President, I would like This is governed by Article 36 of the Treaty on European Union. There are reasons for the need to protect human and animal health, but it is important that the measures taken are well-founded. It cannot be argued that products should be prevented from coming here because we are supposed to protect Swedish animal welfare or Swedish health. There are other ways of influencing this – within the EU and how to deal with these kinds of issues, but also at international level. For example, occupational safety and health can be affected via the ILO, where we in Sweden are very active. But there are also organisations that we can use to influence the improvement of animal health in other countries. As regards animal health and food safety compliance at EU level, Sweden has for a very long time been a strong pusher, and we will continue to be so, not least in the field of antibiotics. Swedish food production says Jens Holm is strained. Yes, I agree with many parts, not least with regard to milk. It has been affected by the global imbalance between production and demand. But it has also been influenced, as Jens Holm writes in the interpellation, by the fact that the former Finance Minister went out with the signal that he does not believe in Swedish production agriculture. These were extremely negative signals that were sent out from that government. That, of course, has consequences. Moreover, the fact that a lot of measures have been taken to reduce the competitive position of Swedish farmers does not make things any better. But if we look at the current developments, we can see that the issue is very consumer-driven. We need to have a big ear for what consumers think in these contexts and hook arms with the consumer side. We see, among other things, that organic food increased by as much as 38% in 2014, and there are indications that the demand for such products will increase by nearly 50% this year – we will see when we get the exact figures. There is an enormous amount of Swedish added value in Swedish food production. We should be careful of these added values, but we must also use them much more clearly for consumers in our country, but also for consumers outside our borders in the EU and outside the EU. There is today a very strong trend among consumers globally to connect food and health. This is a great opportunity for Swedish agricultural production, which I believe in, unlike the former Minister of Finance.
i-8eafe31059d48331-228	Madam President, I would like It is good that there are higher ambitions of this government. I very much welcome that. But a government should be judged by how to act. In this particular debate we are discussing the possibility of Sweden making demands on food exported to Sweden, and I had a specific question for the Minister for Rural Development: Have you even tried? I'd like to know. Have you even tried to push this issue towards Europe? Have you told the European Commission that we in Sweden have tougher environmental legislation, that we in Sweden are making higher demands on animal welfare? As minimum requirements, we think that food sent to our country should comply with the laws and regulations we have set up, but not because we want to treat other countries or companies that want to trade with Sweden arbitrarily – this is not about. And it is not really a question of giving Swedish producers some kind of premium or competitive advantage, it is a question of putting the environment, animals and public health first. These are, in fact, the issues raised in Article 36 of the Treaty on European Union. It is the article that would enable a Member State to make demands precisely on freedom of movement, precisely on trade within the EU's internal market. I know, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, that it is difficult to pursue these questions. I myself have been in the European Parliament, and I think that the European Union is something of a market-fundamentalist organisation. Free competition, the free movement of goods and services are constantly being put first – that is more important than anything else. But it is therefore important that there are Member States that stand up for animal welfare, stand up for the environment, stand up for public health. That is what I want the Swedish Government to do. That is why I ask again: have you even fought for us to have the right to make demands on the food exported to Sweden? I would like to remind you of just one example when Sweden did so. When we became a member of the European Union, we had a ban on a pesticide called paraquate. We said we wanted to keep that ban, but the European Commission said we had to remove it. At that time we pushed that issue all the way to the European Court of Justice, and we actually won. For reasons of non-compliance, it was noted that it was more important that one Member State could have a ban on a dangerous pesticide than that the pesticide could be sold freely throughout the EU's internal market. And, in fact, today, paraquats are banned throughout the European Union. That, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, is a concrete example of how it sometimes pays to fight. I think that animals, the environment and public health are so important that we should fight to make demands on the food sold to Sweden. There is also something else interesting in the rural minister's reply. It is that the government is pushing questions about animal welfare within the framework of international agreements. I think that's very important. Then I would like to know what agreements this might be about. We have the TTIP trade and investment agreement between the EU and the US, which is at the top of the agenda now. There I and many others are afraid that there will be a downward pressure in the legislation. I would therefore like to know whether Sweden is demanding that countries have the right to legislate on progressive animal welfare laws and environmental laws and that this should never be jeopardised by free trade between the EU and the US. Does the Swedish government run it?
i-8eafe31059d48331-236	Madam President, I would like We will take good care of our animals in Sweden, and I would argue that we in Sweden are world champions of animal welfare. We should also have a high level of food safety, and we should not be content with that, but should be a strong pusher in the European context and in the international context around it. Sweden has been doing this for a long time, and we should not be careful about it. These are questions that are constantly to be raised. We know that within the European Union there are countries that do not comply with the laws that the European Union has laid down. I can mention, among other things, the tail hive on the pig. That is something that we constantly remind ourselves of – you cannot have it, you must take action against those countries that do not follow it. I have taken the initiative with my colleagues in Germany, Holland and Denmark, where we have made a joint resolution to the European Union that has been raised on the Council of Ministers on pig production and pig welfare. It is a very important part that we are constantly pressurers. It can sometimes be uncomfortable to raise these issues, I'll tell Jens Holm, but I'll take them. I promise I won't give up. A number of months ago, I highlighted the use of antibiotics in the Agriculture Council and that it had to be discussed in the TTIP agreement. In fact, I had not expected as much support as I received from so many countries at that time. We know that this has been a sensitive issue for many countries. I was very happy. It was a great support for this position, and the Commissioner even took on board that issue. This issue is now also part of the ongoing negotiations with the United States, and the United States has also said that it is in principle in favour of taking this discussion forward. I think it still shows that there is an opportunity. As far as third countries are concerned, international law is such that it is not possible to go into the production methods themselves. But the important thing is that we in the Union and in Sweden have safe food – we shall have that. Then you have to be a little careful when talking about third countries. These are often poor countries. But I do not believe that the poor countries will be richer if we block them. Instead, we should be involved in helping with, not least, technical assistance and other measures, in order to enable those countries to have stronger animal protection and also to strengthen labour law, which is extremely important. But I do not believe that we should build walls, but rather that we should be involved in influencing in a powerful way. Sweden makes a difference both within the EU and globally. I am convinced that antibiotics are a huge global challenge. It realizes more and more people, but of course we'll keep pushing.
i-8eafe31059d48331-241	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Rural Development spoke earlier in his speech about the growing demand for organic food in Sweden. It does, but where does organic food come from? Well, they are largely imported from Denmark and Germany, for example. These are major lost business opportunities for Swedish farmers. I think it is good that the Minister for Rural Development has raised the issue of antibiotics, for example, in negotiations with the United States. Perhaps we can have that debate at a later date. I know that the US is not at all as alert to demands for the regulation of the use of antibiotics. It is considered quite normal to routinely treat animals with antibiotics. It is not about building walls, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht. There was no one in the mid-1990s, when Sweden got through the ban on paraquat, who accused us of building walls. We wanted to stop a chemical in agriculture that was directly harmful and sometimes dangerous. We managed to do so because we fought at European level. I think it is the same now as regards the import of food. There is an incredible amount of food that is imported but that actually does not comply with Swedish animal welfare legislation or Swedish environmental laws when it is produced. It should be reasonable that the food we sell on our market has actually been produced according to our laws. Now, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, I ask for the third time: Have you even tried? Have you raised the issue at European level and said: Now more than half of the food sold in Sweden is imported, and it is not produced in accordance with Swedish laws. We want the right to make demands for the production of food to comply with our law. Have you even taken that fight? I'd like to know.
i-8eafe31059d48331-245	Madam President, I would like Yes, we are making demands of the European Union. I come to what we want to do to increase also Swedish production. As for the organic, I agree with Jens Holm. It's imported far too much into this country. This could be the case if one had a government that said that it does not believe in Swedish agriculture and reduced the money in the rural programme for organic farming. However, this government has negotiated with the Commission a much higher level of the rural development programme to stimulate organic production. That's 200 million more. But, Jens Holm, it's not certain it's enough. We are seeing such a strong trend among consumers today, and we have the opportunity on a number of occasions during this programming period to turn into further efforts to stimulate this. We are far from self-sufficient in organic products, and that is not good. We're going to have a high rate of animal welfare, and we're going to have a good farm. We shouldn't put the organic against the conventional. Swedish so-called conventional agriculture is highly environmentally friendly agriculture compared to many other countries. It is important that we see that too. How do we increase our production? It is to increase it that we have taken the initiative for a national food strategy. The Prime Minister wrote in his first government declaration that we should have one. It's my job to do it. We have a deep and broad dialogue with interest organisations and with the industries, and I hope that we will be able to make a joint club team here in the Riksdag this spring to increase Swedish food production. It's necessary.
i-8eafe31059d48331-249	Madam President, I would like Rickard Nordin has asked me what my concrete action plan is for how Sweden will implement the directive on the roll-out of alternative fuels infrastructure. The aim of the Directive is to minimise the dependence of transport on oil and reduce its impact on the environment. The Directive requires, inter alia, that each Member State adopt a national action programme for the development of the alternative fuels market in the transport sector and the extension of the related infrastructure. The action programme shall be submitted to the Commission by 18 November 2016. The government wants Sweden to have a fossil-free vehicle fleet and is in favour of the purpose of the directive. The infrastructure for alternative fuels is an important issue in order to switch passenger and freight transport to more sustainable alternatives. The Ministry of Industry, in cooperation with other relevant departments, has started work on the development of the action programme, which will be in line with the Union's existing environmental and climate protection legislation. Of course, stakeholders will be given the opportunity to comment on the action programme in the course of its work. The Directive also contains a number of provisions requiring Member States to regulate certain matters by law. This concerns, in particular, the requirement that charging stations for electric vehicles and gas and hydrogen refuelling stations comply with certain specified standards, but also information requirements for users. The Ministry of Industry has also begun to implement the Directive on these issues.
i-8eafe31059d48331-253	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for a clear answer. There are, however, a few things that I am a little perplexed about. The Minister writes that the government wants a fossil-free vehicle fleet. It is a great and admirable goal and, at the same time, crucial if you are to become the world's first fossil-free welfare state, which the government has also expressed its wish. But this is completely devoid of concreteness, just as in much other government policy. What year is this supposed to be achieved? And how does the government deal with the fact that we have no interim target on the road, now that we have already reached the 2020 target? We in the Center Party would like to see a new sub-target adopted by 2020 of 30% renewable in the transport sector. How does the government feel about that? Would the Minister consider clarifying some of these fine words and floats about fossil freedom and the world's first fossil-free welfare state so that we can assess whether this is ambitious or rather volatile? Would the Minister like to put it into practice so that we can know how important this is to be considered?
i-8eafe31059d48331-255	Madam President, I would like When it comes to the concreteness of timetables and other things for how this work is to be conducted and what goals are both challenging enough to make demands on us jointly and relevant in the sense that they are achievable, work is ongoing in particular within the Ministry of Environment and Energy where Sweden's environmental objectives are handled. We do not have a timetable for Sweden to achieve a fossil-free vehicle fleet at the Ministry of Industry. On the other hand, we have an ambitious plan to work not least with industry, authorities and other stakeholders to speed up this work, which we think has gone a little too slowly. On 30 November, together with Ibrahim Baylan, I will invite stakeholders in the development of alternative fuel infrastructure to get their views on the pace of progress, the role of the state and the market, and how the work should be driven forward. By 18 November next year, this work will be so far advanced that we can leave a clear development plan to the European Commission, as the directive provides for.
i-8eafe31059d48331-257	Mr President, I would like to Quite a few political initiatives have been taken on this issue. The Energy Commission, with which I sit, refuses to talk about transport. Then there is the Analysis Group for Green Conversion and the Environmental Objectives Preparation. Now we are talking about another work where the Government, together with Baylan, will invite various stakeholders. What exactly is the division of responsibilities in the government? For me, it's pretty unclear. It seems that there are a lot of different processes going on. We from the Center Party are a little worried. It constantly refers to the FFF investigation and says that no further investigation is needed. There has been no proposal from the FFF investigation, except for electric buses. But you choose to investigate the bonus-malus system again. With the obligation, nothing happens. We still don't know what will happen to biofuels after the end of the year. What is the distribution of responsibilities? It has been said that we will have a fossil-independent vehicle fleet by 2030. Would the government like to move away from that goal, or how should I interpret the concept of fossil-free vehicle fleet? In addition, there is no date specified. Is the target of a fossil-independent vehicle fleet now moving from 2030 to 2030?
i-8eafe31059d48331-260	Mr President, I would like to No, that is the objective. That's also why you work on quite a lot of different fronts at the same time. This requires action in many different areas. When it comes to what environmental goals Sweden should have and support, it is the Environmental Objectives Committee that deals with this issue. That was also the reason why I said in my first speech that we in the Ministry of Industry do not set any such targets. So it is the Ministry of the Environment that deals with this issue. At the hearing on 30 November, Ibrahim Baylan and I have invited the stakeholders concerned by the roll-out of alternative fuel infrastructure. We want to hear what their vision is. It is an input into the process of developing the action plan for infrastructure development requested by the Commission. After all, the action plan does not depend directly on the environmental objectives we set ourselves, but depends directly on the European Commission requesting all Member States to deliver such an action plan. Then it may be useful to know how those concerned by the question view their own role, the role of the state and how the future can and should be. At the same time, there are a lot of pilot projects going on around the country both on motorways and on alternative fuels for different types of vehicles and modes of transport, and we are following these projects with great interest. This means that regulatory work and regulation work are ongoing, while technology development is underway in parallel. I think the stage right now is extremely exciting. A great deal is happening, and one can say quite rightly that there is now a shift in the view of fossil fuels and how the fleet of vehicles needs to be changed in the future. I can reassure Rickard Nordin that there is work going on in which it is clear who is responsible for what. However, it is inevitable that work takes place in several parallel processes, as action is needed in many different areas. We have said that we should introduce a bonus – Malus system. We believe that it is more effective as an instrument than the current regulatory framework. But like all other tax matters, it is prepared within the Ministry of Finance, and so I think it was in the days of the previous government and it has probably been in the days of all governments, that issues that have a connection with several different departments are distributed so that the ministry that has the best conditions for doing a full-blown work gets the matter on its own. This does not mean that the departments work completely independently of each other, but it is clearly stated that environmental objectives are prepared in the Environmental Objectives Committee, which works under the Ministry of Environment and Energy. Specific questions about vehicle requirements and similar are handled by the Ministry of Industry. Questions about tax legislation are being prepared within the Ministry of Finance – just as it has always been.
i-8eafe31059d48331-268	Mr President, I would like to I agree with the Government that there is a shift in the view of fossil fuels, and that shift is probably primarily the government that stands for it. We have a target of fossil-independent vehicle fleet, but one can be concerned when there are political proposals in the action plan that run counter to this. The tax on biofuels is increased by around SEK 400 million per year. According to the Biofuels Plant Notice, there will probably not be so many new biofuels plants. In addition, the volumes of biofuels we import are at risk. The super-environmental car premium for charging hybrids is being hijacked in a situation where diesel cars make up an increasing proportion of new car sales. This also applies to legal persons – i.e. preferential cars. At the same time, the benefit value is reduced so that it gets even worse. This has a fairly large and far-reaching impact. Is it with the head taken in the government calculation? In the current budget, I see only a deterioration in the transport side, particularly in passenger car transport. This puts the development at risk of going backwards, especially if the tax exemption for biofuels is not passed. Is the impact of the government's budget on climate and transport something taken into account by the Minister for Infrastructure in the work on the action plan?
i-8eafe31059d48331-271	Mr President, I would like to I believe that Rickard Nordin is well aware that the tax issue and biofuels are also part of European legislation. This makes it difficult for us to reward this type of fuel in the way we would have liked. There is also a rather intensive work going on at the Ministry of Finance to influence the EU in order to enable Member States to subsidise biofuels in a different way. As far as the super-environmental car's premium is concerned, the intention of this change is to have more clean electric cars as the market is now becoming mature. In addition, the purchase price of an electric car is significantly higher than that of many other cars, which means that the threshold for buying an electric car is higher. By changing the super environmental car premium so that it becomes less burdensome to buy an electric car, the ambition is to increase that sales and instead reduce the sales of more environmentally friendly cars. Work on developing a plan for the development of alternative fuel infrastructure has just begun. It is also important to identify what the state should do. It is important that the state does not assume all the responsibility for the expansion, but there must be a market that takes place and where the state can participate in the initial phase and start pilot experiments and such things. Work's in progress. The proposals we put forward and the decisions we take together are driving a fleet of vehicles that is fossil independent and that contributes to the transport sector contributing positively to climate and environmental objectives.
i-8eafe31059d48331-275	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp has asked me what changes we can expect when it comes to heavier and longer vehicles. Lotta Finstorp has also asked me if I intend to make it easier to get permits for longer articulated buses – this given that Sweden has high environmental targets and an ambition for more people to travel by public transport. I share Lotta Finstorp's view that a well-functioning and accessible public transport is important. Resource-efficient public transport can reduce the environmental impact of the transport sector while allowing more people to travel together. In Malmö and Gothenburg there are today regular services with articulated buses that are longer than 18.75 meters. The Swedish Transport Agency has issued regulations that allow buses to be carried even though they exceed the maximum length of the Swedish Transport Regulations to enable this traffic. I think it is urgent that the regulatory framework takes account of developments. The Government therefore gave the Swedish Transport Agency a special investigation mission in June this year. The assignment includes investigating and proposing constitutional changes for longer articulated buses, and buses with connected trailer intended for the carriage of passengers, to be able to be carried without special regulations being issued by the Swedish Transport Agency. What possible changes we can expect in relation to these longer buses is it too early to comment on before the investigation has been reported and analysed. The Swedish Transport Agency shall report the assignment to the Ministry of Industry by 29 April 2016.
i-8eafe31059d48331-280	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I think we have a great deal of agreement here, and I also heard that from the answer. To meet the climate challenges and the growing cities, more people need to travel collectively. Trains, trams and buses must be given the conditions to increase attractiveness and to get more people to set up the car and instead travel collectively. Then it is important to find out what changes the behaviour of travellers. Several studies show that, for example, quality, convenience, punctuality and attractive timetables affect whether you choose to travel collectively rather than take the car. It is positive that the regions have looked at what has emerged in investigations and focus on making these changes in order to get more people to travel collectively. The debate often focuses on rail traffic. I have participated in many debates in this House, particularly during the last parliamentary term, where wheels of rubber have been set on track against iron wheels. There will be a completely distorted debate. We will never be able to build tracks to any village or community, but we must have the buses, which, together with rail traffic, can transport mainly commuters – the labour market regions have become much larger. In the debate, it sounds like many more people travel by rail than by bus or coach. In 2013, however, 52 percent travelled by bus, 23 by metro, 13 by rail, 11 by tram and 1 percent by sea. The development of the heavy-duty vehicle segment is taking place very quickly now. For example, a lot is happening around driverless vehicles. If, ten years ago, someone had mentioned BRT, bus-rapid transit, the questions would have been many. But now, as the Minister also says in the answer, for example Malmö and Gothenburg have developed a very good traffic with superbuses, as you can also call it. Then it is also important that we have legislation and regulations that follow developments. A lot has happened in recent years. That's why I've set the interpellation. One can make separate solutions legislatively for the new superbuses, which have had to be done in Malmö and Gothenburg. However, several municipalities and regions are about to introduce longer buses. Then it is a very long way to walk regarding processing times and so on. It may take up to a year, even more than a year, I have heard, for the Swedish Transport Agency to decide on permission to drive longer vehicles. I think the superbuses, the longer buses, have come to stop. They have a much larger capacity and can take over 70 passengers, if I remember correctly. There are straight and clear lines and full priority on your own lanes and lanes. It also means that, as a traveler, you know that you arrive at the time you calculated or set the timetable. I would therefore like the Minister to develop this further. An investigation has been set up, which is very good. But then we have to deliver. There's a little fire in the knots, if I may use that illustration. Regions and municipalities are stagnating and want to start their BRT systems, but it takes far too long to get the decisions out. The lead times are too long. I would like to hear a development of the Minister's response. When can we imagine that this is in place?
i-8eafe31059d48331-289	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my reply, the Swedish Transport Agency will deliver the results of the investigation in April next year. Until then, there will be no changes to the regulation. After all, this is quite new technology that we are beginning to see a development of. Of course, these buses make other kinds of demands. The bus types that have been tried in Sweden have had two trails. In other countries they may have a joint but still be of equal length. When making regulatory changes, one must ensure that road safety is not ignored, consider how vehicles should interact with other traffic, see what requirements may need to be imposed on infrastructure and so on. The easiest thing would have been to just bang the club and say: This is what we allow! But I think it is important to do a proper job to ensure that you do not create problems when the very purpose is to solve problems. As Lotta Finstorp says, the need for new public transport solutions is huge. For environmental and quality of life reasons, we need to reduce private carism in our major cities and switch to modes of transport with less environmental impact. This will also create more space for people to move around the city and take part of the city in a more attractive way, rather than having to be cornered by cars all the time. Therefore, the government has also contributed funds to the urban environment agreements. The idea is for municipalities and regions to come up with ideas on how to develop a strong, efficient, environmentally friendly and sustainable public transport solution, that the state enters as co-financers and that the municipalities and regions as countermeasures, for example, build significantly more housing or make other efforts that together contribute to more attractive urban environments. This is also part of promoting innovation in public transport. There are, of course, very good solutions already today, but I believe that the future of urban development and urban development will make new demands. Our expectations for quality and convenience will also feed the need for new types of public transport. Long buses are, of course, such an example, but I think we will see more in the future. I think we are in fact in full agreement on both the needs and the target. What is missing is that we do it in a way that solves the problems and does not create new ones.
i-8eafe31059d48331-295	Mr President, I would like to I think it is an important debate and discussion that we are having in this House. Even if we have a common understanding of how this is to be done, the target may be different. Last week I had an interpellation debate on the taxation of electricity for electric buses, which is also in this segment – how to get more people to travel collectively and how to meet the challenge of a sustainable society. Then it was the Minister of Finance I interpelled. Perhaps the buses of the future will be powered by electricity. Today, only 0.5 percent of all buses run on electricity. However, while the electricity consumption that drives electric buses forward is taxed, rail traffic by trams and trains is not taxed in the same way at all. It would be interesting to hear how the Minister for Infrastructure sees this, even if it is a tax issue. I have respect for the fact that it was the Minister for Finance who took the debate against me, but there are different elements to this. These include electricity taxation of electric buses. We will not be able to cope with sustainable society if we do not have both rail-bound and rubber-wheeled traffic. We need buses that go, both superbuses and short buses. We also need bicycles, and there must be bike paths that go to exchange points where it is easy to park your bike and where you know it remains when you come back. It is important not to see the modes of transport as solitary, one at a time, but as comprehensive solutions. We will need the bike, the bus, the tram and the train to meet the big challenges. I can feel a concern that the government looks at it as single solutions and misses out on the whole that can make it more effective and that we have a more sustainable society. Although taxation is the question of the Minister for Finance, I would like the Minister for Infrastructure to be able to say something about how the government sees this for the future.
i-8eafe31059d48331-298	Mr President, I would like to I can reassure Lotta Finstorp that in all possible contexts I tend to emphasise the importance of seeing intermodally on all types of transport. What we need to focus on is the role of transport for society to go around and function, the needs of people to move to work, leisure activities, school and much more, the needs of industry to move goods, the need for us to get goods into our shops – not only in cities but also in rural areas – and to try to see how we can ensure that those needs are met as resource-efficiently and efficiently as possible. I believe that we will need to look to a much greater extent at how to get operational flows. For the traveller and commuter, the door - to - door journey is interesting. It does not help if the transport in the middle is never so effective if the end point connections do not work. I believe that the increased digitalisation and information technology will play an incredibly important role there. You will be able to plan your journey in a completely different way and connect your bike, walk and different modes of transport in between. These are different types of subscriptions for several different modes of transport. You may have a subscription that includes some share of public transport, some taxi rides, rental bikes and rental cars in a package that you adapt to your needs. There is a rather intense development going on. We need to combine urban development and planning issues with transport policy and new technologies. All in all, there is a lot of excitement going on. We need to promote this development in different ways by having compliance with regulations. We shall of course ensure that our rules take account of the environment, road safety and other things. At the same time, however, we should not put obstacles in the way of the desired development. That is why we have commissioned Transportstyrelen to investigate the longer buses. We see that there is an area where new opportunities open up and where the current regulatory framework prevents such development. At the same time, I think it is an advantage that we have now had experiments in both Gothenburg and Malmö. This can be included as a basis in how to design the regulatory framework. It is always easier to have something concrete to start from where you see how it works in practice and what possible problems you have encountered. There is no desire on the part of the government to delay or make progress more difficult, but on the contrary. As I said earlier, the urban environment agreements and the money that the government has set aside there are another way of trying to help speed up development. It is a matter of contributing as quickly as possible to both better environment and more attractive cities.
i-8eafe31059d48331-305	Mr President, I would like to Intermodality is exactly what it's all about. It is important to see traffic law as a context. I had the privilege of being on the Housing Planning Committee. There was infrastructure and public transport, and residential planning and construction at regional level was the second. It's about how to get it together in a good way. It does not help if one hand builds housing and the other tries to get to public transport and infrastructure. It must be done in interaction and harmony with each other. I think that in the Committee's work we reached good conclusions. All parties we will see an increase in travellers who travel collectively instead of in their own car. What is problematic is when you focus on the ticket price as the only thing that makes people put the car. The investigations show very clearly that it is about people being able to get from home to work smoothly and without too many interchange points, and preferably where superbuses are located that have their own lanes. However, this requires that urban and interurban planning should take it with it in thought. I read a report from Malmö that the superbuses have become a success with more travelers who go bus to work, school and other studies. The role of bus in society is an important part. I am very pleased that we are not standing in this Chamber and that one is holding on to the iron wheels and the other on the rubber wheels. We need it all.
i-8eafe31059d48331-308	Mr President, I would like to The starting point must be to look at what needs the transport should meet. In this we will need all kinds of transport. There is also a need to increase rail traffic and to expand track in particular in the most capacity-intensive sections. There, trackbound traffic is superior. But this type of very powerful buses has the advantage of being more flexible than a track infrastructure. It's wrong to set different modes of transport against each other. The overall aim is to promote both accessibility and accessibility while at the same time reducing the environmental impact of the transport sector. You need to work with different instruments to achieve those goals. In the past, it was not unusual to plan for a new residential area and only afterwards realized that it might be good to have a bus line there too. When everyone sat there with two cars per household and had already gotten used to driving to work the bus line came. I believe that there is a much greater maturity today when planning new residential areas and planning for transport to and from the residential area. It also works with densification in a completely different way, making use of existing nodes and public transport modes. We're just at the beginning of that journey. Transport is seen as part of community planning and not as something that should live its own life alongside. That is really the key issue in this.
i-8eafe31059d48331-314	Mr President, I would like to We have just noted that we are very much in agreement that longer buses are something positive that we should try to promote in different ways. But we can also say that sometimes the longer vehicles do not work as well as they were intended, and then they need to be towed. Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp has asked me whether the traffic regulation's limitation regarding the maximum length of a vehicle train when towing and towing needs to be reviewed and updated and whether I intend to initiate such work. If I do not intend to initiate such work, Lotta Finstorp wonders what the justification is for not reviewing the legislation. If I intend to do a review, Lotta Finstorp wonders when a proposal can be expected. The question of towing vehicles or combinations of vehicles exceeding the maximum permissible vehicle length 25.25 metres has been raised since the pilots of 24 meter long two-way buses started in Gothenburg public transport 2007. In the event of an accident or accident involving such a long vehicle, the Police Authority has granted a special exemption on a case-by-case basis to carry out the salvage operation. Obviously, such a system should not be used habitually. After the Government gave the Swedish Transport Agency a mandate in June this year to investigate the possibility of more generally allowing long buses in public transport, the issue has been re-examined. I am aware that the Traffic Regulation does not allow the salvage of such long vehicles or vehicles without granting a special derogation. I therefore share the interpellier's view that the rules must follow developments. The Government Office has received a request for an amendment and the Registry prepares the necessary changes.
i-8eafe31059d48331-319	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. More people go collectively. As we said in the previous interpellation debate, it is about being able to solve the societal challenges of our time in order to create a sustainable society. The increased urbanisation means densification and therefore also has a greater environmental impact. Allowing longer buses is an important part of this. That is exactly what we had the previous interpellation debate on. My hope is that it will be allowed to drive with longer buses. Then we need to ensure that the rules of the traffic regulation follow the trend that we get longer buses. It must also be easier than today to tow long vehicles. According to the Transport Regulation, it is not possible today, as the Minister says, to tow or tow a vehicle or train of more than 25.5 metres legally, just as the Minister says. It is a length limitation that poses major challenges for both public transport and the transport sector. Many passenger buses, both articulated and rigid, are currently too long to fit within today's length limit for towing or towing. The length of many trucks, trailers or trailers also exceeds the permissible length for towing or towing. The situation is further complicated by the fact that some trucks are not divisible. In order to do and be able to carry out a towing or towing of these long vehicles, the police authorities need to grant special exemptions, and the police must be physically present at the accident in order to be able to issue the special exemption. It will mean long waiting times if the salvage companies are not to break the law. Just look at this: it concerns long vehicles at all. A bus that is too long to be towed without exemption and is full of passengers and standing on a motorway, the E4 can stand long before a police patrol can prioritise going out to write the exemption. Here we must make a change to the regulation. This can be much more dangerous than when the tow truck driver – the tow truck driver – and the driver together can load the bus much faster and thus avoid hindering traffic and accessibility where the wrecker stands. Similar problems also exist for divisible trucks, but there is also a risk that part of the combination will have to be left in place for the time that the towing or towing takes place, while the construction of support legs on certain trailers may only be used when the trailer is unladen. There is a problem with road safety here, and it is also a question of time. If we think about what we want our police to work with, we must also bear in mind that one can wait a very long time before the police patrol, which may be far away, can come out physically to write the waiver. In the accidenter there can then be a number of travelers who have to wait a long time, and so on. It is good – that this is included in the investigation and that you should look at it. But I'm worried about the delivery, that is, when you're going to make the change. I think this is exactly what the investigation will come up with. I would like to hear some comments from the Minister on this.
i-8eafe31059d48331-328	Mr President, I would like to If the answer was unclear, let me start by saying that this is not part of the mission. Instead, it is a work that is going on internally at the Ministry of Enterprise and Industry to develop proposals for possible changes to regulations regarding the salvage of longer vehicles. It is clear that this should have been done in the past. But I think it is so simple that the problem has not arisen, and that is why it has not been raised. The police department has still not signalled that this is a problem. On the other hand, there have been signals from the salvage industry that there have been concerns when this type of effort has been needed. They have had to wait for the police to be able to obtain the necessary exemption. There are a few things that need to be considered in such a job. It will be very long combination if you have a long bus and also a tow truck. Then, of course, the question should be asked: what specific requirements might need to be placed in connection with such a salvage? For example, how can you make sure that you have access? It's not all roads that are adapted. I nte at least applies to roads where there are roundabouts or similar. How to deal with such situations? Do special requirements need to be laid down on how the tow vehicles are to be equipped in order to be able to carry out a tow safely and effectively? Are there other things in the process that need attention so that the proposed amendment to the regulation will also be possible to deal with in reality? The work going on within the department is so far ahead that it will be referred to the stakeholders in the next few weeks; that is the information I have received. Then we will have to take a position when we hear how the consultation bodies take a position on how to proceed and on what changes to the regulation that might be implemented. But this work is not going on in the Swedish Transport Agency, but internally at the Ministry of Industry. It has gone further because it means less adjustment in a regulation than the work of allowing longer vehicles in general does. It is a much more extensive piece of work.
i-8eafe31059d48331-333	Mr President, I would like to It was interesting to hear that it is an internal work that is going on right now and that it will soon go for a referral. In Almedalen last summer, a number of members of Parliament were brought to the attention of the problem. At the time, there were also police officers and people from the salvage corps and from the Swedish bus companies, who were the ones who arranged this. We had a lot of examples described to us, where it had become incredibly complicated and where one had had to wait for a very long time because things happened in any other part of the police department's area that made it in no way possible to prioritise this. It was low-priority. It's incredibly good if this is going to be a referral soon. As was said in a previous interpellation about the BRT system, there will be more and more longer buses. Then one can really hope that there will be no breakdown with these, but we know that modern vehicles today are like computers. This is nothing where you can call someone at the bus shop who goes out and helps. You often need to have a tow truck, and it causes a lot of trouble both for the bus operator and for the tow trucker, who will have to wait to get the physical visual inspection of the wrecker in order to move it. The change of regulation will hopefully be in place in the near future. I believe that quickly getting this change in place would make it much easier, not least for the bus industry, the tow truckers and the police. I do not know why the police have not contacted the department or anything, but I assume that the police are also a consultation body when the proposal is being sent out in the near future. I am pleased that there will soon be a proposal on the table, and I hope that the implementation will take place quickly. I have a little bit of bad experience with this. Once you have received the referrals and gone through them, there is very little going on until the change that has to happen. I guess the bike investigation is one of those things that hasn't gone that fast. The Alliance government set up the Cycling investigation, and it was completed and came two years ago, I think it was. Very little has happened with it, and I hope that this will not be some kind of new cycle investigation that is being pulled on a long bench. These are rather urgent proposals that must be made, and decisions must be taken.
i-8eafe31059d48331-337	Mr President, I would like to Now this interpellation debate would not be about the bicycle investigation, but I would like to remind you that the bicycle investigation referred to by Lotta Finstorp contained quite a few concrete proposals. These proposals have almost all been implemented. What remains is a change of law in which the consultation bodies have had very different views. I do not really share the view that things have gone so very slowly on this issue. On the other hand, one might think that we need to do more to promote cycling. This requires cooperation between the local, regional and state levels, where responsibility lies primarily locally and regionally. If we are now to return to the salvage of longer vehicles, as this is all about, that work is going on internally at the Government Office, in the Ministry of Enterprise. It will be sent out for a referral shortly. I hope that when we refer this matter, we will have various problems that may arise so that we also take account of and heighten the difficulties that may arise for reasons that may be difficult to predict if one has not been in such a situation. At the same time, it should be remembered that experimental activities have been carried out in only two municipalities, as well as in urban areas. It may continue to be primarily in more population-centred areas that the BRT system will be in question. There is not enough travel documentation elsewhere. But in the city centres it is generally also quite crowded. If they have not originally been planned for such systems with fairly straight streets and special lanes for the buses, this may cause some problems from a tow point of view. I hope that we get so much evidence from the consultation bodies that we can make a change in the regulation that also facilitates this type of situation without ignoring the requirements of road safety and other things that are of course extremely important that we keep taking into account, so that the changes we are making or the new technology that we are adopting and promoting are also managed in such a way that there are no new and difficult problems. We will certainly try to get as many aspects as possible into the preparation.
i-8eafe31059d48331-342	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for the clarification that the internal investigation will soon be the subject of a referral. I fully share the Minister's view that it is clear that a change of regulation cannot be made which means that it may be even more dangerous to traffic than it is today. What needs to be done is to update the restriction of the Traffic Regulation regarding the maximum length of a vehicle train when towing and towing. Then you may also have to have special signs or otherwise show that it is an extra long combination that is towed. However, this will certainly come into the consultation opinions. It doesn't seem to be the rocker science, but it should be possible to solve. Legislation has not followed developments. In recent years we have seen an explosion in relation to the development of the vehicle side to longer vehicles, quite simply. Then this hasn't really come along. I therefore look forward to seeing the referee and that there is a rapid change in place.
i-8eafe31059d48331-345	Mr President, I would like to Speaking of this with speed, I can only note that the work on the first so-called'stem buses', as they are called in Gothenburg, i.e. long and capable buses, began as early as 2007. So they've been in traffic for eight years. Until last year, around this time, this government was not responsible. For seven years out of eight, it was the former alliance government that did not discover this problem and did nothing about it either. If, in just over a year's time, the present government can resolve this, I think we can be satisfied with that. This will certainly be the case in other cases. We are talking about self-driving vehicles, intelligent infrastructure, drones and this type of longer vehicles. In a wide range of areas, we are now faced with technological shifts of various kinds, which also mean that the regulations with which we live do not always fully follow developments. We need a balance all the time. On the one hand, we must support and promote technological development that leads to more climate-smart and efficient transport. On the other hand, we must not overlook, for example, road safety or safety in other respects. It is a matter of some way to rush slowly all the time. However, I believe that the objective is very clear and that, precisely on this particular issue, work is under way which is soon to be completed.
i-8eafe31059d48331-348	Mr President, I would like to Emma Wallrup has asked me if Trafikverket has a plan to guarantee the safety of the part of the railway in the country that has structural defects and that would need to be replaced immediately. Emma Wallrup has also asked me whether I intend to take measures in the planning process to ensure that there is also a priority for further capacity development and to ensure safety on other railway installations throughout the country, when investments are made in new high-speed rail. The Finnish Transport Agency has long been aware that the rail that was rolled between 1976 and 1982 is affected by manufacturing errors and is at risk of longitudinal vertical cracks. As on the rest of the railway network, regular checks are carried out on this rail in order for the Finnish Transport Agency to be able to follow the rate of decomposition. Closer ultrasound checks are also carried out on the beams with rails at risk of longitudinal vertical cracks, in some cases three times as often as the normal control interval. The assessment of any cracks found is more stringent, i.e. that the remarks are given higher priority and therefore require shorter action time. The Finnish Transport Agency thus has good knowledge of the condition of the tracks. And the measures taken are judged to guarantee safety, which always comes first. I share Emma Wallrup's view that there is a need both to maintain and develop the capacity of the existing rail network and to invest in new main lines. The government wants to improve and expand both the national rail network and regional rail traffic and start building high-speed rail lines. We are now entering into the process that will lead to a new national plan and county plans for the transport infrastructure. The Government will take note of information from both Trafikverket and Sweden's negotiations and will return on how to look at the focus of investments and maintenance in a bill to the Riksdag next autumn. The decisions on large infrastructure investments require a long-term approach and benefit from political consensus. The question of which measures are to be included in the new national plan, both investment and operation and maintenance, is addressed by the government in the forthcoming action plan. There are many and difficult balances that will have to be made during this process, but the safety of the rail system is something that we cannot compromise, and the safety of the existing system must not stand back for new investments. For a socially, economically and ecologically sustainable Sweden, we must care for and use the transport infrastructure we have in the most cost-effective and socio-economically efficient way possible, while at the same time implementing urgent extensions of the transport system. The aim is to increase and strengthen the capacity of the railways, so that we get more trains that go on time and increase the reliability of the transport.
i-8eafe31059d48331-353	Mr President, I would like to During the summer, reports revealed that there are structural defects in 200 km of railway tracks. There is a risk that the rails will crack and that trains will derail. This has been known for a long time and should have been addressed as early as 20 years ago. But according to Trafikverket, there have been no resources for this. Since we have long planned our activities with smaller and smaller margins, we have faced the fact that we cannot afford to prioritise such measures as, for example, guarantee, as in this case, the safety of passengers. I think that is very serious. I was pleased by the Minister's reply that the Finnish Transport Administration says that it has an eye on this and has a strategy to deal with it. However, it has emerged from several investigations, and most recently from representatives of the Transport Agency in the Transport Committee, that there are shortcomings in the revision of the whole rail system. The Finnish Transport Agency does not really have the capacity to keep track of the entire facility. I would therefore like to ask the Minister if she feels confident about the Trafikverket strategy. I also raised the issue of investments in the entire infrastructure network and rail trains when we are planning for a high-speed network. Both in France and in China, a high-speed network has been set up, and then the original rail network has been forgotten. Both in China and in France, the original rail network has collapsed. It is terribly unfortunate if it should happen in Sweden because Sweden is a long and large country. We are very dependent on a functional rail network throughout the country. We all know what major problems already exist with regard to rail trains. That is why I am asking this question. The FFF study concluded that high-speed investments are not really the most priority for achieving climate objectives. It highlights the particular importance of investing in regional rail transport and in rail transport throughout the country. It is about both the supply of goods and passenger transport, and that is why it is particularly important that we focus on the railways throughout the country and do not let high-speed railways take over. The Left Party is in favour of high-speed trains because we have a climate challenge and we need to reduce flights down to the continent. In the long term, we need to link high-speed trains from Sweden down to the continent, and we need to plan for that now. It's important. It is also the case that we are building new high-speed lines, which means that we will have a higher capacity on the existing tracks. In fact, part of passenger transport moves to high-speed roads. So there are many positive aspects to this, but it is still important that we do not forget the existing tracks but continue to maintain and continue to expand the train infrastructure. This is especially true up in Norrland. It is gratifying that in the negotiations with the Left Party, the government has decided to invest more in railway maintenance. We come up to about 8 billion a year, and that is a positive thing. The problem, however, is that it has been pointed out for a long time that around 10 billion are actually needed.
i-8eafe31059d48331-361	Mr President, I would like to This is a discussion that actually moves across many different areas at the same time. That must also be the case, because we have to consider and try to solve several different problems at the same time. The ultimate objective is, of course, to offer the most efficient means of transport. They must be not only environmentally sustainable but also economically and socially sustainable. So we should both connect our country – and link it to other countries – and reduce the negative climate impact of the transport sector. As far as high-speed roads are concerned, the aim is really twofold. One aim is to make the train more attractive as a mode of transport even on the slightly longer routes. Above all, this applies, of course, in the southern part of Sweden, between our three major cities. It should thus be a more sustainable travel option. The second objective is to expand capacity because existing main lines have hit the capacity ceiling. The construction of the new high-speed lines will also mean the freeing up of existing tracks for other types of traffic, such as slow commuter traffic and freight traffic. Thus, it can be said both that faster connections have a value in themselves and that there is a goal of increasing the capacity of an existing system. However, when we eventually arrive at the new national plan, to be adopted in 2018, I believe that it will, as always, be about priorities. Even if we had huge ambitions and all the money in the world, we would be forced to give priority. Even if we had all the money in the world, there wouldn't be resources in the form of capacity, machines and skills to do everything. So we will always have to make the priorities. When we make the priorities, however, we should be careful not only to focus on what is new and cool, but also on what problems or needs in society our transport systems should actually solve. It goes without saying that the existing plant has a very high priority, because it does not work well enough today. It doesn't help if we have a new track that works if we have a lot of other tracks that don't. I'm pretty sure there's no quick fix. This is a problem that has arisen over a long number of years, and it means that it will take a number of years to restore or develop quality to an acceptable level. Alexandersson's interim report on maintenance also demonstrates the need to gain better knowledge of the facility, and the Swedish Transport Administration itself has said that this is an area where more work is needed. If we are to be able to do a wise and balanced planning of maintenance measures, we need an aggregated knowledge of what the situation is now. With regard to the issue that Emma Wallrup began with, which concerns the malfunctioning of the rail system, it concerns a limited part of the network. The Swedish Transport Administration has said that you have good control over that part, because you know the problem and you have good control of where this rail is. There is also close supervision. So security is not threatened. Safety is always what goes first and what always goes first. If you notice problems that may threaten safety, you should reduce speed or simply close.
i-8eafe31059d48331-367	Mr President, I would like to The problem is that we get quite a lot of reports, including from Seko and railway workers, that safety cannot be guaranteed. For example, in Stockholm it is reported that there are rails that are not even firmly anchored in the ground and so on. This does not have money to fix, and that is a huge problem. As I concluded my last speech, 10 billion would be needed to cover the maintenance needs we have. We now have 8 billion in our common budget, so we really need to increase it. At the same time, when talking to stakeholders related to the work on this, they clearly say that it would be difficult to fix what needs to be addressed even if we spent a lot more money at the moment. The organisation is not working; it is too many actors and too little coordination. This could indeed be facilitated by the direction of the Left Party and the government has agreed, namely that the state should assume the overall responsibility for control and maintenance of the Swedish railways. If we continue on this path, I am convinced that we will be able to resolve this much better in the long term. At the same time, money is needed both for maintenance and for expansion throughout the country, in addition to high-speed investments. I would recommend that we venture to invest and borrow, especially at a time when the population is growing very rapidly. According to economic theories, an increased population is an important parameter for strengthening the economy of a country or a municipality. If you use the situation correctly and invest in jobs and infrastructure while expanding society, you can thus get out stronger with an increased population. That is precisely why it is so extremely important to invest now. Several actors, including the Construction industries and the head of Swedish Export Credit, recommend that we dare to borrow more now that we have such a good interest rate position. I know that the government and others are talking about OPS solutions instead, that is to say to involve the business community in solving the major investments that need to be made. Unfortunately, the construction industries, which many talked to in Almedalen this summer, point out that they are not interested in such a solution. This will increase the rents of housing and make it more difficult for people to afford to live. So the construction industries made it very clear that they are not interested in such a solution. They had four five seminars with us politicians on this in Almedalen, so they were very convinced of it. Instead, they advocate loan financing, just like the head of Swedish Export Credit. I would just like to point out that it is important to think these issues through carefully. It is both about strengthening the whole country – making the whole country live – and about taking care of the people who come here. Together, we will build a society where we will come out stronger. My question to the Minister is how the Minister sees that we can solve the major efforts that need to be made and which are, in fact, essentially about a climate change change in order to cope with the future.
i-8eafe31059d48331-375	Madam President, I would like It's been a couple of hours since we started debating this interpellation, so I'll try to remember about where we were. As Emma Wallrup pointed out in her speech, the need for both new and urban infrastructure is extremely important, especially at a time when our population is increasing and we see a great need to turn the transport system into more of sustainability and at the same time to use the transport system as a way to increase Sweden's growth and ability to develop and attract as well as competitiveness. At the same time, we should be aware that it is not only in the area of infrastructure that we see great needs. It would have been very nice for me as Minister of Infrastructure if it had only been a need for rail that we saw before us in the coming years. But we will have a great need to expand the welfare sector and not least to build new housing, that is, we see great needs around society. What we are doing right now in this strained situation will require quite a lot of reflection, so that we do the right things and in a way that does not mean that we are wasting our future opportunities to both safeguard a healthy economy and ensure that society develops positively. I think it is important at this stage that we look widely at different possibilities for funding and at the beginning we do not dismiss any opportunities but look at loan financing, increased funding, OPS solutions, opportunities for more types of user fees and so on, because we see an increased need here, while the needs in other parts of society are also very large. I think we are quite in agreement about what the problem picture and the needs picture look like. But what we do must be balanced and well adapted to the current situation, but also take up the height of a future situation.
i-8eafe31059d48331-380	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer. I agree that we agree on the need for investment now, including in infrastructure and housing. But there are many players who advocate loan financing, both Swedish Export Credit, as I said earlier, and Sweden's Construction Industries. They would rather see loan financing than co-financing where the price of the land is raised. They are just pointing out that this would mean that there will be more expensive housing for the citizens. There is a tendency today to allow the citizen here and now to pay for the entire investment of an infrastructure to be used for a very long time to come. This applies, for example, to the renovation of rental apartments. The possibility has been removed for companies to put away money for renovations, so that everything will be paid here and now by the resident, even though there are many people who will live in the apartment for a long time. The same is true of the infrastructure. The railway will be used for a very long time to come. Then it is really quite wise to spread the costs more so that more people are paying over longer periods of time, especially when interest rates are low. I am also concerned about what is being discussed about spending pension money on investment, because I am keen that we do not undermine the basis of our pensions. There is talk of infrastructure investment paying itself with different kinds of charges that either affect the citizen here and now or that will not give so much profit back to the pension company that you profit from it. When you think about investments, I think that it is important to think about the infrastructure's entire use time and to spread the costs more fairly for the users but also for our children, so that we dare to invest as much as is needed now.
i-8eafe31059d48331-385	Madam President, I would like As Emma Wallrup says, the infrastructure we are building will now be used by generations to come. At the same time, we cannot rule out the possibility that, even in 50 years' time, investment needs will be faced. Here too, of course, we need to find a balance so that we do not over-lock future generations. When it comes to opening up the possibility for pension companies to invest in infrastructure objects, it is not a question of controlling the funds, but it is still the case that those who manage our pension money should do so in a way that guarantees a long-term increase in value so that we safeguard the value of our pensions. What makes there is an interest from not least foreign pension companies to invest not only in Sweden but at all is the low interest rate situation today. To get a long-term return, you look for safe investments that provide a stable return over time. I do not think it is reasonable to dismiss that possibility without at least looking at what it would offer. All in all, I would like to say that the need to make new infrastructure investments and to maintain the infrastructure we have, so that we have a functioning system, is very great. The government has high ambitions in this area. This is evident not least in the major investments that we are now making on maintenance measures, but also in urban planning agreements and other things that are aimed at changing the transport system and ensuring good accessibility throughout the country and strengthening competitiveness for Sweden in the future as well.
i-8eafe31059d48331-388	Madam President, I would like Mr Rothenberg has asked me how I feel about the Commission's proposal for a new court system for state-business investment disputes and what it is in the current system that the government believes needs to be modernised. Mr Rothenberg has also asked me how the government intends to ensure that the EU's investment protection proposals are better and cheaper than the current system and that the promotion of investment is given a prominent role in TTIP. Let me begin by agreeing with Mr Rothenberg on the importance of transparent, clear and stable conditions for international investment. An EU-US FTA should be both deep and comprehensive and cover all important aspects of trade and investment. The Government's objective is to achieve as ambitious a result as possible in order to support growth and employment without compromising the possibility of strengthening the protection of the environment, workers' interests and human and animal health. These are also objectives that the EU Member States have unanimously set out in the Commission's negotiating mandate from the Council of Ministers. Investment protection rules aim to provide investors with basic protection against discrimination and expropriation, among other things. If an arbitration tribunal finds that a protection principle in a contract has been violated, it can only decide on financial compensation to the investor but not reject a country's laws or decisions democratically taken. Older investment protection agreements have been flawed. Among other things, considerable room for interpretation has been left to the arbitration tribunals, and the agreements have therefore not sufficiently ensured the regulatory rights of states. Furthermore, previous dispute resolution mechanisms have not been transparent and the ethical requirements for arbitrators and the possibility of accountability have been insufficient. The Commission's proposal for the design of investment protection in TTIP, building on reforms in the negotiated agreements with Canada and Singapore, concerns investment protection provisions as well as proposals for a modified dispute resolution mechanism. It was preceded by a public consultation and has been well received by the European Parliament and by the Member States. Modernising investment protection is a key element in negotiations with the US. The proposal confirms the right of States to legislate in order to achieve legitimate general purposes. It is clarified that an investor cannot expect legislation to remain unchanged. The Commission proposes a modernised dispute settlement system in the form of an investment tribunal and a review body. The judges are appointed by the parties to the dispute for longer periods of time and are assigned to cases without interference by the parties to the dispute. The proposal also includes strengthened ethical rules for judges and rules on increased transparency, including an obligation to disclose whether a dispute is financed by a third party. As regards the cost issue, the Commission's aim has been to limit the costs of the parties to the dispute by introducing time limits for the handling of cases in the General Court and the Appellate Body. Sweden has brought to the Commission the importance of reforms which in particular limit the costs of small and medium-sized enterprises. The Commission has also taken into account the costs of the Contracting Parties, inter alia by proposing a limited number of judges and an opportunity to request expert opinions. The Commission's proposal is in line with the positions and proposals of the government. The government wants to see well-defined investment protection and a reformed dispute settlement mechanism in future trade agreements. The proposal provides a good basis for future negotiations with the US.
i-8eafe31059d48331-396	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. As is well known, there is a process going on involving the Commission and, in this case, Commissioner Malmström's proposal for a new kind of court system for investment disputes. It is linked to the TTIP, that is, the EU-US Free Trade Agreement. The idea is that an EU position will be developed in the near future with the intention of then handing over the proposal to the US. There must be transparent, clear and stable conditions for increasing international investment, which is good for jobs and growth. For Sweden, this is a crucial issue, not least in relation to the United States. In this case, however, there is already a well-functioning dispute resolution system. It's called ISDS. It is for situations where an investor considers himself to have been discriminated against or otherwise unfairly treated by a State. The most common is that the arbitration procedure is used to resolve the dispute as it offers a neutral arena compared to whether it should be dealt with in the relevant country's judicial system. There are some problems with the Commission's proposal as regards the system and the method for resolving disputes between a state and an investor. The argument behind the proposal is that the ISDS system is outdated and in need of modernisation. This argument does not hold true because the current system has been modernised in several ways in recent years. For example, the rules introduced under the UN system have significantly improved transparency. As far as the arbitrators are concerned, the appointment of arbitrators has been transferred from the disputing parties to the contracting parties, in this case the USA and the EU. The Minister highlights this as a good development. However, it must be pointed out that the current system puts the parties on an equal footing and allows them to appoint their arbitrators. Instead, allowing States to appoint all arbitrators is a major departure from the fundamental principle of party equality, which has long been the hallmark of arbitration. The Commission's proposal risks leading to a politicisation of the system, and it is prompted by the fact that the proposal makes it states that will have to negotiate the appointment of individuals who will later judge in disputes. Madam President, I would like Nor does it become clear in the cost section. The vast majority of the costs involved in the arbitration procedure come from the representatives. By definition, the introduction of an extra instance involves higher costs, since it is usually necessary to have a representative for a longer period of time. If the government prioritises limiting the costs of small and medium-sized enterprises, this is a step in the wrong direction, regardless of which regulations are introduced to limit the costs of expert witnesses or for the duration of proceedings. It's a little hard to see what the government really thinks. What is the stance in the process of developing an EU position? The suspicion is that one runs a position that does not really rhyme with Sweden's economic interests. How does the government believe that the Commission's proposal, in its current or revised form, will be received by the US, the EU's negotiating partner in the TTIP negotiations?
i-8eafe31059d48331-407	Madam President, I would like This trade agreement is very important for both the US and Europe. If the trade agreement falls into place and we reach a good agreement, it will create the world's largest free trade area with one third of world trade and half of the global GDP. We therefore have a great interest in getting the agreement in place. For Sweden, the issue of investment protection is important because Sweden makes major direct investments in the United States. The United States also makes major direct investments in Sweden. The United States is the country outside the European Union that means most to Sweden's trade and creates the most jobs in our country. So these are important issues. Part of the question concerns ISDS, the dispute settlement mechanism in the agreement. I believe that Mr Rothenberg knows that there has been a major European debate on these issues. There have been several countries which, in principle, have said in their parliaments that they should slow down or stop the whole TTIP negotiations unless there is a modernisation of the dispute settlement mechanism. There has been a discussion since the Commission presented the proposal on 16 September. I noted that, for example, Mr Fjellner of the Moderate Party Group in the European Parliament welcomed the proposal and said that it was a good proposal and that it was a stepping stone towards further negatives with our trading partners. I understand that the Conservative Group in the European Parliament has also welcomed the proposal as a step further both for the whole and in substance in terms of modernising the dispute settlement mechanism. I have tried to be clear that the Commission's proposal is in line with the positions and proposals of the government, that the government wants to see a well-defined investment protection and a reformed dispute settlement mechanism in future trade agreements and that the proposal provides a good basis for future negotiations with the US. I cannot be much clearer about what the government's position in this is. I don't know what to write then. It is important to see that Sweden is part of this and that we should have a good agreement, but we must also see that the whole European discussion is important. Two parts were raised. How does it affect that it is not the disputing parties who appoint arbitrators in the future? It is true that it is no longer the disputing parties who appoint their arbitrators. The background to the reform is an effort to strengthen the integrity and legitimacy of the system and to counter conflicts of interest. This is done, inter alia, by the fact that the judges' identity is not known in advance to the parties to the dispute. In addition, strict ethical rules are introduced to guarantee the independence of judges. The second part deals with costs. This is an issue that Sweden has been monitoring, and during the process we have talked to the Commission about the need for a balanced proposal. In designing the new dispute resolution mechanism, the European Commission has sought to balance different interests, increased legitimacy, legal certainty and predictability in limiting costs and time. Time limits have been introduced for the handling of cases in the Investment Protection Tribunal and the Appellate Body, and they will make the processes more cost-effective. The average process time should therefore decrease rather than increase, which reduces costs. At the same time, the costs of the Contracting Parties have been taken into account, inter alia by proposing a limited number of judges and an opportunity to request expert opinions in order to also address the cost issue. The Commission is therefore trying to take this into account. We understand that the Commission is perhaps considering a number of additional adjustments on the cost side to ensure that not least small and medium-sized enterprises are treated well in the new system.
i-8eafe31059d48331-420	Madam President, I would like It is clear that this is an important issue for Sweden. Here, the Government and I are in complete agreement. That is precisely why it is important for the agreement to be good in all its parts. There must be no spots on this sun. As one of the countries that is always at the forefront in defending free trade worldwide, it is important that Sweden has eyes on the spots in the proposals. As Mikael Damberg says, there are countries and actors who want to slow down and stop this. It is enough to read LO's paper Work. Here is a massive campaign to perhaps not slander the TTIP negotiations but strongly argue against them. There is therefore also an opinion within the Minister's party, which I notice reflects the approach. I would like the government to be just as offensive and aggressive as it should be in these negotiations. Once the free trade agreement is sanctioned by the EU, the US and the Member States, there is no way back. Then we do not sit down and do it all over again, but it must be right from the start. Sweden's economy and Swedish companies depend on predictable and robust systems. Given that Sweden is the largest foreign investor in the United States per capita, this plays a major role. In addition to the importance of the issue itself, it is important when the EU's position will be bearing on the TTIP negotiations. The current ISDS mechanism is relatively flexible and cost-effective. We have an arbitral tribunal that belongs to the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce and is fairly prominent in this area. I do not really see why the Swedish Government should be behind changing that model. There are certainly many reasons for the Commission to table proposals for amendments. We have different perspectives in the various parliaments. That is why Mr Fjellner may press one button in the European Parliament while I press another in the Swedish Parliament. That is quite correct; that is how it should be. But now we are in the Swedish parliament, and it is the Swedish government that should give clear signals to influence the EU in the right direction. I wonder: what is the government's view when it comes to the risk of the Commission's proposal leading to a politicisation of the system? Because that is exactly what it will do, prompted by the fact that the proposal makes it states that have to negotiate the appointment of individuals who will later judge in disputes. Madam President, I would like To say that the proposal provides a good basis for negotiating with the United States is a truth with modification, because the reaction of the United States has been anything but positive. It is a unilateral proposal that will have to be put on the table in the discussions with a counterpart who, in all contexts, emphasises the importance of building on the current rules. The final result is likely to have to be substantially modified. The American side was out last week criticising the Commission's proposal explicitly.
i-8eafe31059d48331-429	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that the Social Democrats are very clear on the TTIP issue and the free trade issue. It has been confirmed not only during this parliamentary term but also historically. Sweden's free trade-friendly approach has been largely shaped by a collaboration in the Swedish parliament where the Social Democrats have been driving because we know how much of Swedish welfare depends on trade and exports. I know the Moderates sometimes have a fondness for attacking LO. On one issue, however, much recognition must be given to the Swedish trade union movement, and that is the discussion of the TTIP agreement in Europe. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and Industry and LO have even jointly gone to the United States to influence the American discussion on the TTIP agreement, because both parties believe that it is good for Sweden and Europe as well as the United States. LO has also made great efforts in Europe to influence the European trade union movement, which is not at all as free trade friendly as the Nordic trade union movement. Sometimes we have to pay tribute to organisations that stand up for free trade and have done so for a long time. There are of course members of LO associations as well as individual people who have different views, but LO and not least Karl-Karl-Petter Thorwaldsson have had a very constructive discussion in Sweden but also in Europe and the USA. I note that there is a clear difference in the arguments of the Moderates in Sweden and the Moderates in the European Parliament. I think we need to see that we are part of a European debate. If you really want to achieve a good agreement, you also need to relate to the discussion that is taking place in Europe and to think about what input Sweden should make in a European context in order to achieve both a European position that is good and progressive and to give Europe weight in the negotiations to be held with the United States. On the contrary, I would be a little surprised if the Moderates would completely stick to the old ISDS system in the discussion that we have had. I think it is a good thing that the new Commission proposal confirms the right of states to legislate in order to achieve legitimate public purposes. I think it is good to clarify that an investor cannot expect legislation to remain unchanged over time. I think it is a good thing to propose a review body to make it clear that there are no secret negotiations that cannot be resolved in any way. It is a good development of the dispute settlement mechanism. I think it is good to strengthen the ethical rules for judges in order to ensure that they have unscrupulous judges who judge in the proceedings. These were some examples. Sweden has intervened and had discussions at European level on modernised investment protection, precisely because we want to safeguard such protection. We know that it means a lot to the will and ability of business to invest and take risks in other markets. But then we in Europe must also dare to have a discussion about what has been bad about the old system. The progress made in the agreement, not least with Canada and Singapore, was a step towards reforming and modernising investment protection. One should see that it was a further step forward when the European Commission came forward with its proposals, which, as I understand it, now unite the Member States of the European Union to a large extent and also receive strong support in the European Parliament. Should I interpret it as Hans Rothenberg proposing that Sweden should have a position in which we tear up the unity that seems to be emerging in Europe around modernised investment protection? It would really be pushing the issue forward and making it more difficult to get a TTIP agreement with the US in place under President Obama. I would certainly be the first to regret that.
i-8eafe31059d48331-441	Madam President, I would like That is precisely what is important: that Sweden should act within the framework of the European Union. We shall have a clear agenda for how we want the agreement to be drawn up, how we want to push the Commission ahead of us and how we can influence our position. We should not simply accept and think uncritically: here the Commission has said one thing – well, then we are right in line, thank you for that and agree. That, if anything, is an uncritical attitude. We should, of course, be nailing the proposal. The government should do and define what was bad in the old ISDS system. Should you throw the baby out with the bath water just to make it new? The government's task in the negotiation is to make these contributions. As for the love history of Moderates and LO, it has always offered many warm embraces and stabs in the back, perhaps of mutual quality. I note, however, that LO's house organ, the Work magazine and its editor Martin Klepke, who once a week goes out to celebrate free trade, is not a representative of LO and hence the labour movement, on the contrary. Madam President, I would like The government should act so that states' rights do not go out on smaller and individual actors, that is, small companies. The government should pursue a line within the EU that protects the well-functioning system we have to resolve investment disputes, not undermine it. It is not enough to hope that the end result will be good. Sweden must actively work for a final product that protects our interests as one of the largest foreign investors in the United States. Let us connect with the EU's Small Business Act. Think small first! That's thinking big.
i-8eafe31059d48331-448	Madam President, I would like Finally, I note that in no way does Sweden just wait for the European Commission and swallow what it says, rather the opposite. We have worked closely with the European Commission's Cecilia Malmström, which has developed the proposal. The proposal now being presented is well in line with the Government's ambitions for modernised investment protection. It is both good in substance and important for the European discussion to get agreement. I now see that there is more or less agreement on ISDS and the protection of investment among the Member States and in the European Parliament. In this situation, the Moderates in Sweden propose that Sweden should have a different position and reject the modernised investment protection. I think it is a rather remarkable position in a situation where both of our parties say that these are important issues. I think it is a good negotiated solution which is now under discussion and which forms the basis for the negotiations. Above all, it is important for Europe to present its views to the United States so that negotiations can move forward in these important areas. It is also a position that should be taken into account when discussing what Sweden's position should be. We have a great interest in getting the agreement in place, but it should be a good agreement and good negotiated positions on the part of the European Union. I have tried to say in the interpellation response that the government thinks the proposal is.
i-8eafe31059d48331-453	Madam President, I would like Jessica Rosencrantz has asked the Minister for Infrastructure if she believes that it is reasonable for the State to withdraw nearly SEK 2 billion from SJ in 2015 and how she estimates that SJ's ability to finance the investment in the new high-speed trains in the longer term is affected by the dividend decision. The responsibility within the government is so shared that it is I who should answer the question. Managing state-owned companies is a responsible task that must be carried out in an active and professional manner with value creation as an overall goal. The guiding principles for the management of state-owned companies are transparency, active ownership, professionalism and order. One of the most important tools for effective governance is to set and follow up targets. The Government has a defined method and process for setting economic targets for the companies with state ownership. The aim is to ensure value creation in the company portfolio through the efficient conduct of operations while keeping financial risks at a reasonable level. Established objectives are followed up and are an important part of the ongoing dialogue with the companies. The 2014 Annual General Meeting decided on new financial targets for SJ as a result of a project carried out in cooperation between the owner, the board and SJ's management. The new targets are based on the company's business plan including planned investments, moving and market development as well as industry comparisons. In connection with the project, the capital structure was reviewed. As part of this, the Board of Directors decided that an additional dividend is necessary for the company to be able to meet its financial targets and enter the target range for the debt ratio. Train travel in Sweden has increased very strongly in recent years, which is a gratifying development. An important priority for the government is to improve opportunities for rail travel. The Government therefore invests SEK 1.24 billion per year during the period 2016 – 2018 on increased maintenance of the railways in order to increase the competitiveness of the railways. In order to cope with future investments, SJ's operations must of course continue to be managed efficiently and competitively. Traffic on the new high-speed lines is expected to start in 2035 at the earliest. In its long-term planning, SJ works with plans for future investments in, among other things, high-speed trains. At the latest when these plans are put into practice, it is appropriate to re-analyse questions about the company's financing and capitalisation. It should be pointed out that there is currently open market access for commercial rail services. The commercial conditions for high-speed trains are affected by a wide range of factors that are currently being analysed by the Swedish negotiation. The way in which high-speed lines will be operated is therefore not yet decided.
i-8eafe31059d48331-459	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I should like to begin by saying that I find it sad that the Minister for Infrastructure does not want to take this discussion. We are talking about a record dividend from SJ of nearly 2 billion this year. It is a rather strange attitude that it does not concern the Minister for Infrastructure, who is responsible for Sweden's transport system, that so large sums are taken from a dominant player, as SJ is on the rail market. Earlier today, we had the Minister for Infrastructure in the committee, where she stated that it is not her responsibility or that it is not on the Minister for Infrastructure to ensure that SJ operates well. Against all of this, I object. It is both the infrastructure minister's responsibility and the government's responsibility to ensure that SJ has good and stable conditions to be able to operate properly. That is why I am concerned, but I am also grateful that today I can have discussions with the Minister for Economic Affairs instead. We have a common political ambition to increase train travel in our country. But we also know that there are many challenges. We have a worn-out facility. We need to invest in maintenance. But we also know that we have big plans for our train system. From both sides of the political middle line, we want to invest in building a high-speed system, for example, which requires large investments also from an operator like SJ, if we are to have any trains that can operate the tracks. That is why, Madam President, I am concerned when it feels like the government lacks a comprehensive grasp of how we can get an increase in train travel but also how we can enable efficient connections to Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö with new high-speed trains when, unfortunately, SJ is treated in this way as a cash cow, a budget regulator, if you like. Suddenly you want more money, and then you decide to take nearly 2 billion in a year from SJ. It is then worth commenting that in one year this government takes twice as much as the Alliance did in its eight years or if you want 15 times the average under the alliance government. Then I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs whether it is the government's new policy to treat the state companies as cashiers. Can the Government guarantee that the massive dividend will not be passed on to SJ's operations in the future, that SJ will be able to invest in the high-speed trains needed to operate the new routes on which we are said to agree? Can the Government guarantee that SJ will meet these challenges? Is it the government's new policy to sell out the state companies in this way?
i-8eafe31059d48331-467	Madam President, I would like It is nice that we in Swedish politics now agree that we need high-speed trains between our big cities in Sweden. It was not so long ago that high-speed trains were called science fiction and it was said that it was robustly unprofitable to invest in high-speed trains. I welcome the fact that the Moderates have changed their minds on this issue and that there is now a broad political agreement to make high-speed trains between our three major cities, that it is a high priority that unites political blocs. It is also important that the Swedish negotiators work on this issue, linked also to the issue of housing construction. I also understand that we are in agreement here. I am absolutely convinced that better railways are needed both for jobs and for the climate. One is a little surprised by Jessica Rosencrantz's choice of words: skin the state companies, the cash cow, the budget regulator. If you think back: Who set the financial targets for SJ 2014? It was Anders Borg and the Moderate Government – last year. I thought a little bit: I, as owner minister responsible for these very issues, have to relate to the goals that exist for SJ's activities, which have been developed. Why have targets been set? It is a new process that the bourgeois government has introduced in order to set an economic goal for each of the state companies. Why is there a target for the capital structure? Because the Moderates thought it was important that we had goals for capital structure, so that competition takes place on equal terms between different companies. Are the Moderates no longer because we are setting economic targets for the state companies? We are following the goal set by the Moderates last year. That objective should in some way lead to some form of government action if a company does not meet the capital structure objectives set for a company within the state. It would be good if we agreed not to use these superiors, at least linked to the objectives set by the former bourgeois government for SJ AB. I think we should be more in agreement on the discussion on how to get the high-speed tracks in place and how to ensure that it becomes a good playing field so that all train operators know what the rules of the game should be for operating the tracks. Then we will have a discussion about what actually leads, for example, to SJ being one of the players involved and competing for the high-speed train in the future. I would think – although there is still much left of the process – that it would be sad if SJ did not compete for the high-speed train ahead, if Sweden decides to build it. It would be a failure for our state-owned company. However, it is a partly different question than what economic goals should be set for the business operator SJ AB.
i-8eafe31059d48331-473	Madam President, I would like There is nothing in the new targets that requires a dividend of 2 billion. This is partly illustrated by the fact that a dividend of 230 million was paid in early 2015 – after the new regulatory framework. I note that the state as an owner must follow certain basic principles: be active, professional and responsible and ensure that the administration takes place in the long term with value creation as an overall goal. These are important key words. Of course, different amounts can be discussed and how much is appropriate to charge. However, I can also say that the challenges in our transport system are great at the moment. There are great investment needs, and SJ's concerns are expressed about how to buy in, for example, these trains that will be able to operate our new tracks. I can see that during the alliance government there were dividends of 150 million in 2007, 169 million in 2008, 181 million in 2009, 153 million in 2010, and roughly so it continued. Some year it was 12 million and some year it was 73 million. It then bounces to 2015 when the new government together makes a dividend of 1 930 million, i.e. almost 2 billion. I am the first to agree that there are many important efforts for the state to make. But I also think it is important to ensure that SJ, which is the dominant player in the market in many respects, is able to carry out a functioning business. We also need to put this in context. The government not only chooses to take a lot of money from SJ. The corresponding priority is given to Akademiska Hus, to take an example from the housing discussion. Nevertheless, I would like to ask again whether it is the government's intention in the coming years to greatly increase dividends from state-owned companies as has been done this year. In that case, I think we need to have an even more serious discussion about how SJ as an actor should be able to live up to the commitments it has.
i-8eafe31059d48331-479	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by agreeing that Sweden's railways have many challenges. That is also why the government is making such large billion-dollar investments in the maintenance of the railways. Without a functioning maintenance and runways that work, SJ and other companies operating the runways will not be able to do their job. This is what has led to major delays with problems both for freight traffic in Sweden and for passenger traffic. We are making a record investment in the railway network to enable it to compete with both aircraft and cars. We want to expand the environmentally friendly transports in Sweden, and we see that we have good conditions to do so. When it comes to the dividend from SJ AB, I assume that the Riksdag believes that the Government should comply with the objectives and economic objectives set for the state companies. In this case, it is a bourgeois government that has set the economic goals of SJ AB, and we follow the economic goals. If Jessica Rosencrantz thinks that those goals mean that SJ AB becomes a cash cow and a budget regulator and that the state is skinned on funds, her questions should be addressed to Anders Borg and Fredrik Reinfeldt and the former bourgeois government that set these goals. I would like to stress that these objectives are set on the basis of SJ's investment plans. It is done together with the companies. You look at the investment plans and how the companies want to conduct the business, and so you make joint plans for which the dividend should be in order to achieve the financial goals that the company has. Just to be clear, what does it mean if SJ cannot meet the financial goals that have been set for the company? Then we risk getting into a situation where we get a discussion about state aid issues and that SJ, as the interpellier pointed out, is a dominant company in the field of traffic in Sweden, has completely different financial rules than the private operators. Then the state can be criticized for it instead. I know that many have views on SJ's activities. I think the most important thing in the long term is that SJ continues to carry out solid work to be both profitable and good. It will require increased investment in maintenance and it will require increased debt in the company, just as the company is now planning to do, namely to borrow for increased investments. Then it is important to ensure that the company also pursues the economic goals that apply. If you want to change the economic objectives, you can do so. I know it's been discussed in Parliament, and we're going to think about it, if we're going to give SJ another type of assignment. It goes without saying that, in this case, the economic objectives of the company must also be looked at. Today it is a commercial company in which the bourgeois government has set economic targets for the company, and then it is also reasonable for us to follow the economic goals.
i-8eafe31059d48331-484	Madam President, I would like I would like to remind you again that there is nothing in the regulations about the need to make a dividend from SJ of just 2 billion. Compared to previous dividends of 73, 157, 12 and 90 million, it is quite a difference when you now charge these 2 billion this year, which was done at an ordinary meeting and at an extra dividend that the government decided at the end of the year when you needed more money. What I am expressing is a concern that the government will start using our state-owned companies as cashiers or budget regulators. I would warn against using the state companies in this way, because in the cases that the state has decided to have a number of different companies, it is because it considers them to be a function. In SJ's case, we can state that the company is a dominant player. If we want a journey in the future on our new high-speed tracks, it is ultimately SJ that will carry a large part of this, and then you have great investment needs ahead. I do not want to suggest that the government has completely evil intentions, but I am concerned that companies that really need this money for their own investments will be sold out in the future. We have a worn-out facility. It's not all about spending more money on maintenance, it's also about being able to make sure that we have good vehicles, good trains, on our tracks, or else they're working at the facility. It does old trains namely, and SJ has a vehicle fleet that needs to be updated. I can only send to the Minister for Economic Affairs that I feel that concern. I hope that it will not be planned to use SJ in the future in such a way that you make larger dividends when you need more money. The focus must be on the investment needs of SJ.
i-8eafe31059d48331-488	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jessica Rosencrantz, for those final words! I think we should be careful with our state-owned companies. They are important, and the most important thing for me as owner minister is to ensure that we care for these companies so that they build long-term value and that they are economically strong in the long term. Part of such a process is that we have a proper review of the financial targets for each company and that we follow up the economic targets so that the companies can reach them. Another part is that economic objectives are based on the investment plans that the company has. It is true that SJ is facing new investments, and they will do so in the next few years. However, I do not think it is possible to skip the point that public investment in the rail system will also be required at a completely different level than before, because all train operators are currently suffering from a lack of maintenance, which means that SJ AB will also have major problems in being able to time and cope with the transport that is important for the citizens. From the government's side, we have made it clear in a clear way that we are prepared also to give financial priority to investments in rail maintenance in order to benefit the railways in the long term. My absolute meaning with SJ AB is that the company should stand strong in the future and build values long-term, for SJ is an important player for a more climate-smart but also better travel in Sweden.
i-8eafe31059d48331-491	Madam President, I would like Maria Stockhaus has asked me about an interview in Aftonbladet how the idea that pupils without school background regardless of age should be placed in primary school should work in practice. Let me first make it clear that this is not the idea. In the interview, however, I wanted to highlight the fact that it is important that a student's age is not the sole basis for deciding in which grade the student should be placed in. Students who start education later than when schooling in Sweden normally starts may lack previous schooling or have an educational background with major shortcomings. It is therefore not always appropriate to allow these students to start their education in a year corresponding to their age. The decision on the year in which a student is to be placed shall, from 1 January 2016, be preceded by an individual examination. In order to enable each student's knowledge to be assessed, so that the teaching can be adapted to each individual's unique needs, it is therefore mandatory for municipalities to map each student's knowledge. If the assessment of the student's knowledge shows that the student's needs could be better met in any other year than the student's age justifies, there is reason to allow him or her to start there. In the government's view, however, it is not only the student's level of knowledge that should be crucial for the placement. It is above all time spent in school that is important to achieve the knowledge goals and not the grade in which the student is placed. The opportunities for integration and contacts with peers should also be taken into account. Based on mapping and other factors, the Vice-Chancellor decides on year placement. This is also stated in the Government proposal Education for newly arrived pupils – reception and schooling( 2014/ 15:45).
i-8eafe31059d48331-494	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Government very much for its answer. Many immigrants and refugees are coming to Sweden right now, and that affects all parts of society. Not least at school, it poses great challenges to meet everyone who comes. It is about providing physical places, but also about how to map students' knowledge and ensure that they get the right support when they start school in Sweden. In the sensitive situation that Sweden's municipalities find themselves in, it is important that both municipalities and other principals feel that they are receiving support to deal with this situation. The migration agreement between the government and the alliance parties contains some measures to facilitate the reception of newly arrived students, but much more will be needed. When a minister speaks on matters, it has consequences, as in this case. Municipalities, schools and parents have started to think about what this means in practice. The statement that newly arrived pupils without school background should be placed in primary school was in my ears unfortunate. Many in the world of school and even parents were worried about how it would work in practical terms. Early - school parents wondered what the children's school situation would be like if newly arrived teenagers were to join their children. In the answer, the Minister for Education clarifies that it is not the intention for newly arrived teenagers to be physically placed in primary school classes, which I welcome. Mapping the skills of newly arrived students on different subjects and ensuring that they receive the support they need from the knowledge base they have with them is a completely different matter. I think that both I and the Minister for Education agree on that.
i-8eafe31059d48331-499	Madam President, I would like Then I would like to thank you for the interpellation, which gave me the opportunity to clarify the statement and regret whether it has raised the concerns described by Maria Stockhaus. The background to my answer to the questions was that Vellinge Municipality was named the school municipality of the year. I stressed at the time that I was hoping that Mr Vellinge, with her good schools, would be able to take on a great responsibility for receiving newly arrived students. I wanted to show that we have new legislation in place and that the legislation – which comes into force on 1 January – means that a survey should be carried out. It also makes it clear that age must not be the sole factor in which a child should be placed. I hope that the discussions that are being held in different parties will lead to this being something that one has with them in the many years' placements that we see before us with the large number of new arrivals coming to Sweden. We can read from the statistics that we are increasingly able to handle the task of offering a good school for those who start before the sixth grade. Many of these students today leave school with grades sufficient to enter high school. For those who arrive later, the trend is the opposite. More and more of them are not eligible for high school. They have not gone to school for many years, and then they are required to do in just a few years what Swedish-born children have nine ten years to pass. That is, of course, unreasonable.
i-8eafe31059d48331-502	Madam President, I would like I think it is good that the government agrees with the Alliance on a mandatory survey of newly arrived students' knowledge. It will probably give many students better opportunities when they start in Swedish school. We often talk about having confidence in the profession. We Moderates want to show that we trust principals and teachers. After the survey, it is they who have the best skills to find solutions for newly arrived students. These pupils need individualised teaching, and different solutions must be found depending on the pupils' conditions and also on the conditions of the school and the municipalities. If the Minister for Education shares the view of the Moderates that trust in the profession is important, it is urgent to signal it outwards, even when talking to the media. Unfortunately, speaking about how students should be taken care of after the survey is a clear signal – at least I think – that you don't trust the profession and that you think it should be steered centrally how these students should be taken care of. It is extremely important that the signalling system shows that, in the difficult situation that we find ourselves in, it provides the tools that are needed – the next interpellation debate will also be about. But we need to have confidence that after the survey, the profession can find the best solution for both the school and the students.
i-8eafe31059d48331-506	Madam President, I would like I agree with what Maria Stockhaus has put forward. We need to show confidence that the mapping mission and the year placement will be completed after the survey. Then there is the need to have a discussion on some of the reasons why we managed to reach agreement on this legislation, which involves a mandatory mapping exercise. This test has not always been done in school in the past. There have been jubilee placements that have basically only been based on the age of the children. It is quite clear that it is an unreasonable requirement for children who have no educational background or who have lived for several years in refugee camps to be able to complete primary school and obtain a qualification of one or two years. It is therefore necessary to have clearer legislation – we agree – where the age of the child should be balanced against the child's pre-knowledge, the number of school years and the level of education at which the student is located. Madam President, I would like Finally, it is also important to point out that this is often discussed from this perspective. But it also happens that children come to Sweden from countries where they have a high level of knowledge than some of the Swedish peers, not least in math and scientific subjects. That is one of the reasons why we also see the need to have this kind of mapping legislation.
i-8eafe31059d48331-510	Madam President, I would like I believe that we all have the ambition to improve the conditions for new arrivals to pass Swedish school and to – as the Minister of Education was at – also take advantage of the students who come here with very good school knowledge, which also occurs. Perhaps you should have English-language teaching for those students who speak English. There are many different solutions. What I wanted to highlight with my interpellation was the signal system that you send out when you talk to the media and what consequences it has in the operations. It can cause unnecessary concern, and it also signals a lack of confidence that the profession itself is capable of dealing with the issue. Then you can problematise and discuss this, but it is probably dangerous if we start dictating from the political level what the solutions should look like in schools. I believe that the profession is in a much better position to decide than we, as politicians, are.
i-8eafe31059d48331-513	Madam President, I would like I agree.
i-8eafe31059d48331-514	Madam President, I would like Now we are continuing with another interpellation from Maria Stockhaus, and we will take care of each other and thank each other when this interpellation debate is concluded. Maria Stockhaus has asked me when I intend to set up the investigation into remote teaching on a subcontracted basis, which the Parliament announced as its opinion that it should be set up. According to the Riksdag's decision on the bill Opportunities for remote learning were introduced on 1 July 2015 a definition of remote education in the School Act. In accordance with the bill, the Government has decided, through the provisions of the School Ordinance and the High School Ordinance, that a school principal may, under certain conditions, use remote teaching, sometimes other mother tongues, study guidance in the mother tongue and modern languages. The Government has also decided on a pilot project with the possibility of remote learning on more subjects. Today's regulations mean that if there is no certified and qualified teacher in a school unit, remote teaching can be carried out by a teacher who is present in another school unit within the principal's organisation. The provisions improve the ability of school leaders to organise mother tongue teaching and study guidance in their mother tongue for all pupils in need. The teachers within the principal's organization can be used more effectively, for example, by allowing a teacher to teach students who are geographically far away from the teacher or are scattered across different school units. However, the government and the bourgeois opposition agree to review the conditions for increased opportunities for mother tongue teaching, study guidance in mother tongue and remote teaching on a subcontracted basis and to carry out a broader review of the construction regulations in Chapter 23. The school law. The current refugee crisis now raises even more the question of how school leaders can be given good opportunities to offer native language teaching and study guidance to newly arrived pupils in their mother tongue. Since the Riksdag made its announcement, the need for native speakers and study guidance in the native language has increased further. It is therefore the Government's intention to have questions addressed quickly regarding, among other things, increased opportunities for mother tongue teaching, study guidance in mother tongue and remote teaching contracted. The government is working to ensure that new legislation can enter into force next year.
i-8eafe31059d48331-518	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister very much for his answer. New technologies offer new opportunities, not least in the world of school. Access to IT in schools is getting better and better, and with it there are challenges and opportunities – opportunities that we need to take advantage of if we are to ensure that all students in Sweden receive an equal education of high quality. The opportunities for distance learning and long-distance learning are two examples of innovations brought about by technology in the field of education. At the end of autumn, I and the Minister for Education met in this Chamber in another interpellation debate. After that debate, I raised the issue of construction in remote education, to which I was brought to my attention during a visit to Ådalsskolan in Kramfors. This was before the bill for remote education came to Parliament. Before it came, I know that also SKL courted the Minister on this issue to pay attention to the problem of remote teaching and the fact that there are creative principals who put students' right to education before the prohibition of construction and who are currently breaking the law to ensure that students receive the education they are entitled to. For example, Ådalsskolan received criticism from the Swedish School Inspectorate as late as June last year regarding the issue of remote teaching on a contract basis. When the bill then landed at Parliament's table, the government had not taken into account the problems surrounding the prohibition of construction in general and how it affects remote teaching and the possibilities to offer, for example, native language education in all parts of the country. Thanks to the Alliance's members on the committee, the report was supplemented by an announcement, which was also adopted by the Parliament, calling on the government to set up an investigation into the issue of contracts for remote education. Decisions were taken in Parliament on 19 March last spring, i.e. almost eight months ago. Since then, nothing has happened until now. Only when the School Inspectorate and the media start drawing attention to the issue again are things starting to happen. The school in Sweden, as I said in the previous interpellation debate, faces enormous challenges when it comes to passing schooling for newly arrived students and young people who come to Sweden. Making full use of technology is a way to make it easier for schools and school leaders, for example, to offer mother tongues and study guidance to all pupils, regardless of their mother tongue. The teaching skills needed in, for example, native languages do not always exist within the municipality itself, and without a change in the law on the entrepreneurial issue, the possibility for municipalities to offer pupils native language instruction and study guidance is limited within the law. I know that you will deal with the issue of the investigation of remote education on a subcontract basis at the government meeting tomorrow. It's always something, even if it's too little and too late.
i-8eafe31059d48331-524	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the interpellation. Let me give a possibly adjusted picture of the history of this matter. One of the first proposals that I put forward – I also talked to Maria Stockhaus about it before it was presented – was about the possibilities for remote learning and about, based on the legislation that was then in place, expanding the possibilities. We had drawn attention to the matter earlier and been brought to the attention of it, but unfortunately we were able to note that there were no preparatory documents to amend the construction regulations. The investigation that had formed the basis for the proposal we could put forward did not therefore have any proposal that would allow us to change the construction regulations. I suppose that has its background too. Although I and Maria Stockhaus have had discussions on this – during this term of office and to some extent during the previous term of office, when Maria Stockhaus was chairman of the SKL training committee – this does not mean that there has been a consistent consensus between the entire Alliance, the previous government and the previous opposition to remote education. There was some scepticism about the use of remote teaching in the former management of the Ministry of Education, which coloured the directives for the investigation that was set up. It also meant – we should be completely clear about this – that I was not convinced of how the bill would land in Parliament. The bill opened up for more permitted remote teaching than before, and I was then very pleased that the criticism we received from the bourgeois opposition directed against us not going further. Criticism led to a parliamentary announcement, just as Maria Stockhaus describes. In the months since the announcement of Parliament, we have tried these questions to see how we can make the necessary changes as quickly as possible. The Parliament's announcement spoke of a pilot project with the possibility of using construction for remote teaching. The government is not in a position to initiate an experimental activity that is contrary to the law. We tried the question of what possibilities existed but found that a change of law was needed. We have also seen some other difficulties. We must not end up in a situation where we open up a market in such a way that it becomes even more difficult to attract native speakers or study supervisors to permanent positions. What we are mainly talking about here are principals who help each other. Nor do we want a construction procedure in which municipalities – this is well known to Maria Stockhaus – are stuck in long service contracts, but we want to be able to help each other smoothly when a need arises. In the light of these considerations, we have come to the conclusion that the easiest thing to do is to have an investigation put forward a proposal that will allow us to amend the law as early as next year. Long-distance teaching is already under way, partly within the framework of the law with teachers who are present with the principals and teachers who are contracted per hour and thus employed by the principals, which is quite possible also within the framework of the current law, and partly in the way described by Maria Stockhaus. The school inspectorate has made it clear that it is awaiting the amendment announced by the government before taking any action there. So this is also possible for the principals to do.
i-8eafe31059d48331-530	Madam President, I would like Prior to the commissioning of the investigation, remote education was a completely unregulated area. In addition, a great deal has happened during the journey in terms of IT use and access to IT at school. The Government notes that the basis for the preparation was not sufficient, but it had already been possible to set up an investigation to look at this issue without having to wait for Parliament's decision and without waiting another eight months, as is the case now. Although, of course, there is no need to encourage violations of the law, I understand the principals who are trying to find creative solutions for their students to be entitled to the education they need. What's boring, or how to say it now, is that it's probably not with all the principals. It is therefore important to open up opportunities for contracts in the field of remote teaching as soon as possible. I wonder how many students could have been offered native language education and study guidance if the government had acted a little faster than they have done so far. The fact that students and teachers are physically in the same place is, of course, the best thing from a teaching point of view. However, where this is not possible, it is better for schools to be able to make the most of modern technologies to ensure pupils' right to education by qualified teachers. I have taken note of the proposal for a directive for the so-called rapid investigation of remote teaching on a subcontracted basis. It gives rise to some question marks. This is the small word that exists in a few places and should, in my opinion, be changed to how. If we are now making major investments in IT in school – which is likely to happen to a greater extent in the future, given that we agree to develop a strategy for the digitalization of the school – it is important that we focus on discussing how schools and principals should use the technology for the benefit of students, not whether they should use it. What I am opposed to is that the proposals for directives state that the investigator should take a position on whether school leaders should be given increased opportunities to offer pupils teaching Swedish as a second language through remote teaching on a subcontracted basis. Today we have a situation with many newly arrived students who are in great need of teaching in Swedish as a second language. The Swedish National Agency for Education has signalled that it is a subject that has among the absolute lowest levels of qualification in Swedish schools. In grades 7 to 9, 35 per cent qualified teachers in Swedish are second language, in grades 4 to 6 only 25 per cent. In small municipalities there may not even be qualified teachers in Swedish as second language in all grades. There too, remote learning can offer a solution. Why should the investigator consider whether, instead of how remote teaching can be used in full, including construction also for Swedish as a second language? Investment in IT costs both time and money, and it is important not to limit the possibilities of using technology for the benefit of students. I am convinced that vice-chancellors and teachers who are given opportunities and are not limited will be able to find many creative ways to ensure that all students have the best opportunity to reach the goals in school, no matter where they come from and where they live.
i-8eafe31059d48331-536	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with the conclusion of Maria Stockhaus. We must get away from a situation where politicians are in and control the details and give greater trust in the profession and greater opportunity to meet the requirements that we are actually going to make. It is easy to note that the principals are currently using the opportunity available. I would like to point out that the school law is much broader than the provision we are now discussing. For example, it gives pupils who have this need the right to study guidance in their mother tongue as a support measure. It also gives pupils the right to receive native language education under certain conditions. That's what the principals base their decisions on. I also need to make a formal statement in this kind of discussion to correct the picture described. It is understandable that this should be done on the basis of the wording of the law. It is described as a violation of the law by the principals. We have a school law that is so built that it is the School Inspectorate who will test how different phenomena in the school world relate to the law. In some cases, the school inspectorate has left criticism but has not moved on from it. In this situation, the Swedish School Inspectorate has also clearly stated that it knows and sees that the government is about to propose a legislative amendment to the Riksdag. This means that at this stage we should not spread any concern among Swedish schools and principals who need to use remote teaching. There are opportunities with the new rules that exist today. This is the case, for example, if you hire a teacher who is employed by another principal most of his time. One can also use the type of cooperation and coordination that can take place, for example, within the framework of a municipal association. We are about to change the law to also enable remote education where principals help each other. Madam President, I would like I am fully confident that the investigative directives that the government will decide on mean that we will have the factual basis on the table that we need in time to meet the challenges we face from this point of view. Both Maria Stockhaus and I agree that this is not the only solution to the shortage of teachers. Nor is it the only solution to meet the lack of teachers in relation to the large number of newly arrived students we receive. We must also be better at using retired teachers and ensuring that teachers get the skills they need, as stated in the party agreement on this. At the moment, the Swedish National Agency for Education is building up a larger assignment for general competence for teachers and principals, for example, if there is such a need in Swedish as a second language. It is also a question of targeted action for those schools that need it most. Madam President, I would like Finally, my assessment is that it could not have gone faster. Anyone who knows about the Swedish legislative procedure knows that if you get a new law in place just over a year after a problem is noticed, it is a very quick change of law. It could have gone faster in a way. It had been that the previous government had decided from the outset that remote education should be used more extensively and put forward investigation directives that corresponded to it. But the political interest did not exist from the previous government. I am pleased that we are now united and that the line that Maria Stockhaus has been pursuing for a long time has also had an impact throughout the bourgeois alliance.
i-8eafe31059d48331-547	Madam President, I would like A quick investigation could have been carried out earlier on the problem. It is about a year ago that the problem was highlighted not least in the media. This was particularly true of Ådalsskolan in Kramfors, but there are also others who have had that problem. I don't think I'm getting a good answer to the question and how. One is a signal that one might not allow the possibility of using the technology. It worries me. When it comes to using the technology, Gustav Fridolin and I usually agree quite well. However, it is still an important signal value to start questioning whether to open up to this possibility at all. I can understand that the main track is always to have a teacher in place in the classroom. With the situation we have right now with a lack of teachers not only for students who are newly arrived but also for students who are born here in Sweden, we need to be creative when it comes to using new technology. In an investigation, we should not start to question whether to use the technique for Swedish as a second language, for example. I look forward to working on the digital strategy for the school and hope that there is not a lot about it that limits the creativity of teachers and principals when it comes to using the technology to support students. If you give them the opportunity and the tools and are careful to follow up on the quality, teachers and principals will be able to find very many good solutions themselves without us interfering in the details.
i-8eafe31059d48331-551	Madam President, I would like We share the view that remote learning is a small part of the solution to ensure that all students no matter where they live and regardless of their background receive the education they need. That is also why we have decided to start a pilot project with remote teaching on more subjects than the subjects we talked about when the matter was in Parliament. One of these subjects is of course Swedish as a second language. It is also covered in the framework of experimental activities. I am confident that the investigation that we set up will provide us with the preparation basis that we need to look, for example, at SKL's input and suggestions to open up wider when it comes to the subject of Swedish as a second language. I am convinced that on these issues Maria Stockhaus and the government are very close. I am also pleased that Maria Stockhaus has drawn attention to the decision we have taken now to develop an IT strategy. We do this not least on the basis of the work done within SKL and done within SKL during the time that Maria Stockhaus chaired the education committee.
i-8eafe31059d48331-554	Madam President, I would like Lena Asplund has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure equal care throughout the country and to end the problem of the expensive use of staffat doctors. It is important that healthcare can be provided on an equal footing according to needs. The Government has therefore proposed that the parliamentary target for health policy be changed to make it clear that healthcare should be equal and equal. Several of the issues that the government is pushing in the area of health care have equal care as a central aspect. Examples that I want to highlight here are cancer care, the care for those with mental illness and the management with knowledge. Work to close the irreversible health gaps is also important. The government therefore set up in the spring a Commission on Equal Health to come up with proposals on how this can be achieved. The Government also adds SEK 1 extra billion in 2016 and thereafter SEK 500 million per year to the county councils. These resources strengthen the county councils' ability to meet challenges such as skills provision and to make healthcare more equal. We know that the opportunities and challenges of medical development, among other things, can be difficult to master in all parts of the country. Landstingen has different conditions both geographically and demographically and resource-wise. This summer, the government set up the so-called Divisional Investigation. The investigation will propose a new division of counties and county councils, which means that Sweden is divided into considerably fewer counties and county councils. The division should, among other things, provide stable economic conditions in the newly formed county councils and better match the needs of citizens and their ability to exercise democratic influence. I see challenges in terms of healthcare skills provision, especially for the ability to attract and retain skilled employees. It is urgent that this development should be able to reverse. I am therefore holding talks with the stakeholders to raise opportunities and difficulties. I hope that this initiative and the proposed professional billion can support the work on skills provision and help to give healthcare professionals even better opportunities to carry out their work. The current trend with relay or hire physicians is in some places worrying. According to a new report from the Swedish Competition Authority on medical renters in primary care, the total cost of health care staffing in county councils has increased from SEK 2.86 billion in 2013 to SEK 3.43 billion in 2014. I intend to monitor developments in this area closely. I know that SKL also follows this and assists county councils in how to handle development. The issues are complex, and it is not certain which measures could be effective either at regional or national level.
i-8eafe31059d48331-563	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer, and I will start with my little thought. I have written the interpellation from a Västernorrland perspective because I come from there, but this can apply to almost all county councils or regions in the county. One can think about how health care can continue to be equal when the county councils' finances go on their knees. SKL published an economic report in October showing that the forecast for 2015 is 1 billion in deficit for our county councils. However, all but three county councils during the last five years have increased the tax, and that has not helped. There are many times problems – and now I take my county council as an example, because we will not have a county council debate – when you have come up with clean, hard structural proposals to close an inland hospital altogether. You peel everything out of emergency care, and it's basically just one health center left. It will hit the hinterland – in this case the two municipalities Kramfors and Skellefteå – extremely hard. It is important to have this closeness to trauma care and good care when talking about this golden hour, the important hour in which you get input. I think it was on Friday that a major traffic accident occurred outside Sollefteå. Fortunately, Sollefteå hospital was left so that the seven injured persons could be taken care of. You made it. One person was badly injured and had to be taken to Umeå. That always happens. But if we had not had Sollefteå hospital, the injured would have had to be taken to Sundsvall. Then we are talking about a route of somewhere between an hour and a quarter to an hour and twenty-five minutes. It is said that emergency medical care can be carried out in ambulances. Well, you can to some extent. But real trauma care can't be performed. Nor can the ambulances be manned with anesthesiologists and anesthesiologists all the time. The roads in Sweden's hinterland, in many places where structural measures are spoken of, are not of the E4 class. These are very difficult roads, and the whole thing is difficult to manage. It makes me worried when I look at forecasts ahead for county councils. Västernorrland County Council made a deficit of 223 million in 2014. There is a forecast this year, 2015, which is even higher. Until 2018, the deficit forecast is SEK 1.8 billion. This cannot continue. Somehow the state has to go in and set rules: What should you do, and what shouldn't you do? It is this that makes it a fairly uneven care depending on where you live. We can look at cancer care, which is very different in the country depending on where you live. It should not be that if you live in Västernorrland you have to wait much longer for care if you get breast cancer than you have to do in other counties. For me, it is important to be able to get a good care if you live up in Junsele or if you live in Täby. Then we can tell them that those who live in Junsele also pay a lot more in taxes – and then they get worse care. This is something that I think needs to be lifted. The government has to look at it, because I don't think the county councils can do this on their own right now. It looks like this. The county council of Norrlandsläns has huge problems. We also have other county councils that have these concerns, as I am sure the Government is well aware. That's why I felt that I didn't get a really good answer from the Government about how to do this. It is not possible to set up just one Commission. The Social Democrats are quite happy in Commissions, but I think it would be good to have action instead of a Commission.
i-8eafe31059d48331-572	Madam President, I would like I can start at that end. I thought I gave a fairly detailed answer, but I can, of course, develop it. In this context, it is worth doing this, not least in view of the development that Lena Asplund sketches: We are facing a large increase in the cost of Swedish healthcare as a result of an ageing population, as a result of new, fantastically effective treatments that are often expensive and as a result of technological developments that lead to the possibilities of curing and relieving are so much greater but thus also entail new costs. In this context, I think we need to look at health issues in a much broader perspective. That is what we are trying to address with the aim of closing the avoidable health gaps. We will also set up a Commission on Equal Health that will look not only at what reforms need to be made in traditional public health and health policies but also at how to build a perspective on all policy areas in order to close the health gaps. If you are going to discuss health care in particular, because that is what the debate is about, I think what we are doing now is important. For example, I am out meeting all county councils in order to discuss the health care conditions in each county council but also to hear what they expect from the state. I will visit Västernorrland within a few weeks. In these talks there are a number of points that are constantly recurring. First of all, it is precisely the supply of skills. We know it looks a little different, but it's a challenge across the country. Many times this is usually described as a pure deficiency. I'll defend myself against it. There's a flaw. It may be greater depending on where in the country you are, and it may be greater depending on the speciality we are talking about. But we cannot talk about a general shortage of nurses, and we cannot talk about a general shortage of doctors. Rather, what we should be talking about is how we use the time available to the profession. I often get this described to me when I visit the health care system: We know how to spend a lot of your time, not seeing patients, but in unnecessary administration. This brings me to the next issue that the government has clearly prioritised, namely eHealth. With better functioning eHealth work, with IT systems that can talk to each other and that will be able to transfer information and do things that we can only dream of today, we will be able to develop health care. We will be able to save time that can be spent on patient meetings, but we will also be able to have a more efficient business so that we use each tax chandelier more efficiently. I think that this development is good. It increases the efficiency of the healthcare system and puts the patient at the centre, while at the same time providing additional funding from the Government to the health care system. In total, for the next three years, there will be 2 billion in increased general government subsidies. I am convinced that with this we are well equipped to meet the challenges ahead. However, that will not be enough. We need to work together more, and we need to work together in new forms. We need to see how the division of county councils can be changed in order to get more sustainable organisations. We must be able to make the necessary structural decisions throughout the country and implement the necessary structural changes in order to meet the challenges of the future.
i-8eafe31059d48331-579	Madam President, I would like I think it's good that the Government should go around and meet the various county councils, talk to them and listen to what they have to say. I thought I'd jump back a little bit to this equal care thing. Let me give you an example. I can take that example, because it concerns myself. About a year and a half ago I had some kind of food allergy while eating. I had a hard time breathing, but it worked out. I went down to Parliament's most distinguished occupational health care. The doctor wrote a referral to our allergy and skin clinic at Sundsvall Hospital. I got an answer: we don't investigate food allergies. You can start thinking. Food allergy is still one of the few allergies you can die of. Fortunately, the former government introduced free choice of care within specialist care, so I received a referral and went to Sophiahemmet here in Stockholm. That's where I got medicine, and it worked out. I could do this, which is down here in Stockholm and has opportunities. But not everyone in every county council can do that when you get answers like this. Besides, you may not even know what to do when you receive such an answer. I would like an answer to this: how can it be equal care? I'm going back to the flaw. I agree that there is little shortage. There is, in particular, no shortage of doctors, because per capita we have many doctors in Sweden. But we have a cost that runs away, and this applies to rent doctors as stated in the report mentioned in the answer. There are also hire nurses. It is good that they exist because they are needed in many places where you do not get any others. But the problem arises when the costs run out and when you don't handle the staff properly. I have some interesting examples from my county council again. Narcotics nurses and others go out and say: That's why we quit. Nurses at the orthopedist say it's like getting a spittoon right in the face. They want 800 kr more a month, but the county council said no. The result of these mass redundancies is that there have been fewer operations, which does not make the situation any better but worse. This report from the Swedish Competition Authority, which also provides some advice and advice, talks about the establishment of health centres. It is noted that private health care centres that are owner-led and where the owners themselves work in the business are in much less need of rent doctors. I'm glad you've now backed up on LOV. I hope that you will also back off on profits in welfare, because this is really the only way we can get to grips with this. We see that private health centres are better off. This can probably also turn into county-owned and county-run. I don't really care much about the form of care. The important thing is that health centres are well managed and well run. The staff is supposed to be seen, and you shouldn't feel like you're getting a spit in the face. You should feel that you here do something important and good and are seen. That's what's so important. I therefore hope that there will be no ban on profits in welfare and so on without this being possible, because I believe that this is a solution.
i-8eafe31059d48331-591	Madam President, I would like I will start with the last part of the speech. As Lena Asplund so well knows, an investigation is ongoing to look at the organisation of welfare. It's no wonder. It is actually weirder that such a holistic approach has not been taken in the past. We have seen huge changes in welfare activities over the past 20 to 25 years. It has been experimented in many places. Here in Stockholm County Council, for example, they have knotted off operations at lower prices and so on. In view of the major changes that have taken place, we need to review how this sector actually works. What do we need to reform to make it work better and to ensure that patients are really put at the centre and that the tax money goes to the welfare that they are supposed to go to? That is the very background to this welfare inquiry. But it is not a question of excluding private alternatives. It is about how we should have the regulatory framework when private alternatives exist in this type of business. I will move on to the example that Lena Asplund mentioned, which concerned herself. As far as the issue of equal care is concerned, I can state, as I have done many times before, that we do not have equal care in Sweden. We have a clear desire for equal care. But we know that there are too many shortcomings. Among other things, this is behind the government's investment in cancer care and that it should be possible to bring cancer care together better in this country, both through better collaboration within the healthcare regions and by stimulating new methods and new ways of working in order to reduce waiting times and to ensure that we receive equal care throughout the country. I have great hopes that what is now happening in the area of cancer will improve the situation not only in the field of cancer care but will also give us good experiences and examples of what we can do in other parts of the healthcare system. I think that is very positive. As far as the supply of skills is concerned, as I said in my previous speech, it is one of the very biggest and most important challenges facing us. That is also why my first action as a minister was to meet all relevant actors in the field of healthcare to discuss competence issues. We have then followed this up, and we are establishing a more solid structure around these talks that we call the national collection for skills provision. This means that we meet relevant actors in the healthcare sector. It is about representatives from trade unions, SKL, the National Board of Health and Welfare, universities and higher education institutions, private health care providers and others in order to get a common picture of what the challenges are, but also to be able to go down and discuss what we need to do together to get to the skills issues. Last Thursday we had a very good meeting where I, together with Helene Hellmark Knutsson, participated and met representatives from trade unions, SKL, the National Board of Health and Welfare, universities and colleges and discussed what we can do together to improve collaboration between the higher education sector and county councils, what needs to be changed in the education itself and whether the state can contribute in different ways to creating better planning conditions for county councils. I would like to come back to the question of staffat doctors.
i-8eafe31059d48331-598	Madam President, I would like I also think it is very important that quality is ensured. It should be done whether it is a county council-run or a privately operated health centre or hospital. In the answer, the Government writes that this summer the Government appointed the so-called divisional investigation and believes that it will be able to solve something. I'm a little cynical. That is why I do not think you will get more money just because you draw these limits. You don't get richer for it. Two poor county councils don't get richer because you merge them. I heard Barbro Holmberg at home on the local radio a couple of weeks ago where she was very clear that you would not have any sacred county boundaries anymore without being able to move them and stick to the municipal borders and redo the old county councils. Therefore, I would like to make a contribution both to Barbro Holmberg and to all county politicians that it is important to take this into account now and not take major structural measures yet, before this breakdown study is completed. There can be a big difference between what it will look like after it. It would therefore be very unfortunate if some county councils chose to close down well-functioning hospitals which might then end up in another divisional region where there might be a need for them. Then you do as the military did before, but vice versa. They renovated a lot before they closed down operations. Then it may be that you put down hospitals and then suddenly stand there and need them. That's bad use of our tax money. I want the Government to take it with him when he goes out to the county councils, so that you think before this division inquiry comes.
i-8eafe31059d48331-603	Madam President, I would like I believe that a new division into larger county councils in Sweden should be seen as a way of creating better conditions to meet many of the challenges facing healthcare. Lena Asplund says that two poor county councils do not get richer by being merged. What I think you achieve by creating larger units is that you have easier to attract key skills, you get easier to work with a number of strategic issues and you get a larger organization that can more easily parry, for example, fluctuations in the economic cycle. There are just a few examples of profits that I think you can get with larger regions. Then it remains that even larger regions must have active work with quality in focus. They must actively focus on constantly being at the forefront and being able to compare themselves with other parts of the healthcare system, not only in Sweden but also in other countries. I am, of course, taking with me what Lena Asplund says about the importance of considering a new division now that structural changes are being discussed. I hope that all county councils will do this so that they do not paint themselves in a corner and risk standing with expensive investments that may still have to be remade in the future. I promised I'd come back and comment on the relay medicine. This is, of course, a major problem in many places. I share Lena Asplund's view that both rent doctor and rent nurse are needed in many ways, but not to the extent that we see in healthcare today. So far, I have made it clear that this issue, because it is so close to the issues of the agreement, should primarily be resolved by the social partners. However, I have also clearly signalled to the social partners that, of course, I am prepared to listen and also to act in cases where they discover or identify areas where only the state can contribute.
i-8eafe31059d48331-609	Madam President, I would like Cecilia Widegren has asked me what immediate concrete measures I intend to take to address shortcomings in the cleaning of health care and hygiene and what national strategies for increased patient safety the Government intends to introduce, and if so, when the intention is for them to enter into force. Cecilia Widegren has also asked me how I intend to further develop the Alliance Government's established patient safety law and what increased resources the Government intends to provide for increased supervision and follow-up in healthcare. According to the Patient Safety Act, the Landstingen and the carers are obliged to carry out systematic patient safety work, including the prevention of health injuries. Harmful care causes a great deal of suffering to the individual and high costs to society – suffering and costs that would have been partly avoidable if adequate measures had been taken by healthcare. It is of the utmost importance that work to reduce health injuries continues, and the work of county councils and regions is crucial to the outcome. The most important work is done at local level where care is provided. Good care hygiene is central to patient safety. Cleaning is an important part of healthcare hygiene. The National Board of Health and Welfare has issued regulations on basic hygiene in health care and more. The Swedish Association for Care Hygiene has published guidelines and recommendations for cleaning and healthcare professionals. It is a comprehensive set of facts regarding the means, methods and frequency of cleaning in health care premises. As early as the patient safety initiative started in 2011, it was clear from the government at the time that the results of the initiative would need to be taken into account within the framework of regular structures after the end of the initiative. Whether in the previous government's budget bill for 2014 or the alliance parties' budget motion in autumn 2014, there was a proposal to extend the patient safety initiative. Patient safety is today a priority for the government and the relevant authorities. The government is currently working on a number of initiatives with bearing on patient safety. The state also increases the county council's ability to improve health care, including patient safety work, through the proposed investment of SEK 1 billion extra in 2016, followed by an increase of the general state grant by SEK 500 million annually from 2017. In its report on the review of the patient safety area from June 2015, the Swedish National Audit Office estimates that the Patient Safety Act provides a good basis for promoting a high level of patient safety. No need for changes to the Patient Safety Act is reported in the Swedish National Audit Office's report. On the other hand, the Swedish National Audit Office considers that the county councils are unable to fully meet the objectives and requirements of the Patient Safety Act and that the state has not provided the healthcare providers with sufficient conditions to promote a high level of patient safety. The Government will respond to the Swedish National Audit Office's comments in a letter to the Riksdag. The National Board of Health and Welfare has a responsibility for patient safety issues within the framework of its instruction and has also continued to monitor and analyse patient safety developments during 2015. The agency is currently working on developing definitions of certain key concepts and has planned the work on how to apply the law to patients' participation in patient safety work. The Government also allocates funds to Sweden's municipalities and county councils in 2015 to continue its work to support healthcare in the patient safety work. In order to create more efficient and robust supervision in healthcare, social services and more, the Health and Social Services Inspection, IVO, was established on 1 June 2013. Previously, the National Board of Health and Welfare was responsible for supervision. In order to strengthen supervision, the Government has allocated additional funds to the activities. For 2014, SEK 175 million was added, and for 2015 SEK 150 million was added. According to the instructions, IVO has the task of planning and implementing supervision based on its own risks. The government sees no reason today to change the governance of their activities. In addition, the Government has appointed the Complaints Investigation tasked with providing suggestions on how the handling of complaints against healthcare can be more effective. The investigation has submitted an interim report, which proposes a changed system for handling complaints. The investigation's proposal aims, among other things, to create better conditions for IVO to conduct supervision. Final consideration to be reported by 31 December 2015 at the latest.
i-8eafe31059d48331-618	Madam President, I would like Weaknesses in the cleaning of health care and care services can, in the worst case, be associated with direct life risk, as well as long waiting times to undergo vital treatment. That is totally unacceptable. The professional handling of cleaning and personal hygiene in care is therefore literally vital. It is established that careful care hygiene and high quality cleaning reduce the risk of damage to health in the form of care-related infections, which currently account for 40% of the damage to the care. The responsibility of healthcare providers and the state for the safety of patients in health care is regulated by the Patient Safety Act, which the Alliance Government brought into force in 2011. The purpose of the Act was to promote a high level of patient safety in healthcare. The Patient Safety Act is Sweden's first comprehensive legislation in this area and was absolutely necessary. It also clarifies the tasks and responsibilities of the state in a completely different way than before. There should be order in the care. Healthcare should be provided as needed, with high quality and at the right time, regardless of where in the country you live. It is quality that should be promoted, and patient safety is a very important part of this. Madam President, I would like Now that health care hygiene and cleaning in the care system is lacking, it is problematic in several ways. That is why what the newspaper Expressen, for example, has shown during the month of October – deficiencies in hospitals and health care establishments across Sweden – are incredibly serious. This is not how it should be done in health care. Slare and shortcomings in personal hygiene are associated with life danger. Despite improvements since the alliance government's 2011 legislation, approximately 700 people continue to die every year as a result of avoidable health injuries. As late as 2008, that figure was 3,000 patients. Sweden's Municipalities and County Council estimates that the cost of healthcare injuries, in addition to all human suffering, is SEK 7 – 8 billion per year. This is counted in extra day care but also in other socio-economic costs, such as longer sick leave. This is an unreasonable development. The Moderates are self-critical. We introduced hugely sensible legislation, but now the next step must be taken. More needs to be done, because this is not how it works. When you are fragile, vulnerable and ill and come to health care, you should get help; you should not be met with dirt or filth. I would therefore like to say to the responsible Minister that I think it is high time that the left-wing government also took patient safety very seriously. We have put a number of concrete proposals on the table of the Riksdag, and the Riksdag now has to take a position on them. All parties have to relate to them. However, I would like to continue to put my specific questions to Minister Wikström. Does the Government intend to take any immediate concrete action in view of what has been revealed and the shortcomings we continue to see exist? Is the Government considering national strategies to develop patient safety work and take a holistic approach that complies with health legislation? It is very clear both in terms of quality and patient safety. How does the Government intend to further develop existing legislation?
i-8eafe31059d48331-625	Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to thank Cecilia Widegren for having put this interpellation. As has been said by me and Cecilia Widegren, this is an extremely urgent issue. It is important that it is also debated at national level so that we can turn each stone around and see what more we can do to improve patient safety. As far as I am concerned, the next step is to take on board the criticism that the Swedish National Audit Office has had and which is about how we can get the law that is now in place to be applied in practice as well. How can we ensure that there is active and systematic patient safety work, many times with hygiene and cleaning in focus? It is about reducing the number of health injuries and, of course, improving the safety of health care, both for patients and for the profession. Therefore, an investigation is currently under way which is currently reviewing the complaint management system. It may seem surprising– what does this have to do with the possibility of improving hygiene practices? Well, it's like this: The government's tools for supervising health care are the Inspection of Health Care. Today, this authority has a great many complaints on its table, which means that you have to spend a lot of time on complaints that others have initiated. However, it does not have as much time for self-initiated supervision, i.e. to go out and carry out inspections – but also to have the necessary feedback to the business that is so important for systematic patient safety work. With the new routine and complaint management, where you can work more efficiently, you can both free up resources and of course find new procedures for handling complaints differently. This frees up time for more self-initiated supervision that leads to improvements in the systematics of patient safety work. I think that's a very important part. Another part that is often highlighted in the debate on why laws and regulations are not sufficiently complied with in healthcare is often the lack of time or staff shortages that may exist in some areas of healthcare. To meet just this, the government is working together with relevant actors in the healthcare sector, where we look at what we can do together to improve the supply of skills and use the time of the professions in a smarter way. But we also add more funds to the budget that we have put on Parliament's table. Over the next three years it is a total of 2 billion in general government grant increases that I believe will lead to better financial conditions for county councils to work systematically on issues that not least concern patient safety work. I can only note that the general increases in state subsidies proposed by the government are not included in the moderate budget, which I find very sad.
i-8eafe31059d48331-631	Madam President, I would like It is a situation where it is serious and dangerous to settle down and feel satisfied. I don't think we can afford poorly cleaned hospitals or health facilities anymore. It is directly linked to the danger of life and human suffering. The money, 7 – 8 billion, could be used much better to strengthen the quality of healthcare. The damage to property today is almost two full jumbo jets each year that do not land well. That is not acceptable. Patient safety legislation is commended by the Government, and this is to be welcomed, because it makes it clear that measures, procedures and systematics need to be taken. In March each year comes a story about patient safety. But when you see the development, that there are still two jumbo jet planes full of patients who do not land as they should, you may have to take more increased initiatives, and that is a little bit what I am asking for. The government listed a number of proposals and investigations set up by the alliance government, and that is good enough. However, the reason for this interpellation debate is the question of whether the Government is prepared to do more to take the situation that continues seriously. Hence my question as to whether the Government intends to take immediate concrete action. We have presented to the Riksdag a proposal for a general permit requirement for health care establishments. Will the Social Democrats be willing to do so? We have presented a proposal to withdraw permits when you do not comply with Swedish legislation, such as patient safety legislation. Would stronger sanctions be something that the Government might be interested in looking at as a concrete measure? Or can the Government even consider whether it should be educational requirements for the cleaning services that we have in our health care facilities, such as courses in microbiology, to increase knowledge? There are a number of concrete measures, and the Riksdag will deal with them during the year. But my question is what the government will do in the meantime to bring about a number of important elements to get the systematics and routines in place. Legislation is a part, but the political leadership is what I am asking for. Where is the political leadership of the left-wing government and Minister Gabriel Wikström to bring about these changes? I don't think words are enough. Nor do I think that you can fool the health workers by saying that there will be a few crowns in extra state subsidies to the hundreds of billions that we are already spending on Swedish health care today. Ultimately, it's about doing a little more right from the start – knowledge that today the health care employees often have. But where is the systematics to get it in place? Does the Government intend to return to Parliament with concrete measures in this regard? I mentioned a number of them. The Government is also given the opportunity to answer whether the Social Democrats will support the proposals already on the table for strengthening patient safety.
i-8eafe31059d48331-639	Madam President, I would like I not only reported the investigations that are under way and that I believe will provide a very valuable basis for improving the systematic and routines of patient safety work. I also presented the initiatives that the government is presenting in the budget for the following year, which will mean substantial additions to the healthcare system and improved financial conditions, not least in order to be able to carry out a good patient safety work. Cecilia Widegren says it is dangerous to settle down. I think that both in my interpellation response and in my last speech I showed that I definitely do not settle down, and neither does the government. But our attitude is slightly different from that of Cecilia Widegren and the Moderates on exactly what needs to be done right now. Like the Swedish National Audit Office, I do not think that it is primarily a legislative issue, that we need to make changes in the legislation that the Riksdag should take a position on. The most important thing I think is that Parliament takes a stand for more resources for health care and that we then thoroughly, as we do with the investigations that are under way, look at how we can get better functioning complaints management within the Inspection for Health and Care and thus release resources to the self-initiated supervision. If you ask for systematic work on patient safety, you can't just work with fire brigade suppressions. Cecilia Widegren seems to want the state here and now to go in and make extra efforts in health care. But then she has missed what is the point of both the review by the National Audit Office and other bodies, namely that it must be the local work that is at the centre. There must be responsibility in the business for these issues in order to be able to get a long-term improvement seriously, not least when it comes to cleaning and therefore also patient safety work. If the state is involved in fire brigade suppression, there is a risk that you will never get to the systematic work locally, that you will never feel local ownership. I believe that this would be a major problem for health care and would make it impossible to overcome the basic routines and the systematics that are so urgently needed. At the end of the day, I can't help but ask you a question. I have presented the government's policy here and how we intend to systematically work on this issue in order to improve the state's supervision and the knowledge returned to the activities. I have also reported the increase in general government contributions that the government has in its budget. But I still have not received an answer to the question: Why do the Moderates say no to increased general state grants to county councils? Do you not see that county councils need more financial resources to fulfil their important mission, not least in terms of patient safety work and not least in terms of cleaning our hospitals?
i-8eafe31059d48331-645	Madam President, I would like I call for concrete action from the Government, and the Government reads out a number that the Alliance Government has presented and also launched. However, the Government has not delivered any concrete proposals to Parliament during this year. I've looked at the bill list, and it's very empty. There is nothing there to say that there will be any reinforcements linked to patient safety. Sweden's municipalities and county councils show that these care injuries provide 1.5 million extra day care per year. That's not good enough. It is about 7 – 8 billion that could be better used in Swedish healthcare. It is much more than the additional resources that the Government says should be sufficient for increased health care salaries, better skills provision, increased patient safety, healthcare lift and all the wishes that the Government has. But this gives less human suffering and even more resources to Swedish health care. There is a list of comprehensive legislation, set up by the Alliance Government, missions and investigations, set up by the Alliance Government, and increased resources set up by the Alliance Government. It also mentions the tax increases that are now taking place, not least on the work of young people, as a means of improving the hygiene of our hospitals and health care facilities. No, Madam President, these are concrete measures that are needed. I have not received an answer to what you think about withdrawing permits, about sharper sanctions and training requirements. Take some of these concrete proposals! Act and make suggestions so that it does not just become words! It'll just be easy if you don't. Let us see again in six months' time here in the Swedish Parliament to see what the Government has put forward for concrete proposals and measures. At least that is something concrete to come back to. It will be an evaluation of this discussion so that it becomes not only words but also reality.
i-8eafe31059d48331-650	Madam President, I would like Cecilia Widegren repeatedly points out that the Government has not made any proposals in the Riksdag on this work. But I have repeatedly tried to explain to Cecilia Widegren that not least the Swedish National Audit Office points out that it is not primarily legislative work and a decision in the Swedish Parliament that is needed to improve patient safety and cleaning in Swedish hospitals. What is needed is better application of the law. I have also reported three major measures that the government has taken or intends to take to give county councils better opportunities to apply the law. Firstly, we have the Complaint Investigation which will look at a better complaint management system for the Inspection for Health and Care. If it can be put in the lake, which I hope will lead to Ivo getting more resources to devote to the important self-monitoring work and thus also help us to get better application of the law. Secondly, we are having talks with the social partners and other actors in the health sector in order to improve the functioning of skills provision so that health care personnel have time to follow the hygiene practices that exist and to carry out systematic patient safety work. We get many reports from the reality that we do not always have time for this. That is, of course, terrible. Thirdly, we are providing additional funds. Over the next three years, it is a total of SEK 2 billion extra to health care in general government grant increases. My question remains: how can Cecilia Widegren be upset that the government's money is not enough when she has allocated significantly less money to health care in her budget?
