ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u1	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On April 6, at the age of 63, a Member of the Civic Coalition Anna Wasilewska left us. She was born in Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie, but her whole adult life was connected with Olsztyn, who was the vice president, and with the Warmia-Mazury self-government in which she served, among others. Vice-Marshal of the voivodship. She was a Member of the Sejm VIII and IX of the term of office, Vice-President of the Committee on Petitions, and was involved in the work of the Committee on Culture and Media. As a parliamentarians, she was respected for her activity, substance and the pursuit of compromises. She was close to people. She was trying to help anyone who was looking for support from her. She was involved in education, the particularly difficult and beautiful - working with children with disabilities. She loved sports, she practiced sports regularly, and athletes always had a special place in her heart. Besides, like the people of culture she has often met in recent months, during a pandemic period, and has helped them to endure difficult times. She was sensitive, warm, always smiling, extremely liked and respected. A beautiful man - we will all miss him very much. Let's celebrate her memory with a moment of silence. [[A moment of silence]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u2	Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, March 31st this year. - I ask you to stand up - Izabella Sierakowska, Member of the Sejm X of the term of office and of the Sejm I, II, III, IV and VI of the term of office died. Let's celebrate her memory with a moment of silence. [[The assembled rise, a moment of silence]] Thank you very much. We are now entering into a quorum, ladies and gentlemen. Please press any button to confirm your presence at the meeting. You're welcome. 426 Members shall take part in the deliberations. I'm declaring a quorum. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors Convention, submitted a draft resolution on support and equal opportunities for people in the spectrum of autism, print No 1081. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Council of Ministers has submitted draft laws: - amending the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund and certain other laws, - amending the Act on certain forms of housing promotion and certain other laws. The designs are 1073 and 1070 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the first reading of these projects. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. Objection! I hear an objection. 1073. In view of the opposition raised to shorten the time limit referred to in Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, we will settle this matter in a vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of agreeing to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, in case of a draft law contained in print 1073, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 230 - for, 202 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm accepted the offer. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Law on the greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme and certain other laws, - amending the Act on Personal Evidence and certain other laws, - amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments and the Act on National Tax Administration, - amending the Law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems. The reports shall, respectively, be in prints 1061, 1069, 1037 and 1079. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these reports. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - on the amendment of the law on municipal self-government, the law on district self-government and the law on local government, and on the amendment of the law on municipal self-government and certain other laws, - on the amendment of the Law on the Charter of the Large Family, the Act on informationization of activities of entities carrying out public tasks and the Law on the care of children under the age of 3. The reports shall be printed in 1036 and 1057 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Law on specific arrangements for the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and crisis situations, - the protection of the rights of the purchaser of the residential or single-family premises and of the Developer Guarantee Fund, - amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws, - amending the Act on the National Debt Register and certain other laws, - amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes and certain other laws. The reports shall be printed in 1075, 1066, 1078, 1067 and 1077 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the draft law amending the law on proceedings against persons with mental disorders presenting a risk of life, health or sexual freedom of other persons, print No 1076. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights has submitted an opinion on the candidates for the Ombudsman, print No 1074. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with a point on the matter. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the agenda items. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention unanimously gave its opinion on the proposal to consider at this meeting information on the state of health care during the third wave of the pandemic, about which the Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition - PSL, the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives requested the presentation. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter is available in the Sejm Information System. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on support and equal opportunities for people in the spectrum of autism (Print No 1081). Welcome to the JiM Foundation gallery. Welcome, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The resolution of the Polish Sejm on support and equalisation of people in the spectrum of autism. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland, bearing in mind the needs of more than one million citizens - people in the spectrum of autism, their families and carers, recognizes that the state should create them decent living and working conditions. In order to make this possible, the Polish Parliament supports system solutions to create a comprehensive policy aimed at all these people. Taking into account the obligations arising from resolutions: Charter of the Rights of Persons with Autism and the Charter of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland considers it important to implement the strategy of eliminating mental, organisational and financial barriers by developing the current system of care for persons in the spectrum of autism, so as to implement their rights in all areas of life taking into account the level of their functioning. Each person in the spectrum of autism should be allowed to function as dignified and as independent as possible in adulthood, with particular regard to inclusive education, equal opportunities in the labour market and a modern care and support system. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland, stating that the above obligation stems from the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Standard Rules of Equalisation of the Opportunities of Persons with Disabilities and other acts of international and internal law, supports all actions aimed at developing the strategy. Please allow us to adopt this resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u3	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to inform you that the following Commission meetings will be held today: - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13, - Economy and Development - h.m. 13, - Infrastructure - hour 13, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 16, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 17, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 5:15 p.m., - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 19, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 20. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u4	Thank you. I am now addressing Mr Braun. Mr Sejm, I am of the opinion that by failing to comply with the order of the Marshal of the Sejm on special order arrangements for the sitting of the Sejm, you are in violation of order. Mr President, I ask you to put on a mask, possibly to leave the room. We have other rooms, you have the opportunity to participate remotely in the Sejm meeting. Don't put other people's health and lives at risk unless you're afraid for yourself. Please bear in mind all your colleagues who are present in the plenary room. Mr... I call on the marshal to comply with the law. [[Applause]] Bravo! ...on the basis of Article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I call you to order. I call on the marshal to comply with the law. [[Applause]] Put your mask on, please. Put your mask on, please. I call for compliance with the law in force in the Republic of Poland. Mr President, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 4 - remind you that this is a financial penalty - the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm... You're Catholic. You shouldn't put others at risk. ...I'm calling you in order, and I'm saying you're preventing your deliberations from being held. [[Applause]] I call for an in-depth review of the legal situation which is in force in the Republic of Poland. Mr President, because you are still preventing the deliberations from taking place, on the basis of Article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: Five, I'm making a decision to exclude you from the Sejm. [[Applause]] Bravo! In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, leave the sitting room. It's a provocation. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on amending the Law on Motorways... A little respect. Your Marshal... I'm sorry. I'm sorry. You're right. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Mr Boris Budka, Civic Coalition. One minute, sir. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u5	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I move that the session be adjourned by noon. 12, convene the Senior Convention and include urgent government information on the implementation of the vaccination programme on the agenda. Today there is no more important issue in Poland than vaccination of Poles and Poles. Meanwhile, more than 2 million vaccines are still in storage. You don't want to vaccinate in places that are prepared for this. Local government officials in many places in Poland report readiness, they have prepared points. Meanwhile, Poland is in the tail of Europe as regards the number of vaccinations and the number of tests. At the same time, we are on the podium, on an ugly podium, when it comes to the number of deaths. A simple question to Prime Minister Morawiecki: Why do you play the health and life of Poles even on such an important issue? Marshal, this should never be politics. Self-governments are prepared to help the government. Meanwhile, the biggest obstacle to the vaccination of Poles is your government, because even distribution [[♪ The bell ♪]] You can't organize vaccines. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u6	Thank you very much, sir. Mr President, we get a lot of very detailed information on vaccines every day, but I will not call the Convention or the Bureau on this issue, because they have been devoted to it, Mr President. Since you have applied for an interruption, I will put this request to the vote. Your Marshal... But once again, I say that the convening of the Convention and the Bureau is my power and I will not call them. So... I'm applying, too. You're asking for a recess, too, aren't you? Well, that's the same conclusion. Good. There you go, we're voting. A formal request for adjournment has been submitted. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry, was there anyone against this? No. Who's against it? Who's holding back? But why? Who cares? 437 Members voted. 204 - for, 228 - against, 5 stopped. That was close. The Sejm's motion is denied. With a formal proposal from Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Lewis. One minute. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u7	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a formal request for adjournment until we hear the information of Prime Minister Morawiecki on the National Reconstruction Plan. On January 15, the Left Club requested that we be able to hear such information. Three months, no reaction. Tonight, during the vote, we are to decide whether or not we should really listen to the Prime Minister. Your Marshal, we should now change order and lead this vote to take place and we will listen to the Prime Minister's information, because the government has already debated the National Recovery Plan twice. The Left tabled a package of amendments to the National Reconstruction Plan. We wanted change. There are no answers. The PiS removes the fund law from the agenda of the Sejm. You're the most anti-European party. You don't want money from the European Union. You want to lead us to the waste of Poland's development opportunity. That's enough! [[Applause]] Stop yelling.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u8	Thank you, sir. You don't have to scream like that. Microphones collect well, really. As a motion for adjournment has been made, I will put it to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 203 - for, 236 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. Mr Janusz Kowalski with a formal proposal. Oh... There you go. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u9	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Solidarna Polska 7 months ago submitted a draft resolution on the Nord Stream 2. The idea is to call on the Federal Republic of Germany to stop this project with Vladimir Putin. We consistently make such proposals. The meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs did not reach a point on this matter yesterday. For this reason, we kindly ask the Marshal to include this item on the current agenda, so that this voice, important from the point of view not only of the Polish state, but also of energy solidarity in the European Union, finally sounds. The voice of the Polish Sejm is important for Ukraine, which today is experiencing huge problems in relations with Russia, but also for the administration of the United States, which consistently supports the blocking of this project. Thank you very kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u10	Thank you, sir. The matter is extremely important, but, if you'll excuse me, the Committee on Foreign Affairs is hosting this project. I don't have a report. What was the formal conclusion? I cannot therefore take this into account in the order of this meeting. Here you go, Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u11	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am applying formally for the adjournment of the session until 15 April until 3 p.m. 9 and putting on the agenda the Prime Minister's explanation of why 1 000 were wasted on 11 April. vaccines. The national vaccination programme has become a national programme for pouring vaccines into the sink. Since December, these wasted doses have been almost 9,000. I understand we're wasting part of the dose because someone didn't volunteer and so on. But why 11%? From this sum, it flew into the sink one day? You spilled $1,000 in the sink on April 11th. vaccines. Why do you want to block the Sejm's deliberations because of this? We want... Exist. ...so that this can be explained. Poland 2050 submits this application. We're asking for his admission.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u12	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, this proposal should not be made at all, because we have already voted on the request for deferral. You know that very well. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on amending the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund and some other laws (print No 1073). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Ms Magdalena Rzeczkowska, to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u13	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Since 1 July 2020, the head of the National Tax Administration has taken over the task of collecting tolls and is carrying out work to implement a modern electronic toll collection system for heavy vehicles based on satellite positioning technology in Poland. This system will replace the currently used viaTOLL system. The bill submitted to the High House will form the basis for the creation of a uniform collection system for all road tolls. We aim primarily at the benefit of citizens: the proposed project will allow us to move away from the existing method of charging tolls based on motorway gates. Currently, the head of the KAS charges a toll on two sections of toll motorways: A2 - Konin - Stryków, A4 - Bielany Wrocławskie - Sośnica. It was on these episodes in the first place on 1 December this year. a new method for collecting tolls by highway will be raised and a new method for collecting tolls will be implemented. Such time limit shall be linked to the expiry of the existing gate service contracts. The extension of these agreements would require a multi-million-dollar expenditure on their modernisation, maintenance, replacement of equipment... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]] Excuse me, Minister. May I ask you to allow the Minister to speak? Excuse me, just a second. There you go. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Magdalena Rzeczkowska: Thank you. The project provides for two ways to pay for motorway travel: by purchasing a motorway ticket and based on geolocation data, as is the case with heavy vehicles. A freeway ticket will be available for purchase not only through modern online distribution channels, but also at fuel stations, in the kiosk. This will be convenient for people who do not use digital solutions. We don't forget people like that. The project does not require the storage, transmission of geolocation data or installation of applications, and I would like to emphasise that. It is on the citizens' side to choose the form of payment of the fee. If you buy a motorway ticket, the National Tax Administration will not know the driver's identity. The proposed rules also introduce the possibility of changing the method of charging on the concession sections of the A1, A2 and A4 motorways. The need to harmonise the toll collection system also on these sections was indicated by the Supreme Audit Chamber and the draft implements the recommendations of the Chamber. Such a change will be possible upon request, with the consent of the concession holders, without prejudice to the obligations of the State Treasury arising from agreements already concluded. Even if the concession holders do not decide to change the method of charging, the ticket solution increases interoperability, the convenience of citizens. Allowing entrepreneurs to distribute motorway tickets will allow them to use the same tools, e.g. mobile applications have been purchased a ticket on the state highway, but it is also about paying a fee on the concession section. The obligation to pay a toll on the motorway will rest on the owner, the owner, the vehicle user. Similarly to public transport tickets or parking charges, the non-payment of the fee will result in the imposition of an additional charge. The fee will not be charged if an electronic ticket for the unpaid journey is purchased within 3 days of the end of the journey. I would also stress that the proposed project provides for easier registration of carriers in the e-TOLL system. We reduce the scope of data that will be necessary for registration. Above all, we abolish the obligation to provide registration numbers for trailers and semi-trailers. The proposed rules will also allow part of the obligations related to the payment of road tolls by the fleet card provider. It's gonna be like this. registration or update of data. Similarly, as the distributor of motorway tickets, the fleet card provider will conclude a contract with the head of the KAS. This agreement will be open to any entity providing such services under uniform conditions. When building an e-TOLL system, the National Tax Administration engages entrepreneurs in order to provide convenient service to citizens. The provisions also provide for arrangements to maintain the integrity of the toll collection system by ensuring that the correct payment of tolls by all users is checked. These checks will be carried out by Customs officers, supplementing police officers and road transport inspection inspectors. The verification of the correct payment of tolls by toll sections of motorways will also be carried out on the basis of the data provided from the camera system installed on these sections. The benefits of the planned concept of highway tolling are primarily to reduce traffic congestion by not having to stop vehicles before gates in order to pay tolls, and to be open to interoperability at national level in cooperation with concession holders. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It will be possible to include a uniform toll collection system for motorways of concessions. This means that there is no need to bear the costs of expanding and maintaining toll stations and motorway gates, improving the comfort of drivers due to reduced travel times, introducing convenient methods of payment for toll motorways and facilitating for professional carriers. Thank you very much and I ask the High House to consider the bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u14	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would therefore like to ask the floor of Mr Jerzy Paul, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u15	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on Draft Print Act No. 1073. The adoption of the proposed law will primarily serve toll road users and will allow the elimination of gates at the beginning of the motorway sections: Konin - Stryków, this is the A2 motorway and Wrocław - Sośnica, the A4 motorway, from 1 December 2021. The movement will be able to proceed smoothly, without stopping before the so-called. grounded. The scope of the required data for registration in the e-TOLL system will be reduced. A single electronic toll collection system for heavy and light vehicles will be introduced. It also introduces the possibility to pay a toll for the motorway by purchasing an electronic motorway ticket or on the basis of geolocation data thanks to the free e-TOLL.pl application. The user of such a ticket will determine the beginning and end of the journey on toll motorway sections and the start of the journey. A one-time freeway ticket will be valid for 48 hours on a specific section of the highway. The toll detection record will be verified in the SPOE control system, i.e. the SPOE KAS, the National Tax Administration electronic toll collection system, and the ticket assigned to the vehicle will not be used again. The purchased ticket will be refundable before the declared date and time of departure. During the motorway journey, if you change your travel plan, you will be able to purchase an additional ticket, e.g. at the place of service to travellers or at the gas station. Providing vehicle users with such wide opportunities to purchase a motorway ticket, not only in modern online distribution channels, e.g. on websites, self-service terminals and mobile apps provided by external companies, but also in the form of a printed ticket purchased at a gas station or kiosk, it will ensure that people who do not benefit from digital solutions can pay the fee. Some of the benefits of the presented project: eliminating the congestion at the current toll collection points, avoiding the need for complex and costly integration of systems, SPE KAS with MSPO, i.e. the System for the Collection of Electronic Charges of National Tax Administration with manual toll collection system, reducing the high cost of maintenance of MSPO, introducing convenient payment methods and shortening travel times, reducing the cost of maintenance of the serviced MSPO infrastructure. The legislation currently under discussion by the High Sejm will make it easier for users of public roads and will at the same time be a source of savings both for users and for public finances. In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the bill in its entirety. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u16	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by the Member, Marshal Cezary Grabarczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At the very beginning, it must be stressed that the electronic toll collection system causes law and justice a lot of problems. The PO-PSL coalition has dealt with this problem in 3 years. The viaTOLL system has been implemented - a system that has already brought several billion zlotys to the National Road Fund for the development of motorways and expressways networks. Meanwhile, Law and Justice, knowing that in 2018 the first system contract was due, failed to deal with this problem. To this day, this problem has not really been solved. The system was first received by the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways and forwarded to the Road Transport Inspections. The Road Transport Inspection announced, canceled tender procedures. On the way, we had an accredited Communications Institute, which also failed to deal with this system. Finally, the Minister of Finance and the National Tax Administration acquire competence in charging tolls for motorways and express roads. This is paranoid. Why? As a result, in 2020 the Commission adopted Regulation - I do not have data for 2021 - revenues from the electronic toll collection system amounted to almost PLN 2 billion. And the whole tax system is supposed to distract for 2 billion, not focus it on the collection of VAT, CIT, PIT, excise duty, only to control those who use motorways and expressways. It's an exceptional waste of time. Is this the 2 billion revenue for the National Road Fund? No. The purpose of this law is very different. It's about creating a satellite-based driver espionage system. It's about creating a system of universal surveillance. I would like to quote a constitution, this is not a legal act liked by law and justice. The restrictions on the exercise of constitutional freedoms and rights can only be laid down in the Act and only if they are necessary in a democratic state for its security or public order, or for the protection of the environment, health and public morality, or for the freedom and rights of others. Such restrictions shall not affect the essence of freedom and rights, Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Constitutions. Have any of these conditions been met when introducing a total surveillance system for drivers using motorways and expressways? None. And now: Does a satellite geolocation system apply anywhere in the world to charge charges? The Staszica Institute states: There is no country where such a solution would be applied to passenger cars. Indeed, in the case of carriage of goods, such arrangements are applied. Therefore, the Civic Coalition, as a club that upholds the freedoms and rights of citizens, in particular those guaranteed in the Constitution, is in favour of rejecting this project, a project detrimental to the freedom of citizens, already at first reading. Detailedly at the committee meeting, where this request is not taken into account, [[♪ The bell ♪]] we will also make proposals for amendments. But once again, freedom must be defended. And when oppressive power wants to restrict that freedom, one must oppose it. I therefore request that the project be rejected at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u18	Thank you very much. The formal proposal was made by Mr Krystian Kamiński, near the Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u19	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to inform you of a conspiracy. Because is it a coincidence that a roof is leaking over the Confederate MPs and water is coming down on us? Can we formally request that we at least get umbrellas? After all, this is, really, an inappropriate situation. Time out, time out. I think it's a conspiracy against our circle. I really want the marshal to intervene right now. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u20	Mr President, I thought this proposal would be more serious. Of course, if the Confederate Members actually have rain on their heads... Wind in the eyes. ...then we will report this problem to the Sejm Chancellery. The position of the parliamentary club Left will be presented by Mr Wiesław Szczepański. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u21	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left, I have the honour to present to the High House a position on the government draft law on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund and on certain other laws. We are proceeding in an express pace over a law which, together with the justification, counts several dozen pages, a law in which there are no expert opinions. According to the reasons submitted, the Act aims to increase capacity and reduce congestion on toll motorways. It's about Konin - Stryków and Wrocław - Sośnica episodes. The gates will disappear and the highways will be grounded. The exhaust emissions will decrease. The new method of charging will operate within the KAS e-TOLL electronic toll collection system. It is intended to replace the existing viaTOLL system. The driver will need to register in the system, install and run the OBU - an external location system - and a free e-TOLL mobile application. It will also be possible to purchase a ticket on-line or in print form. The introduction of charges based on geolocation data using the application has the advantage that it does not cause delays. It also has a flaw: such a way of making payments does not seem to be used today on any section of motorways. According to the government, the advantages of the proposed solutions are: allowing for smooth highway rides, the lack of cost of maintaining infrastructure for charging, the release of people. There are also downsides: before entering the toll highway section you will need to run the application and it will not be allowed to turn off until you leave the road. If the app breaks down, it suspends, we're gonna have to head to the nearest exit. We will be able to continue the journey only after the payment of the fee has been completed, e.g. after you recharge your phone. It's about buying a one-time e-ticket. If the charge is carried out in a geolocation system and when driving on the motorway of the driver you will unload your phone and will not be able to charge it, there will be an additional penalty of 500 PLN, unless within 3 days you pay the toll. If a car uses several people in the family, each of them has to download an application. The integrity of the toll collection system will be controlled by the Customs-Scarb Service, the Road Transport Inspection and the Police. The project also offers the possibility of eliminating toll collection points and gates on concession sections. In this case, the concession holders will have to give up their own fees at their own request, which, of course, involves changing existing contracts. The point is to transfer the liability for the collection of fees to the KAS and receive compensation for the lost benefits. So you're gonna take over the tolling obligation and pay the concession holders to drive cars on their highways. The Road Transport Forum, which brings together dozens of economic organisations as regards transport companies, raises serious doubts about this law and how it will be implemented. In particular, it points to a lack of consultation. It also proposes that the system's assumptions be modified. The aim is to provide road users with unlimited access to the free on-board OBU device, which would be made available on bail by the system operator, as a basic form of payment of electronic tolls for the use of toll roads in Poland. The Forum also calls for a transitional period - from 6 to 12 months - during which road toll will be suspended from heavy goods vehicles and buses. This is the period from the switch-off of the viaTOLL system to be completed in June 2021 until it is fully prepared to start and test the e-TOLL system. This includes the admission to EETS and fleet cards systems. Other demands are: to modify the rules for imposing penalties for unpaid tolls in such a way that before they are imposed e-TOLL users are called upon to pay unpaid charges, to waive the planned annual increase in road charges by an inflation rate - this is not linked to the actual cost of maintaining and developing the road network - and to carry out in good time a reliable information campaign on the new e-TOLL toll collection system addressed to system users. The Act requires employers to equip their cars with equipment. The government doesn't care that they have to buy 0.5 million smartphones, 0.5 million devices. Drivers won't use their own phones to turn on the app. You gave me the app, and you're worried, man. I would like to ask: Who will produce such a large number of devices in such a short time? Who's gonna pay for it? You've wasted your time, and today you want to make up for it. You're eliminating one system, you're introducing another system, and you're trying to pass the bill on to road users. Why do you not want to equip entrepreneurs with these devices according to the directive? I will answer: because the ministry will not be held responsible for the fact that they do not operate and that entrepreneurs will be punished. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Plus, everyone with everyone's help and they'll be under surveillance everywhere. Mr. Marshal! My club will support the Platform's motion to reject the law at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u22	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives will be presented by Mr Stefan Krajewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u23	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL, UED, Conservatives towards the government bill amending the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund and some other laws, print no. 1073. The aim of the proposed legislation is to introduce a modern and efficient toll collection by motorway in a way that does not limit traffic capacity by eliminating barriers. This is intended to ensure a smooth, smooth journey without having to be stopped at the toll collection point. The main concerns about the proposed solution are the concern about its surveillance nature. While the solution allowing heavy transport to be tracked can still be explained by the fact that it is the desire of the state authorities to prevent VAT fraud, smuggling, other tax offences, this seems to be an excessive state control over the mobility of citizens in the case of car drivers. One of the fundamental rights in the European Union is the right to privacy, which no one should violate. The proposed project gives state authorities full control of the movement of citizens and the possibility of using this data for unknown purposes. Unfortunately, it cannot be said at the moment that the actions of the state authorities increase confidence in them, as we see, for example, with Pegasus system not in accordance with its intended purpose or with the criticism of the government's around-COVID application. [[Applause]] The data collected is excessive, which gives rise to suspicion that they will be used for other purposes in an unauthorized manner. At the same time, the government resigns from the recently announced by the Minister of Infrastructure of toll collection technology, which is deprived of all the above mentioned. drawbacks, but it is implemented by concession holders and well received, accepted by drivers. Of course, we are talking about videotolling and charging by reading license plates, combined with automatic debiting of the user's payment card stored in the application. Another concern is the financial situation, both from the calculation of the costs incurred or intended to be borne by the Treasury for the implementation, maintenance and management of the SPE KAS system, and from the costs incurred by the user and the financial aspects of cooperation with the service providers. High Izbo! There is also a problem with the management of this data, because we have seen many times that where you prepare, the government prepares such solutions, these data do not necessarily have to be safe. Now we're not sure that this data will only be downloaded when you travel through these pay sections, because if the application is properly installed on your phone, then this is it. Also information about our activity in general, in which hours we move, when we are at home, when we are at work, what way we walk. Here, too, we should consider why the government proposes only one solution. After all, there are other applications, there are possibilities to take a photo at the entrance and exit, here there is really no control of the entire traffic of vehicles. There is one solution to this, and it is being processed in such a short time, which also raises additional concerns. Because what is the reason why we have the first reading, the work in committee, the second reading? Everything's done on a cap-paw, and I don't think there's a need for that kind of acceleration here. When we discussed that the viaTOLLs would be replaced by a new solution, there were questions from this speaker about whether it would be extended to passenger cars, light cars. And the answer was that it didn't, that it only concerns transport, mostly those trucks. That's not what we hear today. We're hearing about toll highways. Perhaps in a moment the number of these episodes, if you no longer need to introduce a system solution, will significantly extend. The next question is when we will finally learn the truth, what are the assumptions (the bell) and why it is so quickly processed. Of course, as a club, we will make amendments and ask at the committee's meeting whether there is a possibility to apply another solution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u24	Thank you very much, sir. I would now ask you to speak in the following order: Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, first and then Mr Artur Dziambor. Members will present the position of the Confederation's Circle of Members.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u25	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, remotely. I hope you can hear me. At least there's no dripping from the roof, so there's a plus. Let's start with the simple question: Who would have guessed that the gates on the highways would cause traffic? Didn't those geniuses, those planners who've been working on our highways for 30 years, haven't they been able to predict that? Didn't any more governments that had been implementing these programs over the years raise any doubts about themselves, and then some kind of light came on at some point? Was it really necessary to wait until we were slowly approaching the end of the construction of our highway network - although it is a net of two on one, but always a grid - to correct this wrong, fatal assumption from the entrance? You really couldn't think before? This is a question for everyone, including the current opposition. Second question: Why do you even think highways should be extra-paid roads? What are some of the reasons for punishing drivers with an extra charge for driving on the highway, which is the safest, most economical type of road? After all, from the point of view of safety, ecology, economics, from every point of view, it is better for the driver to choose a highway than a parallel path of some inferior type. So in the name of what do you discourage drivers from acting rationally? After all, if anyone chooses a national road, a voivodeship, a local road instead of a highway because of these high fees, it will be worse for everyone, not better. So what, besides the greed of the rulers, justifies taking this racket from the drivers? Road tax at the price of fuel is the only fair toll for the use of roads, all roads, including motorways. We don't need any surveillance, no electronic shepherd, no electronic leash you're giving us here. And even if, for some reason, we have to charge tolls for the use of motorways, vignette is a simpler, cheaper and no surveillance tools for charging these fees. Third question. Why, a year ago, when you introduced a similar system for truck drivers, you lied, cheated that this system wouldn't involve cars? Why did you then calm down that it was just supposed to replace viaTOLL for trucks? And how can citizens now believe your good intentions, what do you expect when you've lied before? That is why the Confederation will vote against. We do not believe that you are telling the truth this time, we do not believe that this system will remain voluntary, especially since for those who do not want to use this surveillance method, the alternative option, i.e. buying tickets, will be rather a deterioration, a handicap. We therefore support the proposal to reject the project at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u26	Thank you very much. I would now like to hear from Mr Arthur Dziambor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u27	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, I just wanted to complete the words of the previous speaker - Mr Sosnierz, with another very specific question: will this system, which you are now introducing, which, of course, according to your description, improve the functioning and help drivers to drive on motorways, by chance in the future, be charged as automatically as it is now, because we will be followed and can be observed there as a moving dot - will not be used to draw tickets for speeding in the same way? This is quite a valid question, because at this point we are being followed by GPS, since such specific applications show us that the speed of 140 km/h is allowed on the highway - and sometimes we allow ourselves to do more and then we get information that we are speeding - then will she not ever want to use it, as my colleague Dobromir Sosnierz said, this greedy power, which will simply find another pickup, a way to somehow suffocate us into the ground and be able to charge us in such an interesting, peculiar way, with a description that everything is okay? So that's it. I'd like to ask you to answer that question. An application for rejection at first reading has already been made. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u28	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 will now be presented by Hanna Gill-Friday.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u29	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Whether after the introduction of an electronic toll system for the use of motorways you will be able to get 1500 zł fine for placing an ornament or a distinctive mark, e.g. Lightning, in front of, not even on, the license plate of the car? In the opinion of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050, the procedated draft amending the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund creates such a danger. The archaic toll collection system on motorways has become a nightmare of drivers - that's normal. This slows down the journey, often means that you have to stand in gigantic traffic before the gates - that is a fact, there is no reason to deny it. The government's been talking about closing the gates and the dams for years. Now, when we present a proposal to amend the High House, it ensures that, thanks to the electronic system, unpopular gates will disappear for good at the end of this year and that highways will become smoother and more comfortable. Okay. Reading the draft amendment, however, it is difficult to believe in these assurances, because it is full of errors, inaccuracies and incomparables. And so on. in the draft article. 13naa we read that for driving on a toll highway with covered or decorated plates the driver of the vehicle will have to pay a fine of PLN 1500 - and that is understandable. Punishment for covered boards is a logical consequence of the changes being made, because once the gates have been closed, the access to the motorway will be free and the charges will be charged on the basis of the vehicle geolocation data or the purchased electronic ticket. Although we believe that a fine of PLN 1500 is too high, the enforcement of the visibility of the license plate is fully justified. The problem is elsewhere. The record that the same draconian fine can be imposed, for example, is deeply astonished. for decorating the boards, i.e. putting some slightest ornament there, I don't know, a sign of a sports club, anything, but above all for, note, quote: placing inscriptions or objects at the front or back of the vehicle that limit the readability of these tables. So, for example. if someone puts a lightning bolt on the boards at the front and rear of the vehicle or on the whole plane of the strike of women, pink bear or Christian fish, it will be possible to be fined with a fine of PLN 1500, because any policeman will be able to say that it distracts the attention that it interferes with the readability of these plates. These laws are simply suitable for basketball because they are a field for abuse and for the police to use them for purposes that have nothing to do with this law. The proposal for an amendment offers great freedom of interpretation, so the concern about discretionary or maltreatment by the police is justified. Unfortunately, along with the draft amendment, Members have not been informed of the cost of launching the electronic toll system on the public side. The project foresees that the system will be joined by existing concessionaries of the A1, A2 and A4 motorways. Did the authors of the project carry out an analysis at all, a forecast of the costs of handling recovery and the necessary increase in administrative employment in order to effectively recover funds from penalties for non-tickets? Everything in this project indicates that unfortunately not. In our view, these issues must be clarified in detail during further work on the draft amendment. To sum up, our wheel, the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050, of course, is in favour of replacing electronic gates with toll collection system, while the relevant regulations should be precisely prepared. It can't be chaos, it can't be a legislative bubble. We certainly don't apologize at one session of the Sejm when it's all knee-pushed. That is why we will not vote in favour of this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u30	Thank you very much, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. We're going to ask questions. Would any of your fellow Members like to join the list? I don't know if I'm registered. You're still welcome, sir. I'm closing the list of people who've been saved for questions. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. He will be the first to ask the question of Mr Jan Warrzecha, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u31	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The mobile toll collection system is as reasonable as possible and expected by all motorway users, of which there is no doubt. The case of this on all motorway sections depends, as we know, on private operators, concessionaires. Here's a question for the Minister. Can we say, on the basis of today's talks, at what time is it possible to disseminate this system so that it covers all motorways? We also heard a few moments ago about some shortcomings if the app or phone switch off for some reason. This is a nuisance, you have to get off the highway and pay the fee manually. It would be worthwhile to work on this solution so that it is more user-friendly. And I'm surprised to see all the club representatives, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who, at first reading, want to reject a good bill. After all, there are still further readings where amendments can be tabled. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u32	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Artur Łącki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u33	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr, wait a minute, because here in the back, you are disturbing the secretary. There you go. The justifications of government bill designs are always a reading that grabs the heart. Also in this case there were several pearls. The use of one ICT system, read: surveillance, road toll collection, consistent with the e-services system of the Ministry of Finance, will facilitate the performance of the duties associated with the payment of tolls by highway. [[Applause]] Indeed, the concern of the government for its citizens has taken hold of the heart in this case. What will this government do to make it easier for citizens to carry out all their payment obligations? The sky's gonna swing right at you. And further: Using the electronic toll collection system of the National Tax Administration is rational, taking into account the expenditure incurred on its construction. Following this line of reasoning, this fee should be charged by the Social Security Office, because the expenditure on its system does not seem to exceed anything. [[Applause]] I also stumbled upon a fragment that I think was there by accident. Until now, I didn't think the government had such knowledge and empathy. I quote: The message of public interest is a well-known system [[♪ The bell ♪]] a legal general clause. It means the need to take account of the common good in the process of agreeing on the proposal. Yes, honourable Members of the United States - once - the Right, the common good. That's your duty to follow. Not the good of party colleagues, not the good of the president, not the good of Uncle Pcimia, but the good of the general public. This surveillance system should be dealt with after the war against the pandemic, and now we should be dealing with vaccinations, we should be dealing with the national reconstruction program and other things, not the bullshit you bring here. Goodbye. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u34	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Wiesław Szczepański, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u35	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question as to why the government did not equip the carriers with the appropriate equipment and why it burdened them with responsibility for the incorrect transmission of any data from the on-board equipment to the SPE KAS system. After all, the carrier should not bear the costs associated with the transport itself, as is the case so far. How does the government intend to solve the problem of equipment for transporters? I take it it's on them. Who is the manufacturer of both devices and is it true that its weekly performance is 200 devices? Therefore, I have a question about how long we will equip the carriers, whether we make them buy their own cells, how much will it cost the carriers to buy new equipment, so both phones, and why doesn't the government intend to bear these costs? What it looks like today, because soon this bill will come into force, promotional action or information that we will be driving soon. [[♪ The bell ♪]] without the obligation to pay tolls on motorways? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u36	Thank you very much. I would now ask you to ask Mr Dariusz Klimczak, the Coalition of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u37	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Making life easier for people is the responsibility of this House. Also the use of such technologies, which do not force us to stand in line at the gates, should be obvious, especially since there are already many such technologies, among others. such as those applied to parking fees in Warsaw or Łódź, or in the case of fixed speed measurement. He's not the problem. implementing this. So, if we have to pay for motorways, people expect it to be a system that is as simple as possible and that uses these technologies that are already available today. For those who do not want to use them - ordinary tickets, for others - those technologies that already exist today and do not expose to allegations of surveillance. I have three simple questions. First of all, if we don't have to operate this whole infrastructure, whether the tickets will be cheaper, and if, and on the basis of which estimates Have you done the math? Secondly, what guarantee do we have that this system will not be used now or in the future to measure the speed at which we move? And are you also going to exempt us from the charges, as we have done so far, when we come back from holidays, from the sea or from the mountains? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u38	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Jakub Kulesza, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u39	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Government! Have you fell on your heads that you want to solve such a simple problem in the stupidest way? Even the Chinese - because no country in the world has ever sought such an idiotic solution - did not choose to charge for cars based on geolocation data, because they thought it was too expensive a solution. Do you really think you can handle this? You had problems with the ProteGO Safe app, which was also supposed to follow citizens, and you had a number of other problems. Do you think you can solve this problem in such an expensive and inefficient way? After all, there are simple solutions all over the world, cheap, non-forced on citizens to have a mobile phone, install an app that will follow you on the highway, and if you don't turn it off, it will follow you off the highway as well. I ask: What is your motivation? Do any of you, by any chance, know anyone who's implementing these systems? Or maybe [[♪ The bell ♪]] You want to use this system for other purposes? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u40	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mrs Ewa Kozanecka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u41	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The bill, this very important project, brings many benefits to road users. I'm surprised the opposition makes such statements as "no law necessary," bullshit. I don't think that's justified. It's a good time to make a bill like this. Minister! I have questions that would also explain something to the Members of the opposition. How will users using toll motorways be able to pay tolls? It seems that this is a very simple, simple, non-complicated system that poses no threat to motorway users. Will the introduction of a new charging scheme contribute to reducing toll collection costs? Will it save road users and the state budget in the longer term? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u42	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Michał Grammar.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u43	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! The Act assumes that the application prepared by you will have full access to the location data of our smartphones, not only when we move on toll roads but to the full extent. Even in the COVID regulations, similar rules applied only to persons subject to quarantine. If you recall that on the basis of other laws, e.g. The law on the national census or the law on the general agricultural census, the government obtained from the Telecoms full information about our phone numbers, associated with our PESEL numbers and contact details, all of which consist of a picture of the Great Brother who knows everything about us wherever we are. The retention period, i.e. the retention period, is 24 months, but I failed to find in the project how you want to use this data, how to secure it, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And above all, why do you need this data at all? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u44	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u45	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, This law will have an impact, at least for a transitional period, also on the labour market. The removal of gates, i.e. toll collection sites, is envisaged. The explanatory memorandum states that these decommissioned jobs are low-paid, non-valorised and therefore there is no problem. One sentence says it won't affect family income. I would therefore like to ask you questions. What programmes will activating people who are fired both on the public and possibly on the private side be offered to these employees and cashiers? The Act imposes new duties on the head of the KAS. What will be the public expenditure in connection with the implementation of the Act? The third point is the implementation of the new system. In the Czech Republic, when [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's been implemented, it's been six months. There was an information campaign, which was also addressed to users on the Polish side. When the Sejm passed this law, what government provides for information action? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u46	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u47	Thank you very much. Before I ask you a question, Mr Marshal, I have the attention of Mrs Kozanecka to go back a few years, Madame, to listen to the transcripts of the meetings when your fellow Members here used more juicy terms to address the government and its initiatives. Minister! Let me ask you a specific question: How much exactly will this system cost, and what would the cost of introducing a vignette system look like? Today we live in Poland in extremely difficult times, the economy and health care system require a lot of money and it would be good to rationalise state spending in other areas. Please answer in writing how much the system will cost and how much less it would cost to implement the vignette system. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u48	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u49	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The costs related to maintenance of roads and motorways are above all personnel costs: salaries, health contributions, labour funds... The solutions put in place will certainly reduce these costs and that is why I have questions. What are the costs? How will this affect the profitability of motorways? Will this, my dear minister, also reduce the cost of motorways? Thank you. It's not gonna work because you have a raise on inflation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u50	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Truskolas, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u51	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the beginning, I would like to ask why this law is not being conducted by the Ministry of Infrastructure. It seems that tolls for motorways should be the responsibility of this ministry and not the Ministry of Finance and the Public Finance Commission. This is a very strange construction. Secondly, I would like to ask why it is not the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways that will be responsible for this system, only the National Tax Administration. I do not understand why an institution that is responsible for national roads, motorways, high-speed roads will not have the power to charge. Thirdly, I would like to ask you why you are introducing full surveillance of vehicles, full surveillance of drivers who travel on national roads and motorways. Isn't it better to organize this system differently, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So you don't have access to such sensitive data? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u52	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u53	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The geolocation-based system is intended to give the user full insight into the toll history. It follows that our historical data containing information about our travels will be stored in the operator's system. How does this fact apply to the GDPR regulation, which clearly states that our data can only be stored with our consent and, above all, can only be stored during the period necessary to carry out certain activities for which they have been collected? So what is the purpose of gathering this information, what is the planned storage period, and what services will have access to databases containing information about our travels? There is no country that operates on the basis of a geolocation system. So what is our government's idea supposed to do? Is it intended only to follow the citizens illegally? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u54	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u55	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a high hypocrisy from Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, a man who introduced a terrible system in 2010, and signed a terrible agreement for the interests of the Treasury. For several billion PLN - by a consortium of companies headed by an Austrian company - an inefficient, very expensive system was built. This is the credo of your governments. You took out money and wanted foreign companies to carry out such things, not the Polish state. The fact that the United Right government is taking control of this system today hurts the most. It hurts the most. You should stand here and apologize for signing a very unfavorable agreement - the Treasury with this consortium - for several billion zlotys. Very inefficient system. You should be ashamed of that. You're the last person to judge. Today, the Government of the United Right takes control of this system for the Republic of Poland just to secure the data of citizens. This is the credo of the rule of the United Right. This is the difference between you - PO and PSL and us. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u56	Thank you. In correction mode, in correction mode, Mr. Marshal. The question will be asked by Mr Paweł Pontylius and Mr Marshal in a moment. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u57	Mr. Marshal! So the PiS takes over the whole viaToll, that for 3 years only extends the contract, which already Kapscha does not commit to anything, and all costs and risks are on the side of the Treasury. Minister! You're not doing well with the NSPO. Why? I'll tell you. Because the main directors who prepare SIMZ are former employees of Kapsch Telematic Poland. As long as you don't get rid of them, you're gonna have trouble deciding on any tender. Of course, you're just reaping the toll of what Minister Adamczyk did, what Minister Zagórski did, and what Alvin Gajadhur did, because these are the guys who are responsible for this situation. The question I have for you is, what will happen after June 1, 2021? You guys aren't even in a position to open a bid at the OBU today. You are not able to integrate many systems that are needed for the NSPO. And the clock is ticking. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Question two and last! How much revenue has the viaTOLL generated since 2008, and how much has Kapsch Telematic Poland and its related companies earned? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u58	Thank you very much. In the procedure of correcting Mr Cezary Grabarczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr President, you do not understand the substance of the electronic toll collection system at all. This system is intended to generate funds for the development of motorways and expressways networks in Poland. Thanks to the fact that, as you said, this harmful contract was signed, on Polish roads we got about PLN 16 billion as part of the funds generated by drivers who used the already built network and submitted to the road, which we could express with a section from Strykow to the border with the Czech Republic in Gorzyczki. On the other hand, this system, which you wish to support, will also allow Mr Czarnecki to be monitored, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and OLAF will have an easier task next time because he will be able to ask the Minister for data on the whole way Mr Czarnecki is on his way to the European Parliament and then to Łańcut and Warsaw. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u60	Thank you very much. I now ask you to ask Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u61	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is another bill that is pushed in at the last moment, without deeper consultation, without deeper analysis. Under this law, tolls for motorways will be charged to the National Tax Administration, which will access our applications at the same time, and will be able to fully control the way we move. On the other hand, this law should also give rise to reflections on the overall costs of moving on motorways. For example, the Greater Poland section: a driver who wants to go back and forth must pay more for this than when he buys a 10-day vignette in the Czech Republic. I would like to ask: What were the influences of the so-called last year. the tax on means of transport, which is included in the price of fuel, and how many of these measures went to build new expressways and motorways? And one last question - here I would ask you to answer in writing. Is the government planning to increase due to the introduction of this system [[♪ The bell ♪]] the number of episodes paid e.g. by extending this, supplementing these sections also with expressways? I ask you to answer that question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u62	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In fact, you don't know where to start, so maybe I'll start by saying that 5.5 years of this power was enough to start leaking even a roof in parliament. And this is the real picture of this country in the pill-- what you've led to. [[Applause]] And that's exactly what it looks like with the toll collection system. I will say this: rarely does the transport environment speak with one voice, and in this case it does. It shows how bad this bill is. First of all, the total lack of consultation - the Ministry pushes, hides and introduces this change. Why? Well, if someone's trying to hide something, it means it's detrimental to the state and to the citizens. The Minister spoke about the benefits for the citizens, so I'll ask. Today, the citizen, the company receives free of charge a device for use and does not bear the cost here, and you introduce devices that will generate additional costs, costs for companies. Is that better? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Minister says it will be more cost-effective. I'm asking who, since you wrote down the annual raise in the bill... Time. ...road tolls with inflation rates, which is absolutely outrageous. Time's up. I'm asking you about more cases related to what data will be collected. After all, we had an example of Germany, where the data was excessive - two years the system did not function so that it could be eliminated. I'm asking in business... Thank you very much. ...citizens, what data will be collected. And finally, Mr. Marshal, one last thing. I don't know what it's like to have everyone talk about having to stand on the gate. I don't have to, and citizens wouldn't have had to, if the Ministry had listened to us four years ago and introduced harmonisation in the area of toll collection systems. Thank you very much. This is in Europe, it could be done, and the government slept for 4 years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u64	The question will be asked by Mr Konrad Frysztak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u65	Thank you, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! Apart from the fact that it will be an undisputed surveillance bill - you want to register which way, where, where, why, to whom Poles are going - I would like to ask a specific question. Do you also want to tax drivers on express roads? E.g. in Radom and around Radom S7 Member Suski, who arrives from home to his parliamentary office... ...Drunken father. He's gonna have to pay for it. Mr. Speaker! When it comes to who goes where or how, please focus on your policies that exceed speed and drive without a driver's license. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u66	And I ask that the Member ask a question. ...your dad. I now ask you to ask Mr Cesare Grabarczyk a question. [[Game in the O.R.]] Just because you're a jerk, that's clear.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You know very well that the first change of the system operator - from the General Directorate to the Road Transport Inspection - took place under the slogan: it will be better, it will be cheaper. It wasn't better, it was exactly the same, but more expensive. Now we're probably gonna have a repeat of the entertainment. But the question is, on what basis do you want to push through a recipe that will allow annual revalorisation of the measured inflation rate? Because European legislation allowing road tolls to be collected limits the conditions only to the cost of maintaining and developing the network. That's one thing. Two. Why this proven videotolling system does not want to support [[♪ The bell ♪]] government? This is a non-invasive system - only those who enter the highway are read as they descend from the highway are read, charged, and there is no further surveillance. Come to your senses. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u68	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u69	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Some kind of excavation of surveillance, profiling. We have the same thing in energy meters, today we hear about a new system. Minister, I wanted to ask what the position of the Office for Personal Data Protection is. Because as for energy, the president says something needs to be introduced, written down, and the minister says no, no profiling. We were able to do this by introducing an amendment. I wanted to ask you how the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection applies to this law. And another question. Minister, the collection system is one thing, the fees are the other. Does this system also provide for a reduction in tolls in the case of motorway works and speed limits? Today we go from Silesia to Krakow and there is a construction, repair of the highway, and every year charges are raised. The Government of Law and Justice, Minister Adamczyk (the bell) promised that he would change it, reduce it. He's been asking about it for eight years, and now he has the right to do it, and he hasn't changed it so far. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u70	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u71	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Two specific questions. Minister, please tell me whether in any country in Europe such a geolocation-based solution is applied in practice. Maybe I'll give you another chance. Maybe anywhere in the world is such a solution applied? Because today, ladies and gentlemen, we are hearing a lot of concerns about surveillance, civil rights violations in this room. Perhaps it would be worth it, Minister, if Poles do not want to go back to the vignette system, which would probably be much more absorbable and acceptable, and not convince Poles that this solution is good for them. Minister! It's worth going back sometimes. You can see that the system is very controversial. We are appealing here, but I am appealing to think about a solution that is simpler, more acceptable. [[♪ The bell ♪]] At the same time, I ask you to answer the question whether anywhere such a geolocation system operates in Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u72	Thank you very much. On this, the list of Members of the Question Task was exhausted. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Magdalena Rzeczkowska, to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members, Thank you very much for your questions. I'll try to block them a little bit. The first issue, which is probably the hottest, concerns, I quote: surveillance and espionage of drivers using a satellite system. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the data will only be collected in the scope and purpose of the legislation, and in the statutory rules. The allegation of non-constitutionality at the stage of the Public Roads Act, where these principles were introduced, was not raised. This has not been challenged in terms of compliance with the Constitution. The excess data are and will be removed from the system automatically. In the system they will be stored, and only in the time periods specified in the laws, the data related to the journey on the toll road. No additional data will be stored. They will be removed, as I said, automatically, and there will be an additional security mechanism. Every 3 months there will be an overview of the data and the deletion of the excess data if for some reason they appear there. I would like to remind you that citizens generally use services that assume the transfer of data to platforms, in addition to private, including foreign, and not secure, secure state solutions. [[Applause]] They give their personal data, make credit card payments in case of purchases, order food, etc. The National Tax Administration system is and will be built with all security principles, including the principles and regulations concerning the protection of personal data, i.e. the GDPR rules. The provisions of this law, which we are discussing here today, in the legislative process, were subject to extensive public consultation in the government process. The report from these public consultations is attached to the printing. There is an opinion on the compatibility of these provisions with European Union law on valorisation, but also on compliance with data protection rules, including personal data. When it comes to starting applications, security, etc., that you will need to run somewhere before entering, you can use this application primarily at such a convenient moment, also before entering the highway. There's nothing to be afraid of, because this data, like I said, which doesn't involve passing a toll section, isn't gonna be stored in the system. I would also like to remind you that it is the citizen who decides whether he will use the application, i.e. the solution related to satellite positioning or the ticket. I also said that the ticket and purchase of an electronic ticket or a ticket for a journey does not involve the need to provide geolocation data. Ticket cost. It was raised. Well, it will correspond precisely to the toll rate on the highway. He will not deviate from those solutions that are at the moment. You also expressed concerns about the carriers, inter alia. the forum of carriers. All these reservations, ladies and gentlemen, do not concern this law that we are investigating today, but the amendment of the Public Road Act adopted last year. This law sets out the shape of the road toll collection system for heavy vehicles and the philosophy of the system resulting from those provisions. National Tax Administration. We meet with carriers, discussing these solutions in the implementation of the system. We want to answer all these doubts. As far as information is concerned, information is provided together with invoices for the use of the viaTOLL system, and by the end of April it will start more massed, let's say, information action. Within the scope of this law, when this system is implemented on motorways, the information action will be carried out until December, when it is on 1 December that these groundbreakers are to disappear from motorways. Regarding the cost of construction of the maintenance system: 448 million - the whole system, 8.3 million - motorway sections, extension to motorways, and the average monthly cost of maintenance is estimated to be 10 million. As far as viaTOLL is concerned, it is well over PLN 20 million per month. As regards the speed of the procedure, the draft law provides for changes concerning heavy vehicles and carriers with regard to the facilitation of registration, the possibility of using the agent of the fleet card provider. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Hence the pace so that when the new system is implemented, carriers can make easier use of it. When it comes to covering the registration numbers and banning the manifestation of views, the car can, ladies and gentlemen, with what you want to stick and manifest the views you want. It's all about registration and the number itself, the license plate. I will also refer to staff issues, ensuring the system's service by KAS or GITD, control. You will find all the information about these costs in the OSR. As far as the budget for the National Tax Administration is concerned, the resources for control are 113 million per 10 years, and the GITD is 26,7. One million for 10 years. As regards the concession holders and the dissemination of the system, the date, I am unable to give it to you. It depends on the concessionaire's decision. Good. Thank you very much. I've already extended it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u74	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in two minutes. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 min. 51 hrs. 11 min 54]] I'm reopening the session. I would ask you to confirm the quorum before we proceed with the vote. I ask all Members to press any button to confirm the presence of the Sejm. It's not working. It's not working. It's working. It's working. The meeting shall be attended by 422 Members. I'm declaring a quorum. We continue to consider item 2 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on amending the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund and some other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Infrastructure for consideration. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print 1073, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 203 - for, 226 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm rejected the application and thus referred the draft law to the Infrastructure Commission for consideration. I propose that the Sejm, based on the article. 39 (1) (a) 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, set a time limit for the submission of the report for consideration at the current sitting of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I hear an objection. We therefore proceed with the vote on this proposal. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal for a report to be submitted by the committee in time for consideration at this sitting will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 227 for, 200 against, 3 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the offer. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Law - Penal Code and some other laws (prints 867, 867-A and 1002). I would like to ask Mrs Anna Milczanowska to submit a report to the committee. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]] Mrs Silczanowska, who is looking for you. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u75	I'm here. Good morning, Mr. Marshal. And where are you? I'm somewhere on the wall. On the remote. On the remote. You know, I'm really sorry, but I was looking for you in the chair, not on the wall. There you go, Member. Hello. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Law - Penal Code and some other laws, prints Nos 867 and 867-A. Sejm at its 26th meeting on 25 February 2021 pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law together with the self-amendment to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. At the same time, your Marshal of the Sejm, based on the article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm set a deadline for the submission of a report not exceeding 16 March 2021. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, after considering the above draft law at its meeting on 15 March 2021, asks the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. The Commission shall act in accordance with Article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall present 13 minority applications at the request of applicants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u76	Thank you very much. I have a problem - well, not from now on - with the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, because I don't have a name. Peter Sak. Exactly, but, sir, you didn't turn yourself in like that. No discipline in your club. Come in, sir. Because they're allowed to do anything. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. There you go, representative of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u77	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the undiscovered pleasure, but also the imperative, to present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice. The draft was presented in detail during the meeting referred to by Anna Milczanowska, so there is no need to duplicate and quote in extenso any assumptions and provisions of the proposed normative act. Nevertheless, I would like to talk about issues relating to this legislative lift that took place during the Justice Committee meeting. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The record of the preliminary meeting, for which there have been some doubts so far, has been modified as regards the limitation of the defence function and the request to establish a defender at this stage of the proceedings. It's been deleted. In this respect, when it comes to the protection of defence by a professional lawyer, it has been fixed and there is no doubt that the possibility of obtaining the assistance of a lawyer will be at the full stage of the proceedings, not only as there will be a partial precision at this stage of the proceedings. The marks of the offence in Article have been corrected and supplemented. 57 misdemeanor codes. There were some imperfections in the original assumption. They have been complemented by and a full range of such bad collection activities for the purposes of obtaining fines or compensatory measures, whether the loss has been punishable. There has also been a breach of these types of victims. In addition, a minor adjustment was made with regard to Article. 338 § 1a as regards the scope of the instruction. In addition, terminology has been harmonised and legislative and editorial corrections have been made. Thanks to all these sandings, details - of course, regardless of the original proposal and the current one - the Law and Justice Club supports the draft submitted in Seym printing No 1002. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u78	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Barbara Dolniak, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u79	Thank you, Marshal, for giving the floor. The governing camp did not even lean over factual and logical arguments concerning this bill. All the amendments tabled by the opposition were rejected. But that's what you'd expect. This means that this project should not enter into force, and that is why we are once again requesting that it be rejected. This project is unacceptable because it leads to changes in the Code of Criminal Procedure, which will restrict access to public information. They will deprive the citizen of the possibility of asking for the content of the decision and justification in the event of the termination of the preliminary procedure. We will no longer find out about the upsetting public opinion of the prosecution's case and its work, because the prosecutor will always find an argument to refuse to release the file. Unacceptable are the provisions that you introduce when it comes to serving the order of temporary arrest. Now the Minister of Justice will be able to keep not only an inconvenient lawyer, but also any insubordinate one, even from the grave board. It is unacceptable to change the iron letter that the prosecutor will really decide about, not the independent court. Now it's going to be that the Attorney General will be able to recommend to the prosecutor in charge who can be arrested and who should be protected. It is unacceptable to adopt provisions suspending the limitation period not only during an epidemic or epidemic but also one year after it has ceased. This not only deprives the legal system of the fundamental basis in Poland, but it will mainly affect the conduct of proceedings. And the principle of this procedure should be a quick, efficient judgment, not an infinity of proceedings, because it does not serve to gather evidence. The arrangements that you wish to introduce regarding the limitation of formations in the courts of appeal are unacceptable. This will create a situation that will give us the opportunity to manipulate appeals not only during the epidemic, but within a year after the end of this state. Thus, PiS officials acting to the detriment of the public interest, with millions of public funds in purchasing ventilators or abnormal masks, have a chance of impunity. Finally, there are unacceptable changes to the asset guarantee based on the erroneous assumption that the guarantee is a synonym for punishment rather than a safeguard measure. Such a solution means that today only rich people, not those who have low income, will be able to be guaranteed. In the context of all these changes, there is no surprise at the attitude of Solidarna Polska aimed unfortunately at the destruction of the justice system. On the other hand, it is strange to see her coalitioners uncritically, especially the Jarosław Gowin Agreement, who was once the Minister of Justice, and the Agreement calls itself the guardian of the rule of law on the right. Yet there is nothing in the rule of law here - neither restricting access to public information, nor the possibility of arresting an unconscious person, nor citing an institution of an iron letter and a guarantee of property. Under the cloak of the fight against terrorism and the coronavirus, the PiS apparently still wants to introduce solutions that abuse the legal system. On the other hand, you want to introduce a system in which a citizen can no longer control power, a system in which he looks at his own fingers and puts himself in detention thinking differently, a system which grossly undermines democracy and civil rights. Such solutions are not right to exist. By taking advantage of the pandemic situation, when everyone first takes care of their health and life, they fight the pandemic. You are introducing solutions that will show you how quickly you can influence [[♪ The bell ♪]] to the decision of another man and how quickly, using these solutions, make the legal system unreliable. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u80	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. You have the floor of Katarzyna Ueberhan, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u81	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! First of all, Art. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 3 - broken, second, article. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 - broken, thirdly, Article. Article 41 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 - broken, Art. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, Article Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of 3, Article Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, Article 47, Art. 49, Art. 54 (1) (a) 1, Article 57, Art. Article 61 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, Article Article 61 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 and finally Article. 64 constitutions - also broken. 13 provisions of the Constitution. As many provisions of the Basic Law violate the present submission currently contained in print No 1002, including some of the constitutional guarantees, such as the right to court or defence, are violated several times by subsequent proposed amendments. 13 violations of the Constitution. 13 sins, the next sins of the evil change. It violates the fundamental principles of a democratic state, such as the overriding nature of the Constitution and its laws, independent judicial authority, the right to court, defence, the principle of equality of the parties to proceedings, the principle of proportionality, the protection of civil rights and freedoms. It also violates the fundamental principle of non-retroactivity and the principle of legal certainty and confidence of the citizen in the State and the law which the institution of limitation of criminality and enforcement entails. Of course, it also violates the principle of transparency. The proposed amendment to the law - Penal Code, which is supposed to comply with the EU Directive and adapt Polish legislation to EU legislation, obviously goes beyond the scope of the submission. The proposed amendments have been formulated so that they can lead to a reduction in human rights, in violation of freedom of expression, freedom of assembly, the right to family and private life, the mystery of correspondence, and lead to a reduction in the possibility of disseminating information for scientific, research, academic, reporting purposes, violations of the rights of persons arrested, restricts the right to a court of those who are disadvantaged, disregards the fundamental procedural rules so far. Most of the proposed amendments have nothing to do with the fight against terrorism and the implementation of the directive as indicated in the proposal for a directive and include provisions amending other laws - the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Code of Offences, the COVID - amending them in a manner unrelated to the purpose of regulation, constitutes a violation of the principle of a rational legislator and the fairness of the legislative process. Thus, the title of the submission itself is misleading. The proposed amendments are not linked, either in substance or functionally, to the implementation of a specific legislative objective. Why, then, who do they serve? They certainly do not serve a democratic legal state, they certainly do not serve citizens and citizens. This is another novel, the main objective of which is to strengthen the role of prosecutor without strengthening the procedural guarantees of citizens and citizens as parties to the proceedings. The role of the Attorney General is once again becoming a co-deciding, decisive role, which has been reserved exclusively for the court. This is a continuation of the deconstruction of the democratic rule of law. This is a progressive corruption of law and the destruction of justice by the rule of law and injustice. This project once again shows the true bad face of the wrong change, has the face of the Minister of Injustice. Each of the proposed changes is burdened with a mistake, whether legislative or logical, or lack of integrity. Designed changes are so bad and harmful, so anti-democratic and unconstitutional that they should not be procedated. However, instead of going to the basket, as we have already called for at first reading, the project went to the committee for a second reading. The amendments tabled during the committee's work to remove these harmful changes, unfortunately, were rejected by the right-wing votes in the committee. They have been re-notified as minority requests. The Left, of course, will support the minority's proposals, and still does not support the submission. Therefore, on behalf of the Left Club, I again request that the project currently in print 1002 be rejected in its entirety at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u82	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I ask Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Coalition Poland would like to present our position on the report of the committee on the draft law amending the law - Penal Code and some other laws, prints no 867, 867-A and 1002. The law on the substance implements the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union on combating terrorism. And everything at this stage would have been good if it had not been for the first time, in the practice of the last few years of this House, that the provisions go far beyond the requirements of this directive. This includes: § 5b in Article 156. I also wanted to point out to the High House that this is confirmed by the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office, which points out that the provision only does not infringe European Union legislation, rather than that it falls within the scope of European Union regulation. This is worth paying attention to. In its opinion, the Supreme Bar Council set out the criticism of the introduction of provisions not implementing the directive. Here's a quote: The practice outlined in the article should be completely criticised. 2nd and next draft opinion. The proposed amendments have nothing to do with the fight against terrorism and the implementation of Directive 2017/541 of the European Union and therefore the inclusion of provisions amending other laws in a way unrelated to the purpose of the regulation constitutes a violation of the principle of a rational legislator and the integrity of the legislative process. The additional provision - it was mentioned - indicates that the file of the completed investigation is treated in the same way as the file of the ongoing investigation. Therefore, in politically sensitive cases, there is a threat of manual control of the scope of information provided by the Prosecutor-General and at the same time of the Minister of Justice for 6 years. If the proposed rules enter into force, there will be no way in the future to account for prosecutors who resign from proceedings related to e.g. exceeding the powers of public officials in connection with the elections of 10 May 2020 This is a politically sensitive case in which there is pressure on the prosecutor not to initiate or terminate proceedings, while guaranteeing that the provisions in question are not responsible to the public. If the public service is compromised, the prosecution will no longer be subject to public oversight. High Izbo! In conclusion, in our opinion, in the opinion of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition, if the bill were limited only to the provisions of the Penal Code implementing the EU directive on terrorist offences, there would be nothing controversial about it. But this project includes, above all, amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which have nothing to do with the subject-matter of the bill and which significantly limit citizens' rights to a fair trial. These changes have nothing to do with combating terrorism and implementing the EU Directive. Therefore, High Izbo, as a parliamentary club, we do not see the possibility of supporting this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u84	Thank you very much. I would like to invite Mr Robert Winnicki, the Confederation's Parliamentary Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u85	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There are several aspects to this bill. Firstly, it is to implement EU law to prevent terrorist activities and related technological developments, i.e. changes that enable terrorists to use modern media, the Internet to promote their attitudes, but also to create direct instructions. However, there are some doubts here, among others. such that, if the amendment provides for prosecution of conduct involving the receipt of instructions on the manufacture or use of explosives, it is a problem that sending someone to a box of such instruction and receiving such instruction may become a cause of prosecution. There is also a definition problem when it comes to explosives. As we know - not only from a chemistry lesson, on which sometimes it could happen that careless handling of materials and experiments led to some small explosion - it is an imprecise issue. Another problem that arises in connection with this law is that it is important to remember, ladies and gentlemen, which the government has for six years not wanted to remember very much, that the most effective anti-terrorist policy in Europe is a restrictive migration policy. And this is the most effective tool to combat the potential nesting of terrorism in Europe. On the other hand, for 6 years the government has been conducting a policy of open doors and mass immigration to Poland. But that's by the way. As a Confederation, we also draw attention - and we do not understand - to the fact that in this document there is an extension of the circum-COVID state of emergency in the judiciary. It is extended not only to the duration of the epidemic threat - which has at all its questionable legal and constitutional grounds, as already many times the courts have ruled in the last year - either the epidemic declared because of the COVID-19, but also for a period of one year until the last of them has been cancelled. It is a criminal court ruling in cases of criminal offences punishable by imprisonment, the upper limit of which shall not exceed five years, at an appeal hearing in the composition of one judge, if the court has ruled in the same composition at first instance. Not only do we not see grounds for paralyzing the judiciary today, but we do not fully understand why we should prolong it until a year after the outbreak was abolished or whatever you called it in the government and introduced it inefficiently, unconstitutionally and unlawfully, and now you have to face the fact that the restrictions are being lifted by the courts. Why should this state of emergency, causing even greater failure of the Polish judiciary, be maintained for another year? This is just ridiculous. This is just ridiculous. You have to act exactly the opposite way, the courts should return to normal judgment as soon as possible. What is normal ruling in the III Polish Republic is another discussion, because the judiciary has been permanently bogged down for 30 years and unfortunately for 6 years in this respect. Nothing's changed. But this terrible slowdown, this extension of all the procedures we are observing, should end as soon as possible, and not yet reserve you a year of extension of this sick, pathological condition. So much for our comment on the Confederacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u86	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u87	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Projects implementing European Union law and adapting national law to Union requirements should be brought into Parliament by the Council of Ministers. We would therefore like to ask the first one signed under the parliamentary project - namely, Mr Waldemar Andzel - why he and the next 32 parliamentarians are breaking this principle. The Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 will of course not support this project. We will be in favour of minority proposals identical to our proposals for amendments. Many lawyers, having read this project, even talked about legislative pathology. That is why, during our work on this project, we expressed our opposition, among others. against provisions abolishing the possibility of payment of a financial guarantee or of the recovery of damage caused by a crime by third parties. We have stressed the limitation of parties to the proceedings to access the file of the completed investigation, justifying the possibility of using the file against the person who has been cleared of charges in the future. We were also opposed to allowing temporary detention even if the defendant was not effectively informed of the court's decision in this regard. We pointed out the dependence of the Iron Letter in the preparatory proceedings on the prosecution's will. Our circle is opposed to restricting the composition of the criminal court in the second instance in cases for some crimes to one judge, not three. Let's stop just for a moment with this design limit. Referring to the epidemic threat of judges appears to be a violation of the Constitution and the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights. After all, no reliable evidence was provided indicating that the courts were the site of the spread of Coronavirus. And we all know very well that serious matters should be settled in more than one judge. Neither does the epidemic relieve law enforcement and justice from normal functioning. Hence, it is not necessary to extend the period of statute of limitations under its pretext, and we have also talked about this. The voters already see this and point out that the police and prosecutors, and the courts behind them, are recently busy chasing peaceful protesters. Applicants did not submit any reliable data demonstrating the need for far-reaching interference in civil rights and freedoms. High Seym! How a dry stick is broken by the tough principle of citizen confidence in the state. Hard rules, also parliamentary customs, applicants treat just like dry sticks. That's too bad. Find a hard stick, don't break it, because if you continue to break those rules... This is harmful to all of us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u88	Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. 14 people came in. I'm setting the time to ask questions for one minute. Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition, is kindly and politely asked to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In front of us, a temporary arrest in the State of PiS turns into permanent mining arrest. Mining arrest is de facto torture of prisoners by prolonged illegal isolation. This slowly becomes a hallmark of the present time. The Lex Super Omnia Association warns that the number of people who are in custody for more than 2 years increased by 443% compared to 2014. If this amendment to K.p.k. It's gonna come into force, it's gonna be more. In fact, it will make no sense for the court to rule on the property guarantee. To pay bail, you can't sell your own car or borrow money from your family, and nobody keeps that kind of money in your account. Moreover, the order for temporary arrest may even be served to an unconscious person. Paranoia, not law. Minister! Tell me why you're making these changes. You want to shut all citizens down, [[♪ The bell ♪]] hold Locked up? Why, instead of fighting bandits, are you making criminal laws? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u90	Thank you. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u91	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The one-man amendment is very dangerous as it seeks to undermine the rule of law and to implement the PiS justice model. The defendant's criminal appeal is to be dealt with by one judge. It is strange that the pandemic justification is intended only for the protection of criminal courts. The proposals for this amendment do not see this need for civil matters, administrative courts or local colleges. Is it a matter of appeal against convictions or acquittals only one judge, that one, certain, designated by another party judge, since the rules of draw are not always known because of the refusal to control the algorithm of draw of judges? This amendment in my mind is intended, and this confirms the uniqueness of its application - only to criminal matters. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, I have a question: Why is there no such change in the case of other proceedings in which the judges in the three-member subpoenas are adjudicated in the second instance? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u92	Thank you. Mr Michał Szczerba, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Are you an MP? There isn't. Mrs Barbara Dolniak, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u93	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! I have questions for the designers, the developers of this project. What was the purpose of introducing a mandatory preliminary meeting? I think it's just to get your stats up. Because as it turns out, this flagship project of yours is used in only 1% of cases. Now you'll be able to show off that in most cases. What is the purpose of the mandatory involvement of the prosecutor or the defender in this meeting if the same requests can be made in writing? What is the purpose of prolonging the limitation period or changing the formation of a judge over a period of more than one year from the end of an epidemic or pandemic, when you stated in the explanatory memorandum that it was the protection of workers, judges or persons who were called to court? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What is the purpose of introducing the possibility of serving the order of temporary arrest also to unconscious persons or persons in a state which precludes informed decision-making? Isn't this the last media issue that's gonna lead to a solution like this? What is the purpose of this project? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u94	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a bad bill, but it's not a bill bad at one point, this bill is just from the beginning to the end bad. You'd have to totally reject him and start working with him again. First of all, the worst thing is that you're using a pandemic to create a bad law. Remember, you will not rule for long, and this will also work against you. Today it is the use of power, the use of pandemics to create law against citizens. What is the purpose and why are you restricting access to public information? Let everyone know how we work. Let the cards be on the table. What is the purpose of limiting poorer people, e.g. Property guarantee? Because de facto today (the bell) only richer people will benefit from the property guarantee. These elements in this bill really are a lot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u96	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u97	Thank you kindly. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The extreme anti-European right, which rules today, is using a clever method to discourage citizens from the European Union. When implementing European directives, it puts laws in the draft legislation that have nothing to do with European law, but they are usually the worst for you and the worst ideas for the citizen. If someone asks about these ideas, they say that this law implements European Union law, although in fact and in accordance with the facts these worst laws in such a law usually invent the Government of Law and Justice. There are a lot of rules in this draft. If this project is pushed through the parliament, it will not be possible to account for prosecutors who, in a gesture of submission to power, ignore the evidence and refrain from investigating the crimes committed by the people of that authority. I have a question: How many members and nominates of Law and Justice, Solidarna Polska and the Agreement in various institutions are under investigation regarding the possibility of committing a crime? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'd like to estimate how many prosecutors might be affected by this provision. Second thing. Why do you want to limit the guarantee institution only to the rich, or at most 1% citizens, many of whom are once again newly rich members and nominators of Law and Justice? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u98	Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, there is a violation of the principles of proper legislation in law enforcement. Because here in the draft law, which is intended only to implement the EU's counter-terrorism directive, there are a lot of stupid, and certainly dangerous solutions. One of them is among others. the fact that the absence of a lawyer, attorney or prosecutor, even if it is necessary and mandatory in the procedure, will not hold up the hearing, but that the prosecutor's obligation to be present will already be upheld. What are the amendments aimed at establishing that only one judge, not three, will be included in the appeal court, as has been the case so far? After all, three judges are not appointed for this or because they have no competence or knowledge, just to avoid any suspicion of bias, (BELL RINGING) I want the final judgment to be as good as it's gonna be. This bill doesn't deserve any support. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u100	Thank you very much. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz is capable, no, sorry, remotely. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm sorry, I was indistinctly written down. I know he's capable. Mr... Well, it turns out he's not as capable as I thought. We will wait a moment because we respect your Member as much as anyone else. Okay. So what? We'll probably wait for the call. Let's move on. Mr Adam Szłapka, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is an unacceptable project. This is a project that violates the constitution and violates fundamental human rights. I look at the many present in the Chamber at the trial of the Members of Law and Justice and I ask: Do you realize that you are sawing the branch on which you are sitting? You will mention my words, I guarantee you that in a moment there will be a series of cases in which Zbigniew Ziobro will be you - also on the basis of this bill - blackmailed with hooks, various notices and communications to the prosecution in order to force your political actions according to his intention. However, among many very bad rules in this law is one that I particularly want to ask about. What is the justification for limiting the right to access public information? Because there's no other reason for real and logical than just covering for thieves. In this connection, I have a question for the representatives of the Ministry: what particular cons and robbers, [[♪ The bell ♪]] e.g. like in the Polish National Foundation, do you want to cover on the basis of these regulations? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u102	Thank you. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are trying to bring our rights into line with EU law in order to effectively judge those accused of terrorism. That's very good. Unfortunately, as usual, we are on the subject in my opinion, not on this side. To judge a terrorist, you have to detect him first and then catch him. Our services have not been able to check in the publicly available databases of the arms dealer, who remains unpunished until today despite the extortion of millions of zlotys from the budget, are unable to control Mr. Obejtek. Poles laugh today, that the only authority prosecuting terrorists in Poland is the Smolensk Sub-committee, for the money of a country which they do not intend to disclose. The records of this parliamentary project are a combination of all the topics that have appeared to the rulers in the last 6 years. They are described in this parliamentary project. I would just like to ask (the bell): Why is this not a government project? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u104	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u105	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, Art. 2 of the amended law in Amendment 1 and Amendment 2 describes situations that could be called this: Amendment 1. - Kazus o. Tadeusz Rydzyk, change 2. - because Fr Tadeusz Rydzyk collected money for Television Trwam and his own school and drilling without the appropriate permission of the Ministry of Interior and Administration. He was fined. Father said that he had no means to pay the fine, she paid the fine to the PiS Member, Anna Sobecka. These two articles describe this situation perfectly. Maybe now, after 29 years, there'll be a chance to operate according to the law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Fr Tadeusz Rydzyk, mentioned above, and if not, the government, with this solution in hand, will be able to apply these laws. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u106	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Krutul, parliamentary club of the Left. I invite you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u107	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Why once again does Law and Justice apply the bad practice of spoiling law and the draft amendment of a specific law go beyond the scope of the submission and amend other laws? In this case, the draft law amending the Penal Code amends the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Code of Offences and the so-called. The COVID Act. In the bill presented under the pretext of adapting Polish law and the provisions of the Penal Code to EU law, the right hand fraudulently changes these other laws, while breaking dozens of articles of the Constitution. Minister! The Left will not lay a hand on it and will oppose it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Explain to the Members what the project is really about when it comes to reducing the judges' membership from three to one, because in the discussion it seems that most have made it clear that no one believes that the pandemic has anything to do with this. So I would very much ask you to reveal the proper reasons for this proposed change. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u110	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, parliamentary club of the Left. There you go, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u111	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Law and Justice took over governments with a slogan in 2015: a good change. Except you guys are the worse change. A worse change in the justice system, a worse change in the ethical, moral dimension. You guys are just a change that's supposed to politicalize the justice system. This law, these rules, are nothing more than strengthening the strength of the Attorney General, who will apply more mining arrests, which will lead a policy that is to be repressive to others than its own, and in relation to its own, it will allow it to sweep under the carpet cases that are unpleasant, which could cause a fall in support. Responsibility for the law in Poland orders you to be against it, but morality commands you to tell you: do not go this way because you are corrupting the justice system, but someday someone will come after you and will have to clean up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u112	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome, ma'am.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u113	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Representatives of the governing party have two options, and now even three ways in the legislative initiative. They can file a bill, the president can file a bill, and in Parliament a group of Members can do it, and it can also be a government project. This second road, the draft of the Council of Ministers, unfortunately, due to the position held by the Council of Ministers in the State, is longer. This road requires more formalities, evidence confirming the validity of the proposed solutions, it requires public consultation, and this is theoretically a proposal to change Polish law, adapting Polish law to EU law. In the case of such a project, it would be expected to be a government project. In this case, This is a parliamentary project. Is that why you're missing out? [[♪ The bell ♪]] consultation to shorten the legislative path in order to speed up the adoption of these rules, abandon the government project and present this project as a parliamentary project? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u114	Thank you. Mr Michael Szczerba. Late and superior from position six to last, for punishment. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u115	Dear Marshal, Late, but justified, because I just filed a fourth notification to the District Attorney's Office of Warsaw-Śródmieście about the so-called. It's a ventilator scandal. This is a notification, Minister. I hope the U.S. Attorney General will take a look at this case because he refused to oversee this investigation. But this law, this project, concerns the making available of files of cases completed at the stage of the investigation. In fact, the prosecutor will be able to apply public information rules in such a way as to de facto refuse to make those files available to closed proceedings. This case is appalling, ladies and gentlemen, because it is not only a matter of failure by officials, by ministers in the Ministry of Health, but it is a matter of causing great damage, but it is also a matter of perhaps VAT crime. ♪ The bell ♪ Namely, the arms dealer issued invoices at a zero VAT rate. Ministry officials were fully aware that this rate should be 8% They didn't respond for months. Only as a result of our control with Mr Ionski, after 8 months, ladies and gentlemen, the invoice with zero VAT has been sent back to the exhibitor, was sent back without notice to the prosecution and to the penal authorities. That's why we made another notification today in this case. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u116	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed... Oh, before closing the discussions and questions, of course, the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Justice, Minister Michał Woś. Minister, I am so sorry that I wanted to close the discussion without your voice, but I think she would be lame enough to make me better right away. There you go. The rapporteur of the committee, Anna Milczanowska, will continue to speak. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will start by thanking Mr Szczerba in an unusual way that he appreciates the provisions of the VAT crime prepared at the Ministry of Justice. Indeed, all criminals in Poland must be prosecuted, and this is also the law submitted to the High House by a group of Members of the applicants, which the Ministry of Justice fully supports. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm a little sorry that the eight-hour, long-term committee meeting didn't explain all the issues. Well, we take this on the shoulders of our imperfections, that we have not clearly explained certain points to the Members' House, because unfortunately, some contradictions have been repeated from the Seymary, which have already occurred during the work of the committee, with this crown at the head, which is being reproduced by the media, and from this I will start by saying that the guarantee institution is radically limited that it cannot be guaranteed. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it's fake news, it's a lie. As regards guarantees, the institution remains and the catalogue of persons entitled to provide guarantees remains unchanged. Moreover, it is not true that guarantees can only be used by wealthy, wealthy people, because in this respect changes are not applied in any way. This is fake news, ladies and gentlemen. The change is to guarantee in a personal way, from your own assets, because that is the institution of guarantee. So husband, wife, family, etc. they can personally vouch for someone by doing this function, it is this measure in criminal proceedings, and not by handing over, without increasing the assets, so to speak, the person to whom this measure is applied. It has been said many times here that the law violates the constitution, seems to be a dozen or thirteen articles. Left in the same text as the committee meeting... Word for word was quoted as the position of the club. And then this position of the club was, you can say, confronted with reality as well as the opinion that lawyers in Poland have radically criticised these solutions. For example, the external opinion ordered by Mrs Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska at Prof. Gardocka at at least four points praises the solutions adopted: praises the blocking of content published on the Internet where it relates to terrorist offences, praises electronic copies of the delivery of indictments, praises international agreements on this matter, finally praises the suspension of certain proceedings. Next, the National Chamber of Legal Counsels: once again blocking pages, electronic copies, praises solutions related to preliminary meetings. Mrs Dolniak asked about the preliminary sittings. Yes, they are functioning and very well that they will be able to function more widely, because they are very useful and improve behaviour. The prosecutor's failure to appear does not result in nullity in any respect or in any way, but the National Chamber of Legal Counsels welcomes what has been repeatedly raised here, namely the judicial formations. Compositions limited to one judge. Please note that as far as these warehouses are concerned, actually 99% matters in meetings shall be dealt with in such a way. As part of the epidemic-related actions, in the pandemic-related actions, these cases are not cases for up to five years... Of course, every crime is serious, and when it comes to matters related to imprisonment for up to 5 years, you can open the Penal Code and see that this does not really apply to the most serious cases in which multi-member warehouses are preserved. Finally, mythical access to the file of the completed preliminary investigation. Well, ladies and gentlemen, these solutions adapt us to the standard that is used on the prosecution's side in court, i.e. in the court, the President of the court shall decide whether the proceedings are pending or terminated on access to the file. What does that tell you? First of all, it is about coherence of action, and second of all - it must also be strongly emphasised - the parties will still have the same access as they have now, nothing changes here. On the other hand, the High House must be aware of what is in the file: often the testimony of a woman who has been raped. Should such things be made available to journalists to read and continue? There are a number of solutions that need to be made clear, as in the case of the institutions of the letter of iron and a number of other issues that you have raised, and which, unfortunately, during the 8-hour meeting of the committee, have not yet been clarified enough. Thank you kindly, sir. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u118	As corrected by Mrs Dolniak, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u119	Thank you very much, Marshal, for giving the floor. I wanted to address the issue of public information and what the Minister just said. Well, Minister, the regional district courts have long spoken out, which is public information. The decision terminating the investigation and the reasons for this provision are public information, and therefore your information presented just now that this leads to the disclosure of witnesses' statements, to the disclosure of documents which, for example, are unreliable. they may have been covered by a secret. The point is that you will make it impossible for citizens to obtain information about the content of the order, the reason for the termination of the proceedings at the stage of the preparatory procedure. That's what it's all about - keeping the D.A.'s office secret so that [[♪ The bell ♪]] the citizen could not find out why the proceedings were terminated, e.g. in relation to the perpetrator acting within the broad sense of the United Right. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u120	Thank you very much. The answer to the corrigendum, Minister. Here you go - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u121	Thank you kindly, Marshal, for being able to answer. I'll start with this: I understand that this is about the regional administrative courts, not the provincial district courts, but here, I guess... Administrative, that's right. A lot of time - the High House should be explained - we have spent in committee, for example, discussing the ruling of the Supreme Administrative Court in this respect, which was making the arguments put forward by the Member. Thank you kindly. The Supreme Administrative Court...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u122	The discussion is closed. Since, at the time of the second reading, applications for rejection were submitted to the draft law, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Revised report by the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the governmental draft law amending the Act - Energy Law and some other laws (prints Nos 808 and 1025). I ask Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u123	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Sejm Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets, I present an amended report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Act - Energy Law and some other laws, print No 1025. On 16 March 2021, the Sejm Bureau reiterated its draft law in print No 865 to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets for the purpose of considering the revised report. At its meeting on 16 March, the committee re-examined the draft law to which 19 amendments had been tabled. The Commission included 12 amendments in the report, six amendments were rejected and one amendment was withdrawn. The act presented concerns the adaptation of Polish law to the rules in force in the European Union in order to achieve the smooth functioning of the intelligent software system in the energy sector. In this way, households and companies will be accounted for for for electricity according to actual consumption, not so far according to forecasts and without the need for physical presence of inks. The Commission calls on the High Sejm to adopt the draft law annexed to this report by the committee, i.e. Print No 1025. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u124	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Witold Czarnecki, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, is kindly asked to speak. Has he been posted?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u125	Good morning. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the position of the club on the government draft law amending the Act - Energy Law and some other laws, Parliamentary Print No 808, 865 and 1025. The draft law entered the Sejm on 3 December 2020 and was intended for first reading at the Sejm meeting held on 9 December. The project was then addressed to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets. The report on the work of the committee can be found in Seym printing No 865. The amendment of the Act - Energy Law, which we are looking at today, assumes among others. introduction of intelligent measurement in Poland by 2028, which I talked more about at first reading to cover around 80% meters that will be remote reading meters of measurements. This is an opportunity for infrastructure development, to take a milestone towards creating new standards in the energy market in Poland. I hope that happens. This will introduce new regulatory solutions, such as: dynamic tariffs, as a result of which consumers will receive a discount for energy interruptions or for inadequate quality of energy supplied. During the committee meeting, 12 amendments were tabled, as was said by the President. Members of the Parliamentary Club have supported nine of these amendments. The Parliamentary Club recommends that the High House adopt the law contained in the committee's report. At the same time, I wanted to hand over two amendments to the Marshal. The first concerns the protection of personal data of individuals and eliminates the alleged unconstitutionality of previously adopted solutions. The second changes the rules on the promotion of electricity generation in offshore wind farms, making them more flexible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u126	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u127	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I am speaking on behalf of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club and I would like to present the position of the club on this draft in print, actually in three prints: 808, 865, 1025. High Izbo! Today we are investigating a government project to amend the Energy Law and some other laws. Complicated procedure. We started in December 2020 and today it has been almost 5 months since then and we are still working on the project. The project needed, a few years lay down, several years was consulted and today we have another procedure. First reading, committee meeting, second reading, committee meeting. Today in the Seym we have a second reading. That was the procedure. This would not arouse any emotion about the process of proceding over the last few months, if a subcommittee had actually been established, if this subcommittee had been leaning over every article for these few months, on every provision of this bill, if the parties concerned by this law had been invited to these meetings: associations and energyists, then it would have been normal, reliable, active and solid work on the bill. But after these few months today, we're getting a sloppy bill again. We have just heard from the President, actually from the rapporteur, about the number of amendments tabled, again and again, the following. He did not say that amendments were also tabled at the first meeting, that, in fact, every committee meeting had been amended, to the extent that the chairman of the committee, a member of law and justice, said: enough, not in such a procedure. Further meetings of the second reading were postponed. Today we have a special procedure and we find out again that Law and Justice are proposing further amendments, or actually the government is proposing them. The government worked on this project a few years ago, long years ago, and today it says it's all kind of a basketball game. We're rewriting the same thing. Such a solid, tedious job. We have just heard from the House of Law and Justice what a wonderful project this is: this is a new step in energy transformation. I'll say maybe a step or a half step, but back, not forward, looking at the whole project, the records of this bill. That's what it looks like from the procession position on this bill. It's another drop-off, and it's a shame, because it was possible to work properly in committee as well as here at the Sejm's meetings. And the procedure we're talking about today is a procedure that hasn't been used in a dozen years. Second reading of the second reading of the revised project, right? This wasn't in the Seym for a long time, but maybe we can use this procedure to work on the next laws. Of course, we all said in the first, second reading, that this draft law is needed, that it provides some solutions in the direction. He doesn't close the case, absolutely not. For this, further steps are needed and more things needed to be covered and saved in some way. It should also be made clear that we are discussing a draft law, which is a notification of EU law. So these are concrete records, very well cut, implemented, and we are to move them into Polish legislation. And the government can't do that after many years of working on this bill. Of course, the finale of what we have repeatedly emphasized here, and what we are talking about as the flag of this law, are these intelligent meters that are to appear. The point is that the user, the beneficiary, the last person in the system, is really supposed to know how much energy he used and how to manage it. But, ladies and gentlemen, this information is sensitive data. The Civic Platform, the Civic Coalition Club, submitted three amendments at second reading. The first concerned sensitive data. It was about their proper security, what the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection demanded of the government. We brought it in, we managed to push it through. The second amendment concerned the submission of information on the use of funds from the CO emission rights auction Marshal, a few seconds, please. We're putting together an appropriate... A few. ...a separate project. The next amendment we tabled concerns what? It concerns a fatal record which limits competition in the trading of energy sources. It cannot be that suddenly there are regulations enshrined in the article. 38, of which the Supreme Court says they are unclear. On 21 January, the court gives such an assessment, and we move on to the agenda. We are making an amendment to remove these additional unclear provisions of the bill, so that this system is transparent, transparent, so that the President of the Energy Regulatory Office can use the current provisions and conduct this process fairly and honestly. Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Coalition Club will support this provision of the bill. We're hoping... Good. ...that the amendments tabled, including this amendment tabled today, will be adopted by the committee and by the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u128	We're not sure about that, but thank you for the vote. And the amendment? Mr. Marshal, thank you for your vigilance. Sir, we are vigilant and intelligent marshals. You're welcome. Thank you very much. And modest. And modest. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u129	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased, on behalf of the Coalition Left Club, to present a position regarding the government's draft amendment to the Energy Law, print No. 808 and further prints that concern this project. And I immediately calm down - the club of the Left will support this project, because the question of... Whew... ...energy is a key issue in terms of economic development in Poland. We have great complaints about the Law and Justice and the government that it's all happening so late. I would like to point out that, as far as the work on this project is concerned, it has been going on for over two years. All this could have been done before. The plus is, of course, that Law and Justice and the government are awakening from this energy lethargy, because as I look at Minister Tchórzewski, this acceleration is now - in a moment we will talk about the CO emissions trading law But, as I say, it's a good thing that this is already happening, and it's a good thing that this bill is actually being processed today, although, like my previous speaker said, we're a little surprised at the second reading, the second reading, because you're making some adjustments at the moment, and so it doesn't turn out that they're really important amendments turning this whole project upside down. But I hope it doesn't. We note as a club that in this act there are some very important things that we have sought and are very important from the point of view of the development of the electricity grid in Poland. Namely, first of all, there is a question of energy storage. This is a technology that needs to develop in parallel with increasing the number of renewables. Therefore, these warehouses are very important and today we absolutely need to support this technology. Another thing is the issue of smart grids and measuring with smart meters 80% recipients. There is a very ambitious plan, and we did not learn during the committee meeting how it will be implemented and what it will be... i.e., the costs are estimated, that is the amount of approx. 11,12 billion, but again the question who will pay for it. Just so we're clear, he's probably gonna pay the final recipient for it. Finally, there is a question of limiting the signing of contracts outside the company - it was really in the interest of the customer that we had to do, because unfortunately there were many abuses. It is a question of protecting the rights of the customer, it is a question of strengthening the Energy Regulatory Office, it is a question of action related to the limitation of network losses. These are the things that have appeared in this bill, and there is no doubt that this is absolutely a very good direction. However, there is also a very important issue in all this concerning investment in electricity grids. Of course, this law does not naturally resolve this, but we note that the information we have today is appalling. Energy companies restrict investment in electricity grids, so, although this law provides for facilitation and acceleration in connection issues, it may not be possible to achieve these connections because of the constraints on investments in medium and low voltage networks, which are so important for the development of renewable energy sources, for the development of the entire Prosumer market. [[♪ The bell ♪]] To conclude, this law is heading in the right direction and the Left Club will support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u130	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. That's right. If you agree with all of us, perhaps I will ask Mrs Joanna Mucha. Mr. Marshal! It's all right, it's all right, even the narrow passage we have here. It's the same as it was. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u131	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This bill is very important, but it's badly processed - I'll give you that. I do not know, at the moment we are creating some lex specialis when it comes to proceding: some referral before the second reading back to committee, amendments, today we hear that there are still amendments, but not tabled by opposition clubs, but by the government alone, there are still amendments tabled. This shows a lack of determination and a lack of courage when it comes to energy. This concerns the transformation of the energy system, these changes are happening quite quickly, and they will be even faster, because this is the specificity of the progress of humanity, also in the area of energy. It's a lack of courage... It's a lack of courage. You guys do it so you don't really do anything. The effects of this are visible today. Coal was supposed to be for another 200 years, but it turns out it can't be done, so you figured something had to be changed slowly and you're trying to do it. But there's no decision here. How much is said about these smart meters that will allow us to manage energy consumption, which should have an impact - whether they will - it will prove - on rational energy management, reducing energy consumption... There are a lot of things to do with this. It is very important and important to introduce this so that everyone can observe how much energy is consumed, how it is accounted for, but on the other hand it cannot be used to pocket electricity suppliers, and very often it is observed. It could have been done a long time ago. Today we're having trouble running this... This lack of courage is visible at every energy bill. There is also no modernity. I think that if our predecessors approached innovation in this way, the wheels wouldn't have been invented until today. Think, think, 'cause you're probably the only club that works so brakely when it comes to energy, about the energy system. The magazines we are talking about here, whether renewable energy in general, the way it is produced, transmitted, collected - all this needs to be watched, seen in which direction the world is going, what science is saying, and at what pace progress is taking, and simply not to be afraid to enter into this modernity. We will also support these solutions, because they are needed, only there are a number of doubts as to whether this will be properly used, because the fact that so far the collector has come and every 1 month or every 2 months read the counter or that he has come once a year and the promotion has been charged, and then it turns out that there is an overpayment has been questioned for a long time. We will have to wait until 2028 for this to be introduced. Why is it so important? Today we are talking about the prosumer system, which is about producing energy for ourselves, about sending this energy back to the grid, downloading it. It must be dynamic and flexible. Without such counters and such a method of accounting, we are not able to develop the prosumer system - and this is very important. People want to produce electricity for themselves, for the state, for their neighbours, so the Polish People's Party, Mr. Marshal, will support this project, but at the same time we regret the way in which the energy system in our country is proceding and lacking. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you, sir. It follows that the Polish People's Party will support this project with regret. Good. I'm sorry. We support you, but we're not happy. They're not happy, yes. No enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u132	We're not happy. And Gowin's here already? I don't think so. There you go, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u133	Thank you. Oh, excuse me. Excuse me, Member, my mistake. You can change the order. Yes? Is that okay? Because Mr Winnicki should now... Excuse me, sir, one more time. There you go. But you... Ah, the Member is. Dear Marshal, High Seym! I am pleased to present the position of Poland 2050 on Energy Law. Ladies and gentlemen! What needs to be highlighted at the outset and at the beginning is simply a ridiculous procedure. We cannot really accept this, nor go on the agenda over such situations, in which in some strangely re-created parliamentary procedure we are about to see amendments, which are, after all, amendments to a very important law. I have a request for your marshal because a few moments ago, your marshal has been corrected. I would very much like to ask, as far as possible, for these amendments to be submitted to us as soon as possible. The situation that we get amendments, which sometimes have a lot of sides, at the committee meeting and we have to decide whether we are in favour of these amendments or against them, in the case of really very important matter and really very difficult matter, is simply absolutely unacceptable. We all know what this project is about - a single definition of storage, storage, removal of double charging of network charges, clear definition of licensing rules, total exclusion from the obligation to have a storage tariff, etc., etc. These are all very important changes, these are all very good changes, changes that we will vote for. Today we have the impression that, of course, you are giving us this law a few tools to carry out an energy transformation. But it's not a transformation. Worse yet, you don't carry out this transformation. We are in such a situation today that we have to make a change in Copenhagen in our energy, a change that will just be total. All the changes that are proposed in this bill actually look like some kind of cosmetic, like powdering a problem. We have two decades to carry out the transformation of the Polish energy system, we have two decades to achieve energy neutrality. I know you'll say more than two decades, but in my opinion, two decades is absolutely maximum time. Ladies and gentlemen, this only gives our children 50%. the probability that the climate disaster is not going to happen. This is playing with the lives of our children - our children and our grandchildren. It's only a 50-percent probability that the climate disaster isn't going to happen. If this government doesn't start changing our energy immediately, you're gonna lose another precious month, God forbid, years, to carry out this profound transformation. Energy based on an atom won't be a magic wand. You're trying to convince people that the transition to an atom will solve all our problems. That's not gonna happen. The next generation is looking forward to a clear declaration from the government: the departure from coal, the date of departure and the way of departure from coal, how the government intends to decarbonise the district heating sector. Careful estimates say that this is 40 billion PLN, some say that even ten times more. How do you want to replace the currently functioning heating infrastructure with more than 70% based on coal? What shield programs do you propose for the miners? What's the plan to put out the mine? When is this supposed to be done? What about the transmission networks? Really, any area of energy we touch, there's an immediate need for change everywhere, and that's not on your side. You don't do that. I would like to say that we have proposed such changes on our green trail. We are talking about the fact that by 2030 we want a 45% reduction in gas emissions, by 2040 - a complete departure from coal and, as far as possible, in 2050 - the achievement of climate neutrality. We recommend you our document on the green trail. There is a great deal of information about how to carry out this process. It's a shame the government is really into cosmetics, not real energy transformation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u134	Thank you very much. I do not need to pass this on, Mrs Suski, because the head of the committee is in the Chamber. He listened to you, and I'm sure he'll be able to help you with this procedural matter. I invite Mr Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation. And I apologize for changing the order.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u135	It's okay. Even better, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! I wasn't supposed to speak on this, because the bill is generally technical. However, unfortunately, despite the technicality of this law, ideology has again entered the Parliamentary Chamber, and this ideology is fundamentally false, which Mrs Mucha found her crowning in her speech. So, ladies and gentlemen, let's go over the facts. Nobody - there are no such political forces in this House, and practically all political forces in the country are represented, unless there has been a Parliament as representative as the current one since 1991 - does not oppose a meaningful energy transition, renewable energy sources, as long as they are put in place wisely, wisely, according to the interests of consumers, according to the interests of the country. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, let's stop spreading propaganda here. I know it's enough for a couple of people to go on a climate strike and you're running around just to get your support, but stop talking nonsense like some country can do climate neutrality on its own. Climate is a global issue. The climate will not change even if the European Union as a whole achieves climate neutrality at a record rate. And let's say it once and for all: Poland produces less than 1% carbon dioxide in the world, the whole of the European Union is about 10% carbon dioxide in the world. And once and for all, let's say that the biggest increases in carbon dioxide emissions are in the countries of Africa, Asia, South America, in fast-growing countries, that the biggest increases in recent decades are in China because of the rapid industrialisation, due to the radical economic growth, the rise in living standards. Let us also be clear that contrary to what Mrs Mucha said, the only solution for developing countries is nuclear energy. There is no mechanism for today, apart from the proposal to return to the Stone Age, in terms of technology, to give these countries the opportunity to develop. Poland should also be given the opportunity to develop if it is to roll coal as you wish. Ladies and gentlemen! It's not replaceable at all, it's not an alternative at all. I came over last time a lady in the U-house in the Seym got stuck to the door. They stuck to the door, organized a protest and demanded climate neutrality. I asked them, "How do you imagine that? Where do we get the energy we need? You all have the iPhones in your hands. For them to be produced, energy consumption was needed for them to work, energy needed for you to live a comfortable life, energy needed for all of this. How to get it, if you know that RES today cannot provide stable power for industry, for large urban centres, for agglomerations. There is no such technology, ladies and gentlemen. You'll read... There's no such thing as technology. I read your green trail. This is a collection of godly wishes, fantasies, not what is real, honourable Member. Like every other... And what did those climate activists say about that? They said it wasn't theirs to point out how to do it. They have a postulate, and that's the way it's supposed to be. Just like that. Eliminate carbon, don't introduce an atom, it's all green. I say, throw those iPhones, get dressed in leather, take the spears into your hand, and this is your world. This is your world. Do not produce modern drugs and try to survive in the bush. This is your world you're calling for. And just because you're surrounded by a technology that draws a lot of energy in the middle of big cities, which are the biggest energy eaters, and your comforts consume that energy, you don't want to admit it anymore. And yes, ladies and gentlemen. Poland should reject EU regulations because they are completely inadequate to Polish specificities. We should change our energy mix, increase our share of RES, there are already 30 years of delays in nuclear energy, we need to build, but at our pace, not the pace imposed by ideologists from the European Commission, which makes Europe an economically uncompetitive area for other regions in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u136	Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. I invite Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak from the Parliamentary Club coalition Poland to ask question No. 1.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u137	Question number one. I don't know how many they're gonna be. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We've got plenty of energy. The world is full of energy, but we need to learn to use it, to use the latest methods, to manage it, to transform it in any way, and the energy problem will not be, the world will not have a problem with energy, but we must use it rationally. In this bill, we have a problem with the collections. They're not gonna walk because the subscription bill was on the pretext that you have to pay the bills. My question: Will electricity bills decrease? And how much? Today the prosumer mainly pays for all these additional costs that we should eliminate, because they are often much higher than energy consumption itself. And secure the personal data that will be. It's very dangerous. I'm surprised the government's just raising this problem right now, because it's just like the last bill when we were discussing transport. This is very dangerous and very dangerous and we need to be clear about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u138	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u139	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! I wanted to ask the Minister about the position of the Supreme Court of 19 January 2021, which he expressed in the context of these provisions of the Agreement, indicating that the new regulations do not provide clear guidelines in which situations the President of the URE should exercise his powers and in which circumstances he should not. I say this in the context of the changes that I have made in my report on the issue of concessions by the President of the URE, that the current records are sort of adapted by tightening the screw, and it is inconclusive how the President is to behave. How will its activities be assessed in the context of the award of concessions? Will they be lawful or not? In this respect, the President of the Court spoke - as I said earlier - on 19 January 2021. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u140	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Like my predecessor, I wanted to ask you about the assessment of the letter of the President of the Supreme Court, which issued a negative assessment of the proposal to amend the article. 38 laws. This over-freedom appears not justified in the context of the detailed establishment of the rules for the establishment of the asset collateral. Although the new regulations do not include existing concession holders, entrepreneurs who are planning to apply for a concession for trading in energy sources in the near future must accept these proposals with concern. Has the government, following the introduction of the energy package in 2016 - in practice led to the extinction of many companies operating in the energy market - again intends to tighten the rules on the granting of energy marketing permits?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u142	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u143	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to ask the Minister a question. The law that we are currently investigating is commonly referred to as the counter law. There is a fairly common belief that it was created for the purposes of electricity trading companies - it is intended to make it easier for them to control the accounts of customers. I ask the Minister to present in a summary today also other advantages of this law - those related to COVID, as well as those relating to electricity consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u144	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u145	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Smart metering is a necessity at the moment. We must be aware that such solutions will be more and more accessible when it comes to our social and economic lives. There's no need to be afraid of that. Changes in this area will be at an ever higher level. It is very important that we do not forget about the protection of personal data in all this so that all data that is in the clouds, in the virtual world, is properly secured. This bill proposes a dozen changes. For me, it is extremely important what it will be like to account for prosumers, for how long they will be able to use the energy they produce themselves, and what will happen if this period passes. I appeal once again to lean on it and consider (the bell) the release of prosumers from the so-called. the power charge. It is in our interest that as many people as possible, as many different groups want to invest in this way the use of energy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] And who's gonna add to that?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u146	Thank you. Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Thank you, Madam President. That's too bad. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Thank you, too. Mr Mirosław Suchoń is following in the footsteps of your messenger. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will ignore all aspects related to the length of the procedure over this law and the subsequent amendments that are still being tabled here today, but as far as the substance is concerned, the mere control of the level of energy consumption by consumers is a very right idea. This will, on the one hand, save energy globally and, on the other hand, hopefully, reduce the electricity bill that consumers pay. On the other hand, I would like to mention what was already in this Chamber during the discussions raised several times. It is a question of data security - but these are sensitive data - about what hours the consumer uses energy. They should therefore be subject to maximum protection. I appeal to the parliamentary majority to accept the amendments tabled by the Civic Coalition. In our view, they will guarantee safety. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u148	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! For me, the most important in this regulation, which is in fact the implementation of the 2016 Winter Package. - that's when the first work on the introduction of smart metering started - it is that the consumer's position, which is weaker - I am talking about the final consumer in particular - in relation to the various institutions, including energy suppliers, is good. I very much commend, among others. prohibition of the conclusion of sales contracts outside the premises of traders. I think this is extremely important. The second issue is about smart meters and the protection of personal data. It is de facto all data related to intelligent measurement. This is data collection. These data relate to the profile of the consumer concerned, his activity, his collection. On this basis you can obtain many different, so to speak, information that can also be valuable to the criminal world. From this point of view, it is extremely important (the Bell) to store these data. I would therefore like to ask the ministers: Who will be responsible, so to speak, for the proper storage, operation and processing of these data? We need to be sure that by adopting this law, we do not put consumers, citizens in trouble. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u150	Thank you. Mr Adam Szłapka, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u151	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The debate on the Energy Law Act is the best time to ask about the biggest scam, the biggest energy compromise that took place during the rule of law and justice. There are people here who are responsible for this scam - I am talking about Ostrołęka - among others. Minister Tchórzewski. Today it is estimated that the losses suffered by Poles amount to PLN 1.5 to 2 billion, but this is probably not all. I would therefore like to ask the Minister, the rapporteur, here, what will be the cost of breaking contracts with construction companies that have been contracted to build this compromising investment. I want to ask you and you personally what the cost of breaking power contracts will be, because I'm sure these contracts have been signed as well. What will be the cost of breaking contracts with coal companies for contracted coal? We know that the first deliveries to Ostrołęka have already taken place, so these are also additional costs. What will be the global cost of this scam, the (Bingle) of the embarrassment for which you and everyone on this side of the room are responsible?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u152	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u153	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, This law sets out the definition of energy storage facilities. I'd like to ask you about the home energy stores. As part of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management on the programme, my current 3.0 is talking about the possibility to finance home energy storage and home electric car chargers. Will these solutions come into force? Whether it will be within the amount of the grant itself, as so far it has been under the programme 5 000. zł for photovoltaic installation, will this be additional financial means? And second question: How will this law affect the labour market in connection with the planned replacement of more than 11 million counters (The Bell) of remote reading? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u154	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, who is also in the parliamentary club of the Left, like Mr Tomaszewski. You're welcome, sir. We're curious about the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u155	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! I was, I am, and I will be at the parliamentary club of the Left, so I would like to calm down. On the other hand, the question concerns the issue of meters and records regarding the number of smart meters to be installed. There's a plan to get 15% by the end of 2023. the customers had these counters installed. Assuming that we have nearly 18 million customers in Poland, we are talking about 2,2,5 million customers who should have installed these meters. The question is, how many today, according to the information provided by the Minister and the Ministry, are these meters already installed in the electricity grid? And the second thing: Does the Ministry hold talks about the production of these meters in Poland? Because it's going to be a very big undertaking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u156	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, parliamentary club of the Left. What did you guys do one by one, huh? Yeah, 'cause we're always together. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u157	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Digitisation of the energy sector is a necessity and we must be aware of it. Because when we look at the state of computerization of Polish energy in Poland today, we can say that we are at the gray end of Europe. Up to 80% by 2028 Households will have smart meters, and according to Poland's energy policy by 2040 the energy transformation will require the involvement of about PLN 1.5 trillion. This is a big challenge. I would therefore like to ask the Minister to provide written information on whether a consultation has been conducted on the impact of the transformation of digital energy on the individual recipient and whether the individual recipient will be protected against any hacking of his data on the counter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u158	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dariusz Rosati, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u159	Dear Marshal, High Seym! The discussion of changes in the Energy Law is, ladies and gentlemen, a good opportunity to talk about some of the omissions that the Law and Justice Government has committed. The state introduced five years ago changes in the laws governing wind energy, resulting in virtually a complete freeze of wind energy development. Of course, production continued in highly carbon intensive and energy-intensive coal power plants. I have a question for the Minister. Do you have valuations - and in any case I would like to ask for such valuations - about how that decision has slowed down the pace of moving away from coal energy and reducing emissions? And second question: How did that decision affect the increase in electricity bills, household bills? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I understand that this may be a question that you do not have an answer to at the moment, so I ask you to answer these questions in writing. I would also like to say that the amendment tabled by Mr Tchórzewski - Mr Marshal, the last sentence - is in fact an attempt to annul the vote which took place in the committee at second reading, because this amendment aims to reject the amendment adopted in the committee vote. So I suggest that you do not consider this amendment at all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u160	That was the proposal Mr Rosati made. And right now, Mr Robert Winnicki from the Confederate circle. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u161	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will answer for Mr Tchórzewski: this decision had no impact on price increases, because the rise in electricity prices in Poland is a consequence of the European Union's policy, it is a consequence of the European Union's climate policy. But there's growth. And if you, the Minister, look at the reality in the country that is pushing these windmills, you will see the energy crisis in Germany in the winter of this year, you will see the complete failure of energy policy. You will see that the Germans must increase their capacity in coal-fired power plants because they have made two nonsense decisions to withdraw from the atom and at the same time put everything on the windmills together. The effect is that they are short-lived and must increase traditional smoking in coal-fired power plants. And that's the effect (the bell) of ideological policy instead of pragmatic policy. The Germans are falling over it, Sweden is falling this year too, because it suddenly snowed because suddenly there was no sun. Turns out there's no wind, no sun, and all the green energy is down and doesn't provide stable power. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u162	We have considered the state of the Swedish and German economies. And now Mr Janusz Kowalski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u163	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, 24 years ago the Energy Law was passed, and indeed it is in Article. 3 point 16 is a very important definition, the definition of energy security. Let this discussion today also move us all to think about which direction we are going as the Republic of Poland, because the plan is being implemented - and I say this on behalf of Solidarna Polska - which in fact means the loss of energy security in the next 3, 5, 7 years for ideological reasons. A situation in which in 15 years we want to consume 40 billion m Mr President, I am so sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking to the Members of the Civic Coalition, and you are always nervous about how badly someone treats you, and rightly so. So also take someone from PiS seriously and politely. There you go. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in terms of energy security and leaning over this law, which was passed 24 years ago, I believe that there should be a trans-political consensus on this matter, because the situation in which we implement the ideological policy of the European Union and move away from Polish coal for Russian gas is very dangerous for energy security. And this definition of the law - energy law unfortunately at the moment is already out of date. As Solidarna Polska we will act for energy sovereignty and we will defend Polish coal, because the direction also chosen by the Ministry of Climate... I value my colleagues very much, but this is unfortunately an absolutely wrong direction. Indeed, it is enough to read the reports of the German regulatory authority, the accounting court, which treats the German Energiewende. This is absolutely a dangerous situation for us. In a few years we will run out of our own electricity, produced in Poland, we will depend exclusively on imports of energy from Germany, Scandinavia, and certainly on imports of a large amount of gas. This is a dangerous situation and on this issue, ladies and gentlemen, we should seek consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u164	Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment of Minister Piotr Dziad. Five minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u165	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I would like to thank you very much for the positions of the clubs, which generally highlight the essence of the contested law. Of course, questions are also related to the bill, and good. If there are amendments, it means that we want to introduce the law as best as possible, as appropriate to the needs of the citizen and the functioning of the country. There are a lot of questions that have been asked. I'll try to answer that part. Other questions that have been asked will be answered in writing, as you wish. Nevertheless, I will try briefly, as far as possible and the time will allow, to answer the questions asked by your Members. The first question I have noted is: Will electricity bills change and if... They'll grow. Will they grow? Of course, they will change, but in our opinion they will not increase. This is the action of the consumer and the prosumer that appears, who will control it and will control its expenditure. That's why we're introducing this bill and smart metering to reduce the increase in electricity charges. There was a question asked by two representatives regarding the Supreme Court judgment, Art. 38. We asked the URE about the position of the Supreme Court in this case and URE replied to us that the purpose of the law was to clarify this obligation, which has existed for 20 years. The provision reflects the previous practice of the President of the URE. Clear and universal rules, safeguards work in favour of the market and result from further reduction of the grey area. As for the subject which was taken up by Minister Tchórzewski regarding the presentation of the advantages of the bill, there are plenty of advantages of this law, ladies and gentlemen. We recommend it as a law that is very important for the development of the electricity sector. It is such a basis, a starting point for the transformation of the electricity sector based, among others. on digitalization, smart grids, smart meters, about which so much has already been said here, and security. It enables us to directly integrate renewable energy sources into the system and exploit the synergies of the whole sector. In addition, it gives us some opportunity to increase the flexibility of the energy system and the potential of all electricity consumers. As far as the next question is concerned - I see that my time is running very quickly - which has been important and repeated many times, it is a question of the security of personal data. He's running like always. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Piotr Dziadzio: Of course I do. The Act explicitly introduces the energy market information operator, which is established to protect personal data so that these personal data do not leak to be protected. I repeat to you once again that the provision is designed so that these data will be protected. As for the exchange of meters and how the exchange of meters will look like, we already have about 3 million meters installed today. Another point that has been raised here is whether the Ministry of Climate and Environment cares that these counters are and can be replaced. Yes, Polish entrepreneurs are ready to immediately produce smart metering meters. I can see my time is up, but I've basically answered all the questions that were asked, so thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. If you remember anything, you can always answer in writing. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Piotr Dziadzio: Of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u166	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the committee of Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Despite the various perturbation and controversy that is taking place in the case of this law, I hope that at this session the Sejm will end its proceedings over it. I think it's going to be a very important bill that we're all going to be happy with. I therefore warmly thank you for the often difficult but very substantive discussion on this law. I would like to remind you, because here there were different dates, that the first draft of this law appeared already in 2012, so, in fact, if we look at the time of its entry into force, it is one of the longer-term legal acts. However, I would like to stress that it is very correct, necessary and that is why I am very pleased that we are concluding this law. I would also like to stress that it is not that Law and Justice - our club and our government - is simply in love with coal energy. We are simply looking very real at the possibilities of our country. And if we are to refer now to what has happened here, which concerns Ostrołęka, it was related to the coal-department negotiated in the European Commission by 2060 and the exit by 2049, which involved additional money which the European Commission proposed to Poland. Therefore, even if some losses occur as a result of the switch from coal to gas power plants in Ostrołęka, in these negotiations we have obtained, however, when we look at our final result, more than PLN 50 billion more than we would have achieved if we followed the old agreement, an agreement signed with the European Commission. It was in force and it could be maintained, but yet the additional money that flows to Poland gives the chance that Poland can implement more and more modern energy earlier. So that's what this is about. Of course, this acceleration is also a challenge for all of us. It is a huge effort in terms of investment in order to maintain energy security. I agree, I understand the doubts of Mr Winnicki and others who are wondering if we have a chance to do so. I think we have a chance, but this effort needs to be taken very hard. And again, talking about how we're in love with coal and so on. I would like to stress, ladies and gentlemen, that everyone was wondering how to convince the Polish society to renewable energy, but I will say immeasurably that I succeeded. My current has taken up so much that in 1.5 years for 1 billion PLN of support Polish citizens have built almost 1500 MW of photovoltaic capacity worth 6 billion PLN. So the citizens went evenly with you and agreed to help with all of this... Guys, guys, guys, guys, It's hard to say right now and make such an accusation that it shouldn't be. In this way we have actually convinced the public to renewable energy, that it is worth it, because it paid off for them. And the windy one... So let's face it, we're doing everything we can to make the best of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u168	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. As amendments to the proposed bill were tabled at second reading, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the Emissions Trading Scheme and certain other laws (prints Nos 1008 and 1061). I ask Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski to submit a report to the committee. But you have a day, sir. I've got it. I've got it. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Sejm Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets, I present a report to the committee on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the greenhouse gas emission trading scheme and certain other laws, print No 1061. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 15 March 2021, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed the above draft Print Act No 1008 to the Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets for First Reading. The Commission carried out its first reading by examining this draft law at its meeting on 29 March. Five substantive amendments were tabled to the draft law in order to calculate the compensation for 2020 on the basis of existing legislation and to allow for the conversion of emission reduction units into emission allowances by 30 April 2021. The Commission has accepted these amendments and asks the High House to adopt the draft law annexed to this report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u170	Thank you very much. But I will ask you to stay, sir, because you will speak again in a moment. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski will speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u171	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government draft law amending the Law on the greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme and certain other laws contained in print No 1008. This project complements the implementation of the EU ETS Directive, namely Directive 2003/87/EC, on a number of technical issues and its main issue is the implementation of the Modernisation Fund regulation into national law. The task of this new instrument is to support the achievement of energy and climate policy objectives by supporting the modernisation of energy systems in selected countries of the European Union. Poland is to be its biggest beneficiary. The Modernization Fund is powered by 2% of resources the pool of all allowances. The estimated share of Poland is up to PLN 20 billion in 2021-2030. The objectives for which funds can be allocated from the Modernisation Fund include the production and use of electricity from renewable energy sources, heating, energy storage and modernisation of energy networks, including pipelines belonging to heating systems and electricity grids. This includes the transformation of regions dependent on solid fossil fuels and the promotion of fair change and the financing of energy efficiency, including transport, construction, agriculture and waste. Another element of this project is the changes that allow the allocation of free emission allowances to entities that have been covered by the ETS. Once approved by the European Commission, it will be possible to adjust the number of emission allowances by the National Emission Balancing and Management Centre and to issue emission allowances to installation accounts in the Union registry on the basis of changes in levels of activity. The project provides that the management of funds from the Fund will be entrusted to the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and that the management of the system will be carried out by the Minister responsible for Climate Affairs. According to the project, the financing of investments modernising our energy system and improving energy efficiency will take place on the basis of priority programmes. High Izbo! The adoption of the Act is important for the legal stabilisation of installations covered by the ETS. It will contribute to modernising the energy system, to achieving the objectives set out in the energy policy adopted by the government, to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and to improving air quality. Thus, it will significantly improve the quality of life of Poles. Moreover, these investments will also have a positive impact on the economy, creating jobs and improving the competitiveness of Polish companies in the international arena. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I request that the proposed bill be adopted together with the amendments adopted by the relevant Parliamentary Committee and that it be further examined. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u172	Thank you very much. Mrs Urszula Zielińska, Green Party. Come on in. The Civic Coalition. I agreed with the messengers and members of this group - they asked me to introduce them to them. Thank you for your help, Mr Rosati, but I'm doing fine.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u173	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club - Civic Platform, Modern?, Polish Initiative, Greens vis-à-vis the government bill amending the Act on the greenhouse gas emissions trading system from prints no. 1008 and 1061. The aim of the EU directive, which is implemented by our law, is to help European countries, headed by Poland, in energy transformation and in achieving climate objectives. And the climate objectives, ladies and gentlemen, must be pursued everywhere and by all - faster and more effectively. We have less and less time to stop the spiraling droughts, floods, fires, water shortages, the extinction of fauna and flora, food shortages and migration of the population, which some of you are so afraid of. This is also extremely important for Poland, because we are the fourth largest producer of carbon dioxide in the Union and we are increasingly suffering from climate change. A few facts. The number of hot days and the number of fires in Poland are increasing systematically. Only in 2019 Poland was the third country most affected by fires in Europe, behind Spain and Portugal. Imagine this country. Longer and frequent heat waves in Poland have an impact on the increase in mortality due to cardiovascular failure, and the number of deaths in this context has increased five times since the 1960s in Poland. Health costs caused by the effects of climate change amounted to as much as PLN 56 billion between 2001 and 2010 and losses caused by atmospheric phenomena during this period - as much as PLN 90 billion. These costs are rising. This is why the bill under consideration today is so important. Firstly, it must improve the efficiency of the emissions trading system in reducing emissions. To this end, I quote directly from the directive, all revenues generated from auction allowances should be allocated to combating climate change. Not part of it. All of them. Secondly, the Directive provides that transparency in the use of revenues derived from auction allowances is essential. So the public needs to know what these funds are spent on. Thirdly, the novel introduces a very important new tool, a solidarity European budget, so-called. Modernization Fund for countries with the lowest incomes in Europe, mainly for Poland, because Poland will receive 43% from this fund its resources, i.e. at least PLN 20 billion for the next decade. This is a good solution and very much needed. Only now let's see how the Ministry of Climate and Environment implements this directive. First, it implements it with a 2-year delay, it should be implemented in October 2019. I checked what the climate minister was doing at the time, then Deputy Minister Michal Kurtyka. Instead of implementing the directive, the Minister was then at a meeting in Costa Rica, where he boasted of Polish achievements in electromobility. And the directive, which was to be implemented in 2019 and was to receive funds from January this year, was not implemented. And still, in April 2021, it's only on paper. So, just as electromobility is fiction, so the transformation of law and justice seems to be fiction, and the law in its present form does not guarantee transparency, nor does it provide funds from emissions trading for climate purposes. Nor does it guarantee real social participation in the distribution of funds from the Modernization Fund. And that's another problem. True, following the comments of the public, a provision introducing an obligation for preliminary consultation at the fund was added, but it did not specify what it was supposed to look like, who was to take part in it. That's what BAS pointed out. Let's move on. On the basis of these pseudo-consultation, NFOŚ is to draw up a list of programmes to be financed from the modernisation fund. The Climate Minister will submit this list to the consultative board set up by the government. Who will be part of the council? Experts, the social side, maybe scientists, absolutely not just the government. That's another serious problem. Therefore, as a club, in order to ensure transparency and to ensure that the social party participates in deciding this next, very important European Solidarity Fund, we amend this law at second reading, which will ensure and influence the participation of the social, scientific and, what is important, local governments in the disposal of this fund. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As a club, we also submit a separate bill that will ensure transparency. As a club, we will support this project if you guarantee that it will actually influence the reduction of emissions and society will take a real part in the transformation process, which is so, so quickly, so urgently needed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u174	Thank you very much. And the corrections? The most important thing... Not the most important thing, but... Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u175	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Left Club after the first reading of the draft law on CO2 emissions trading. Well, you can say that this is another example of the fact that Law and Justice have overslept. Let me remind you that the EU Emissions Trading Directive was adopted in 2018. As with many other energy laws, nothing was done at the time, and the effect is that not taking action makes the situation, as far as the price of electricity is concerned, even dramatic. Of course, one can say that the reason for this is that the prices of certificates are rising, because they are actually rising, today they are already over EUR 40. But it could be predicted that this would happen, because that was the idea when it came to the functioning of this system. Let me just remind you that this system has been in operation since 2005. Therefore, all governments after 2005 knew very well that the system was designed to reduce CO emissions. Just so we're clear, we're crossing CO limits. The draft law, of course by implementing the provisions of the directive, creates the so-called. the modernisation fund. Of course, this is a very good direction. This fund will cover the costs of building new sources, reducing CO emissions As far as the modernisation fund is concerned, the composition of the steering committee is specified in this proposal. In our view, however, there is a lack of a social side, at least industry representatives, energy representatives and manufacturers. This committee is in fact composed only of representatives of ministries, so it would be worth considering allowing professionals to assess any projects that will arise. Of course, as far as these investments are concerned - this information has already been mentioned here - in the near future we will probably need nearly PLN 100 billion for energy transformation. This fund will be in place until 2030, so we also note that the provisions of this law should be correlated with the provisions of Poland's Energy Policy by 2040, because it will most likely need to speed up operations. Since the fund will operate by 2030, also due to the new values that have emerged, i.e. reducing CO2 emissions to 40% by 2030, investment will probably also increase. Another thing, also a very important thing. Namely, it is also about correlation with the National Plan for Reconstruction, because there are also issues concerning the energy sector and a very important pillar on climate protection, and it would be worth noting this also in this draft law, so that these documents (the Bell), in short, are consistent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u176	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u177	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When I left, my colleagues asked me to say something clever about this bill. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Try it. We'll try. There you go. We'll try. This is an important act, but decisive action is also important. I was talking about it in my previous speech. There can't be any scams here: that we'll save something, that we'll have extra revenue in the budget. This money has to be used for energy transformation, it has to go to people or companies. And brag about how successful we are because we've got 1.5 GW in photovoltaics... It was people who did it, which is what it shows -- here I'm going back to what I said before -- that you can. We've talked about this a long time ago. It was only during the last year that the acceleration occurred because some realized that this could not continue and this is the way to nowhere. But people did. And today all you have to do is show the people of single-family homes that there is support that there is a will that no one will block, just spend little money on it, and as for the rest - people are willing, because about it... It didn't happen today. For several years now, since the issue of installing energy devices producing energy for prosumer and all these solutions, Poles are willing. Depending on the survey, 70-80% Poles supported these solutions and wanted to do so, only this was blocked. If he still doesn't like it here, if we're up to it, because the Union is forcing us, then we'll do something if we just blame the Union, because the price of emission allowances is high, then we'll keep stepping on the spot. But life already teaches us, shows us that we can do it. After all, these proposals were, you once supported the Prosumer programme, supposed to be fixed tariffs. We agreed on this together. Maybe it wasn't perfect, but we had to go in that direction, we'd be five years ahead. In the meantime, you've blocked it. It is good that these solutions are there at the moment, but there are many others out there, and you need to draw them out, you need to listen to what others say, maybe smarter than those who decide, because there are smarter people in Poland - I mean scientists - and see in which direction it should go. That is why I call for the resources that will come - they are not that big - to be fully devoted to supporting the changes that are taking place in our energy system. This is important. Here today such statements were made: we must save our planet, leave something to our children, our grandchildren. In the meantime, we're out of perspective. We're doing this for today, for a term of office, so that there's support, that you don't put yourself in danger, that you don't take decisive action. That is why, throughout the whole system of laws relating to energy change, we must always have in mind and vision of change, because it is not only about stabilising what is and responding to what is already happening, but also about forward-looking thinking. We will support all these solutions, but we also ask, because we have a number of projects that we have reported or will we report, so that you do not reject them, but move forward. Because today is a prosumer case - prosumer produces electricity, but it also creates conditions for the energy system in its entirety, because 20% the unused electricity he gives away for free. Do you, uh, make money on a prosumer, a citizen? He's making money. Question the other way: Does he get anything for it? So we'll propose here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Some changes, because they're needed. Life has already shown that many beneficial changes can be made. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u178	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Circle of the Polish Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u179	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! We are discussing a law that has, which is the consequence of EU energy policy, a policy that we have consistently criticised for many years. Not because we are against environmental protection, but because we are against destroying the economy under the motto of environmental protection. The only thing that has so far led to the EU's energy policy is to emigration industry outside the European Union. Recently, in times of pandemic, especially in the context of drug safety, we have seen how much this policy is being revenged strategically in Europe. All countries in the world, these serious, important ones, care to develop their industry and maintain their independence in key strategic sectors. You can't do this without having your energy-intensive industries. An EU policy leading to an increase in electricity prices, an increase in heat prices, an increase in energy prices for industry directly leads to the finishing of energy-intensive industries and the obstruction of costs for other industries. The project we are discussing today is designed to partially mitigate these effects. The fact that a special law and a special fund are being created within the European Union, and this law will help to spend it - a modernisation fund, shows that both the Eurocrats and the Polish government understand what they are doing. They're destroying the economy and they're trying to ease it. Resolve in what way? The only way they know is to put in money to ease the pain, mitigate the losses associated with the increase in energy costs and the energy transformation itself. The method of reducing costs is alien to them, but where they increase costs, they want to spend money by believing in their power. The amounts on the paper look impressive, let's say a few numbers. The funds from the modernisation fund are to be allocated to countries with GDP per capita below 60% of the EU average. Between the 10 countries of the European Union, 2% of the sales are to be distributed the total pool of emission allowances, i.e. so-called. EU ETS. Poland is to receive as much as 43% the available pot. This was presented to us as the success of negotiating Prime Minister Morawiecki. He did not mention this, he did not boast much that in December 2020 he agreed to increase the CO reduction targets. But let's get back to our modernization fund. The final of these accounts, calculations presented to us by the Eurocrats and the Polish government is such that 20 billion PLN is to be distributed. The costs of the entire energy transition are estimated at the amount of the government's larger size. So let us make it clear to the Polish people: what the Union gives us for the sunshine, for the relief of the pain associated with the costs it will generate, is probably not even 1/10 of the costs. He's sitting here in front of me in front of the Deputy Minister, who was responsible for these cases when he was in the government, and he could tell us what the real, undisclosed public figures are about how much it's gonna cost us. What amazes me in principle is that the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management is the operator of the modernization fund. As a live one, I am not sure that it is an institution prepared to implement the operational financing of energy transformation in Poland. I'd really like it to be that way. I wish you all good workers of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, but it seems to me that so far they have been less focused on energy transformation and more on the environment and water management. The last thing I'm talking about is the price of allowances. They have grown to EUR 42 in March this year. These prices are not controlled, they have become the subject of speculation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This speculation, this rise in prices, is a promise of an increase in the cost of heat and electricity production in Poland, a promise of an economic disaster that they bring to us The European Union and the Polish government, boasting of alleged successes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u180	Thank you very much. Mr Winnicki ate the time, so we greet Mr Winnicki. Permission granted. And we invite Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u181	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that the government wants to adopt the principle of spending money from the Modernization Fund only 3 years after the publication of the directive establishing this fund. It's late, but you finally got something out of each other. However, I am extremely concerned that this will be another important tool for the economy, which should help us modernise this economy by transforming it into new energy sources, but knocked off board will not help much. The explanatory memorandum states that the calling to life of the Modernization Fund is a momentous moment. I already talked about it at the committee meeting. This importance is due to the fact that the estimates of the Ministry of Climate and Environment show that by 2030 you will only allocate PLN 20 billion to these objectives. How much could you do? Even PLN 170 billion, because it is estimated that so much revenue from the auction of emission allowances will be affected by 2030. The European Emissions Trading System is a really growing source of budget revenue at the moment, because what some appalled members of the government are saying is the cost to the economy, but the revenue to the government that you are squandering. For this reason, 11 billion PLN was paid to the state budget in 2019, 12 billion PLN in 2020, and this year it could be up to 17 billion PLN. The Emissions Trading Directive states that at least half of these resources should be earmarked for specific purposes. That's for example. reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, development of RES, promotion of energy efficiency. Today, Poland has absolutely no plan, not even a set of strategies, such as these growing budget revenues, make sense to help the Polish economy and Polish citizens to combat the growing cost of life and the growing uncompetitiveness of the Polish economy. In the latest report on spending revenues from the European Emissions Trading System, which Poland sent to the Commission in 2019, we read that environmental expenditure was spent, among others. PLN 283 million for exemption from excise duty of energy from RES, PLN 500 million for aid for rail transport. The Ministry of Energy allocated a little over 1 billion to support renewable energy producers, corresponding to the market value of green certificates surrendered in 2018. In short, a grab of expenditure that does not come from any coherent energy transition planning. It's time to change that. The explanatory memorandum of the Act also states that the Energy Transformation Fund is planned to be set up, which would be powered by the funds obtained from the sale by auction of 40%. the annual volume of emission allowances. This is not even a minimum, which the European Commission points out, because I will remind you that the Commission is talking about 50%. I ignore the fact that there is little at all in the explanatory memorandum about the fund and that you have not presented a legal document on this matter at all. Poland 2050 calls for energy transformation 100% the funds obtained from the sale of licences by auction. In addition, the government should present as soon as possible a comprehensive plan of the projects that the Fund will finance. Auction revenues alongside the new budget of the European Union and the National Reconstruction Plan are a huge opportunity to rebuild Polish energy and should be used for this purpose. Otherwise, we will continue to discuss the growing costs of electricity in Poland, the increasing costs of life of Poles and Poles and the less competitive economy. We can also talk about more and more (the bell) growing imports, importing electricity from abroad, because there electricity is cheaper, just a question of where your big heads and dreams of energy sovereignty of our country. As I said at the committee meeting, I make one amendment, which is crucial and important for the whole process, which would make it 100% money from the sale of emission rights will affect the relevant objectives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u182	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. I'm setting the time to ask questions for one minute. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Parliamentary Club - I forgot the name - Coalition Poland. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u183	Coalition Poland. I know, Mr. Marshal, that you wanted me to do it again. Yeah, I've been dreaming about it. Coalition Poland. I have a question because we are talking about energy transformation here, at this very moment about the prices of emission allowances, and we still hear somewhere in the background that all the misfortunes about electricity prices that affect Poles, industry, are linked to the rising price of emission allowances. My questions: Does the government have any simulations, or does it predict whether it is observing what will continue to happen with emission allowances prices? How will this affect the price of electricity? Is there a position in the government at the club yet? Because it was said that there would be no increase in prices, and it turns out that there is, and these percentages are also different: 8%, 10%. How much will the price of electricity increase for individual consumers? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How do you predict what your vision is? Because it's going to increase, it's certain, you're already assuming and talking about it going up, just how much? We'd like to know how much. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u184	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u185	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Yeah, that's the question that's pressing on the mouth at the very entrance here, on this bleacher: How much longer will the price of energy increase in the near future? How much longer can you protect Poles when it comes to some compensation related to what is happening? I'm not thinking about physical compensation. I'm thinking about the investment you should do. But the basic question is, Minister. Today we are really talking about big money, about those coming from the Modernization Fund, to the Modernization Fund, about those that constitute the revenue of the State from the auction of allowances from CO emissions. And I have another question: why is the government afraid? [[♪ The bell ♪]] present here, in the Seym, to the Poles how many of these funds have been affected, what have they been allocated to, and what is the effect of spending these funds? We tried to do it in the bill when we were debating the Energy Law Act. The government is still holding back, Law and Justice is throwing these amendments away. Yes, we will make a specific proposal to your marshal, a specific amendment, she is already prepared. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u186	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the Minister to explain the economic importance of the possibility of maintaining the exchange of emission reduction units for emission allowances until 30 April 2021 in response to the questions and summaries of today's discussion on the revised Law amending the emissions trading system and to discuss the impact of the Modernization Fund on speeding up the transformation of Polish energy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u188	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u189	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are examining the implementation of the next trading period directive as regards the emissions trading scheme. He de facto withdraws some of the allowances from the market. From this, the overall pool is to be created, among others. That 2% pool that's supposed to create the Modernization Fund. The Modernization Fund is intended to serve the objectives mentioned here. But it is also worth saying that these are not all rights that are subject to sale, they are also national rights. The five Member States that benefit from this Modernization Fund have also included the national system in this pool. On the other hand, I would like to emphasise, because I am the person who worked, among others. on this directive that it was not so obvious at work that this fund would arise. It wasn't so obvious either - that's, that's also one of my conclusions - that 30% grant free allowances to the heating sector. And many arguments had to be used, pointing to the specificity of Poland and the specificity of the Polish district heating system, to prove that he was the one who was entitled to use free allowances. I think it is also worth mentioning on this occasion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u190	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The prices of carbon dioxide allowances have increased by 350% in recent years and will unfortunately continue to increase. Meanwhile, Polish energy is still largely based on coal - 70%. The Modernization Fund is a huge opportunity for us. By 2030, we can get up to 20 billion zlotys from this evil Union. However, this money must be spent wisely on these investments. Not for Ostrołęka, like last time almost PLN 3 billion, not for photovoltaic panels in the Podkarpackie parishes, where they were not even included and consumed PLN 60 million. The Modernization Fund may be an opportunity, but I fear that it will be treated by you just like the Local Initiative Fund, that it will become a political tool to divide funds between its own. And unfortunately, the effects will be measurable, because the fact that we have an increase in electricity prices is your fault and the effect of your policy (the bell) and Minister Sasin replied that this is not going to happen. That is why I wanted to ask the question: Why do you exclude the local and social side after approving the list of priority programmes? Do you not think that their participation in this would have a positive impact on the achievement of these tasks? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u192	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Łącki, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u193	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this act, as in the lens, you can see the completely evil work of the government of the former United Right. After all, the law was to be passed by 2019 because it concerns the sale of emissions for 2021 and 2030. At the time, we had at least a year or a half a year to work well on possible adjustments. Now, of course, there is no more time, because we are 2021. And I guarantee you that the amendments will be made. And they'll be written as usual at night and then pushed through the Sejm with their knees. The rhetorical question: When are you going to start working well because you're taking money from this society, from this country for a good job, and not for a bubble like you do? I don't expect an answer. The second question is this: when you amend this law or add an amendment that will clearly describe how the proceeds from the sale of emissions will be spent, [[♪ The bell ♪]] because it's not in this bill, and how will the funds be distributed from the tool, which is now the new support fund, the Modernization Fund? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u194	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u195	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I wanted to ask you about the consultative council to be the advisory body of the Minister responsible for Climate Affairs. Why are there no representatives of the industry who really know about this? I think quite a lot of mistakes have been made by the government, based on people who don't have much knowledge of energy and do not know where they're going. And why isn't there also a local government party that should be here if it's supposed to be an advisory body? On the other hand, 15 ministerial representatives, who should be doing this as a government, will not really contribute to this advisory body [[♪ The bell ♪]] brought some positive changes, breakthroughs in Polish energy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u196	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Over 43% The entire Modernization Fund will go to our country, it will go to Poland. But as far as the new financial perspective is concerned, a great deal of funding will be devoted to investments related to the wider environment - including RES, energy efficiency and climate objectives. Today, first of all, if we are talking about energy transformation, we need to include as many groups, as many farms as possible, as many entrepreneurs as possible in order to want to participate in this programme. And the second thing is that we need to propose solutions and legal provisions that are permanent, not provisions that will be amended every now and then, not for one term, but for many years, so that different people want to invest in this, because this is for our country. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's very important. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u198	Thank you very much. Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u199	Thank you kindly. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Sticking around at night, avoiding public consultation, concealing property claims - these are actually the determinants of your governments, identification marks. You want to hide everything. And hiding, doing things quietly so that no one can test you and protest you, of course, gives rise to the suspicion that you want to pursue some dark business. You even introduce this practice into areas such as emissions trading. The programme is to be operated by a national environmental fund, an overseer - climate minister. After approval of the list of priority programmes, the path of any consultation with the social side is completely cut off by you. Only the consultative council has an impact on their shape, and in this council only the nominees of the United Right - representatives of ministries, government representative, representative of the operator, or government institution. Is it really so hard for you to add someone to this advice? [[♪ The bell ♪]] from outside your circle - a local governmentman, a representative of a non-governmental organization? Why do you care so much about keeping such matters secret in your midst? What are you hiding, ladies and gentlemen? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u200	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Is it? Mr Jan Warzecha, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I invite you cordially and kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u201	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Member from a certain circle, who is wearing a mask, who said that we would have governments in 2050, said that we had finally gotten something out of ourselves. Meanwhile, we are currently investigating the implementation into national law of a new, extremely important instrument, the Modernization Fund, which will arise from the sale of CO emissions. Minister! I wanted to ask: Is there anywhere written down what percentage of this amount, what part of this amount will be allocated in the form of grants, and what part in the form of a loan? Will it be only (the bell) dependent on the beneficiaries, or is it fixed in advance? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u202	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Rosati, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u203	My dear Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! For the past few years, the Law and Justice Government has had free emission permits at its disposal. They were intended to support energy restructuring in the main energy plants in Poland. I have a question for you: Is it true that the government, instead of supporting energy restructuring, sold these permits on the market, especially last year, and for what amount, because according to the estimates we have, that is PLN 10.12 billion? I would also like to know how many of these free emission permits have actually been addressed to energy companies, and how have they been used? I would very much ask for such a statement concerning what happened to these free emission permits. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u204	Thank you very much. Mrs Magdalena Łośko, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In principle, the draft law provides for the creation of a new fund. According to Art. Article 49 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 separate bank account of the national fund will be funded by PLN 10 million in the years 2020 to 2022. In the following years, each year until 2030 - the amount of PLN 8 million. The funds are to come from the sale of emission allowances. In theory, these measures should be allocated to climate objectives, but nothing is more misleading: Article. 49 indicates that these appropriations may also be made available in at least half for administrative expenditure. In my view, there is a concern that the funds will not go to climate objectives, but will only generate administrative expenditure and will simply be consumed. I therefore appeal to withdraw from this record in this form. These records do not guarantee the transparency of the funds issued. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u206	Thank you very much. We will ask Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, parliamentary club of the Left. Oh, there's your messenger. You're welcome. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed law provides for the possibility to transfer part of the tasks of the national fund operator to the voivodship funds for environmental protection and water management on the basis of agreements. Therefore, as a Member of the Wielkopolska Voivodship, I would like to ask what actions, what projects, what investments are planned to protect the environment and improve energy efficiency in the Wielkopolska Voivodship. It is the voivodship which has been particularly affected by climate change, the effects of climate change, as well as the effects of recent years of drought and very reckless, harmful investments in fossil fuels such as opencast mines. Groundwater levels are dropping, lakes are disappearing. So I would like to ask what measures are planned for this voivodship and what is the timetable for the planned investments (the Bell), in particular concerning the reduction or avoidance of greenhouse gas emissions, adaptation to climate change and removal or carbon sequestration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u208	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u209	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The justification for the project indicates that one of the most important changes introduced by the European Directive is the creation of a Modernization Fund. In accordance with preliminary respect, the Ministry will allocate around 20 billion by 2030. I would like to ask what about the remaining revenue from the sale of emission rights, which will enter the state budget by 2030, as it is estimated that revenues from the sale of emission licences can generate revenues of up to PLN 200 billion. According to the Directive, small-scale investment projects can also be implemented from the Fund, which means the possibility of supporting the modernisation of large energy facilities, but also investments such as the thermomodernisation of existing single-family buildings, the modernisation of district heating sources and the development of low-carbon (Dawn) distributed energy. Therefore, I have a question to the Minister: What is the plan with regard to these expenses and the fight against avalanche living costs, and how many of these funds will go to Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship? And last question: How much will the price of electricity increase in the near future? I kindly ask the Minister to respond in writing on this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u210	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u211	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Polish people and Poles! The European Union wants to give us big money: almost PLN 20 billion for the exchange of cinderellas, for the construction of photovoltaic farms, for thermomodernisation. This money may have flown to our country for two years, but for it to flow, we need a bill. The Minister and the Ministry have been so busy that they haven't prepared this bill in a few years. I ask: Why hasn't there been a bill prepared so far? Where's the minister? And once the Minister prepared the bill, he wrote it down in accordance with the rule: rule and share that only he and his officials will allocate funds, because the consultative board will consist only of government officials. There will be no self-government, no social side. And again with the entertainment, the money gets its own. I hope that these needs will not be called [[♪ The bell ♪]] more companies in Podkarpacie, and the money will go to Poles and Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u212	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, According to the Act, the new task of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management will be the operation of the administrative fund. It is said that a group of at least 100 people, high-quality specialists, will be involved in the operation of this fund. What are the planned costs of servicing the Modernization Fund? This is the first part. The second part. Will the investments that will receive funding from this fund ultimately contribute to reducing energy poverty? Because this is a very important social problem, which affects in particular the inhabitants of less affluent areas. The biggest energy poverty occurs in Podkarpackie, Warmia-Mazurskie and Opolskie voivodships. Is there a chance to improve and reduce energy poverty as a result of this project (The Bell)? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u214	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Can you change it, Marshal? So there's a list... Yes, you can. We'll try to do it. Because you can do anything. That's why I'm looking at an eye that hates opposition, and it's probably gonna be done right away. Yes. But all right, for now, we will listen to the Member, and at the same time we will try to make amends. You're welcome, sir. Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u215	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The problem is that there is no reform of the EU's emissions trading system, which is absolutely dramatic in deconstructing the Polish economy. The prices of heat and electricity will increase by several dozen percent over the next few months. Following the December 2020 European Union decision to tighten the climate targets from 40% to 55% More than 50 Polish heating plants are on the verge of bankruptcy, and several hundred more have huge problems, because this speculative paratax, which is added to the price produced in Poland of heat and electricity, simply has to be passed on to customers in a moment. So energy poverty, ladies and gentlemen, and you cannot lie to yourself in this House through this EU policy in Poland will increase. EU policy will hit the Polish village in the first place. 70% Poles who live in the country use coal. We should put coal at the heart of energy transformation, not turn around. Australians, Japanese, Americans put coal on it, and we turn our backs on our national good. That's why I defend coal, I defend Złoczew, I defend Polish coal. Not one Polish mine should be closed until we build low-carbon sources, a nuclear power plant. That's the truth. Let us not implement this Brussels-German policy, which leads us to an increase in energy poverty and enormous costs for the economy. Everyone will pay for this, and the voters of the Civic Platform, and the voters of Law and Justice, all of them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u216	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, parliamentary club of the Left. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u217	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Modernization Fund is undoubtedly a great opportunity for the Polish economy and a chance that the negligence of recent years will finally be removed. In the Fund, we should draw attention to a number of elements which, without regional support, will not be implemented at a high level without regional consultation, and can even be suspected that they will be transferred back to their own, for their own. Therefore, I ask a question on behalf of the inhabitants of Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship: What financial resources are earmarked for the production and use of electricity from renewable sources in heating? That's the first question. Second: What is the consultation on the transformation of regions dependent on solid fossil fuels, including Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship? Third: What is the planning for energy storage and modernisation of energy networks in Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u218	Thank you very much, sir. I understand that you expect a written answer to the questions about the regions, because I do not expect the Minister to have all 16 voivodships in his head. Yes. More faith, Marshal. I don't think even I could do it. Here you go, Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Parliamentary Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u219	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As we know, since 2005 we have a CO trading system
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u220	Thank you very much. Mrs Urszula Zielińska, Greens.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u221	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! I have already submitted my comments on behalf of the club, amendments to the project. Now I have one question that has bothered me since the beginning of my term as a Member of the Greens, the Civic Coalition, member of the Energy and Climate Committee: Where is the Minister for Climate Affairs? Why hasn't your climate minister been in the climate committee since the beginning of this term of office? It's been two years. I may not have noticed, but I have not seen your climate minister once at any plenary session of the Sejm, during which we discussed very important, important topics: Energy law - a great amendment, the RES Act, further thermomodernisations, today the ETS Act, very important changes that affect our lives. Where is he? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Minister of Climate and what must happen in order for the Minister of Climate - with all due respect to the Minister, Mr Chetwertyński, who is always and always answers our questions - to honor the High House with his presence? [[Applause]] That's the vibe.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u222	Thank you very much. I will close the discussion as part of the questions and, of course, I will ask for two answers in a moment. I was wondering, Miss, and maybe I can tell you where the Minister was when he wasn't at the committee meeting. He was just somewhere else. That's a simple answer. I'm sure she's very honest. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Mr Adam Guibourgé-Chetwertyński. You're welcome, Minister. Five minutes, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u223	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will try first to answer those questions that have been raised repeatedly in your interventions. And then I'm going to go to the ones that appear one at a time. Of course, I probably won't make it. I don't have any data on all the questions, so I can answer some of them in writing. As far as the implementation of this law and the alleged delays are concerned, firstly, I would like to stress that the Modernization Fund does not yet have any resources - the first funds will be available in June this year - so it is not so that Poland cannot use the funds due to the lack of the law. On the other hand, we have been waiting very long for the files of the delegated committees, which have implemented a number of detailed arrangements for the operation of the Modernization Fund and the allocation of free allowances. These issues are the subject of this project because the last act was published by the committee about six months ago. The vast majority of the remaining provisions of the Directive were implemented much earlier. Only in the case of technical issues and the implementation of the Modernization Fund have we waited for the preparation of appropriate delegated acts by the committee. With regard to the method of determining and spending funds from the Modernization Fund, of course, at the level of the Act we set general guidelines in line with the Directive as regards the objectives of this Fund. Specific results, e.g. division into voivodships... This will be as if a result of the success of individual projects in competitions carried out under the Fund. This analysis will therefore be possible after these competitions have been carried out. As regards the issue of auction revenues, I would like to say that the remaining auction revenues are not the subject of this law. The Ministry of Climate and Environment is working on a draft law on the energy transformation fund, which will allocate 40% auction revenue just for the transformation of our energy. In addition, there is already a fund that supports energy-intensive industries for which 25% is spent. our auction revenue. In addition, there are naturally numerous own resources of NFOŚiGW. There are also funds from cohesion policy that are devoted to climate investment. We estimate that over 260 billion PLN will be available for climate investment in the next 10 years. As far as the consultation of the programmes is concerned, I wanted to confirm that these programmes - as well as other priority programmes of NFOŚiGW - are the subject of consultation with the social side. The same will be true of the Modernization Fund. The task of the officials on the consultative board will be to coordinate and ensure a certain identification between the various tools we have in support of climate change. Finally, when it comes to energy poverty, I wanted to confirm that this is indeed a very important problem. Investment under the Modernization Fund will play a very important role here. The most effective way to reduce energy bills will be to exchange its sources for more efficient and cheaper in operation. The aim that we have entered into energy policy is to reduce energy poverty in Poland thanks to these investments by 30%. I see time passing. It's gonna be hard for me to answer the other questions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Maybe I can still address the issue of administrative costs. I can confirm that we absolutely do not transfer half of these funds to the administration. The costs are specified in the OSR and in the Act. We plan to spend from the budget on administrative costs related to the operation of the fund 8 million PLN. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u224	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, rapporteur Krzysztof Tchórzewski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Mr President, would you like to take the floor? Thank you. Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws (prints Nos 1009 and 1069). I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir. Are you an MP? I'm here. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u225	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will present on behalf of the committee the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws, print No 1009. The Marshal of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for first reading on 15 March this year. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to Article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm set a deadline for the submission of the report by 13 April of that year. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 13 April, adopted the proposal and adopted it by a large majority: 29 votes in favour, 1 against, no abstentions. The Commission has adopted this proposal and proposes that the Sejm adopt the attached draft law. At the same time, the committee in accordance with the Rule. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall submit, at the request of the applicants, the following minority request: Point 2 of Article 1 7 plus paragraph. 4 as follows: 4. The identity card issued to a person who is 70 years of age shall be valid indefinitely from the date of issue. This minority proposal has been addressed by three Members: Adamczyk, Szczepański and Szopinski, and I am legally submitting this proposal. Just one comment, ladies and gentlemen. A very substantive discussion during the presentation of this project at first reading and, as I pointed out, the results of this vote show that this proposal was adopted and recommended to the High Sejm for adoption in quite a consensus. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u226	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mr Paul Hreniak from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u227	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present a position towards the government draft law amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws. The draft law aims primarily at adapting the provisions currently in force to the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019. The purpose of this Regulation is to improve the security of personal evidence and to increase its credibility by removing significant differences in the level of security at different levels in the different Member States of the European Union. Today's draft law adapts the provisions to this regulation and this is the main reason for starting legislative work. It is worth noting that one of the most important changes which, after the adoption of the law, will improve the protection of identity cards against counterfeiting, is the introduction of biometrics in the electronic layer in the form of fingerprints. It is also proposed to amend the period of validity of personal evidence. It will be 5 years, and as a rule 10 years, while in an emergency - 1 year. A change in the graphic layer shall also be made where the signature of the holder of the identity card will be entered. All this is to increase safety. I think it is also worth mentioning that this way we meet the safety requirements of international civil aviation. That, of course, also matters. The draft law also affects an area such as the way in which an identity card is requested, transfers the identification of a model identity card from the regulation - as has been the case so far - to the law. Finally, the proposed law also changes the conditions for the exchange of evidence by introducing inter alia. a statement stating that the change in the name of the place of birth will not necessitate the exchange of the document. The proposed law also sets out the elements that have so far caused interpretational doubts. This applies e.g. a form for the loss of identity card. The project has received a positive assessment, without comments, of the Commission of the Joint Government and the Territorial Government, so we have a positive opinion of the entity which will implement the law alongside the government administration. High Izbo! Minister! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice considers the bill submitted by the government to be good and desirable. Consequently, we intend to support him in further work in the Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u228	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be speeding up a bit because we are an hour behind schedule and the meeting is scheduled for today. 1.30, so our colleagues will work at least until 1 p.m. 2.30. So I have a polite request that you try - as if you could - to speak a little less. I'm not imposing anything, just please, and I'll be grateful, because this bill doesn't seem to arouse the controversy of the greats. Please, Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition, the Deep.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u229	Yes, thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition, to present a position on such an important bill, because concerning personal evidence, which is without doubt a specific document stating our identity. Improving the security of identity cards is an extremely important aspect, as highlighted by the Council and the European Parliament by issuing a regulation in June 2019 aimed at reducing the risk of counterfeiting of documents and crimes against the reliability of documents, as well as removing the significant differences in the level of safeguards applied in different countries. These guidelines were drawn up two years ago, and it is only today that the draft government law on this matter goes to Parliament, which is a worrying phenomenon. It took almost two years to prepare the bill, and today we are only at the beginning of this legislative process. It seems that this law should come into force and be signed by the President around July, and it is in July that the first provisions on this issue are due to enter into force, and on 2 August the entire law is to become effective. Minister! On the basis of the provisions of the Act, which we do not yet know the final form, many important activities must be carried out, starting with the purchase of equipment, scanners, computers, adaptation of information systems, blanks, but also training of many officials who will carry out this task as part of the task commissioned by the government to local governments. It is therefore necessary to train those who will carry out tasks in this area in connection with the introduction of a second electronic layer with biometric characteristics. It is also about training officials who will carry out fingerprint activities directly in the field, reaching our residents. These are also technological and application changes, and many others, and there is actually not much at the time, as the local authorities themselves are calling for speeding up the necessary training and information to local authorities about the specific activities to be implemented in this respect. It is also about securing the necessary financial resources for the subsequent implementation of the various rules and, above all, to secure funds for aspects such as the maintenance of the necessary equipment, the service, the exchange of infrastructure, because today, of course, the funds are secured for their purchase, but we must remember the perspective of the next years when the law and these changes will apply. The issue that we also pointed out yesterday, which is the subject of a minority request, is the issue of our seniors, whose identity card will also be valid for a period of 10 years. Today, it is a particular responsibility of the State to develop solutions which will contribute to the issue of personal evidence to seniors, and without delay or at least with a significantly extended period of validity, as also highlighted by the Commission and the Council, allowing the possibility of extending this period. Everything must therefore be done to reduce the number of older people, often with disabilities, who will have to exchange evidence on a regular basis. Such solutions will also reduce the number of visits of officials to senior homes. This is extremely, I stress, an extremely important aspect. Yeah, that's what we talked about last night. There are various technical difficulties, formal difficulties, but we are a big country in the 21st century, and I think that we are also able to cope with these difficulties, and that is what seniors expect us to do in a special way. I stress once again: the Civic Coalition Club welcomes these actions aimed at reducing the risk [[♪ The bell ♪]] forgery of documents which are intended to safeguard documents of as particular importance as personal evidence in an additional way. Nevertheless, I pay attention to the need... Thank you, sir. ...to clarify the rules so that we are fully satisfied with them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u230	Great. Thanks a lot. Mr Wiesław Szczepański, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u231	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left, I have the honour to present our position to the High House regarding the government draft law amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws. Yesterday, the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs almost unanimously examined this proposal at first reading and almost unanimously recommended its adoption to the High House. According to the Act, another biometric feature will be introduced into the ID: fingerprints. Their owners' signatures will appear again on the I.D. The new rules are due to enter into force on 2 August this year. and adapt the Polish right to current EU regulations, namely the 2019 European Union and Council of Europe Regulation of 20 June on the security of personal evidence of citizens of the European Union and residence permits issued to citizens of the Union and their family members enjoying the right to free movement. The purpose of the Regulation is to reduce the risk of counterfeiting of documents and offences against the reliability of documents by removing the significant differences in the level of safeguards of national documents for the exercise of the right of free movement. This Regulation imposes new obligations on the European Union countries concerning the necessary safeguards in the identity documents, including, inter alia, the obligation to introduce a second biometric characteristic, i.e. fingerprints. It is also about the need to adapt the identity card to the specifications and minimum safety standards. Fingerprints will be taken when submitting an application for identity cards in the municipality. The Act also specifies the maximum period for the storage of fingerprints in the Register of Personal Evidence, i.e. until the date of receipt of the identity card, not more than 90 days from the date of issue, i.e. personalisation of proof. If it is not possible from the applicant for ID to collect his fingerprints, e.g. Because of the illness, this ID will only be valid for 12 months. No fingerprints will also be admissible for children up to 12 years of age. He's also returning to the I.D., as I said, the signature of the owner of the document. The amendments to the Act also apply to the term of validity of personal evidence. In the case of personal evidence of children under 12 years of age, the proof will be valid for a period of 5 years. For people who are over 12 years of age, this will be a standard period of 10 years. As fingerprints will be collected from the applicant, the application for an identity card of a person over the age of 12 will only be made in person in the municipality. This will also require the training of municipal staff and the equipment of offices for fingerprinting devices. The current identity cards shall remain valid depending on their date of issue and shall be replaced by 2030. Due to the increased expenditure of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration and municipalities, the government plans additionally several hundred million PLN spread over 10 years to carry out this task. The government also assured the committee that it would be ready from the beginning of June - he and the municipalities - to carry out this task. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At the first reading, my club at the committee meeting had tabled an amendment to ensure that the identity card issued to a person who was 70 years of age was valid for an unlimited period of time from the date on which it was issued. This entry is in line with the suggestion in Article. Point 4 (2) of the 2019 Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe Since this amendment did not obtain a majority, we reported it as a minority request. I am asking the Minister and, as I see, the Director present here, that you review this and agree to accept this solution. My club will vote for this bill. Mr. Marshal, I've saved you a minute. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u232	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Marek Biernacki, Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u233	Mr. Marshal! Welcome. Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the coalition club Poland - PSL - Union of European Democrats - Conservatives, I present my position towards the government draft law amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws. The government project adapts Polish law to the European Union regulation on improving the security of personal evidence and residence permits. The basic change is to introduce so-called personal evidence. the second biometric characteristic, i.e. fingerprints. The first biometric feature is, of course, our face. Fingerprints will make it impossible to submit an application for an ID card no longer electronically, but will have to be submitted personally to the municipal authority. The possibility of submitting an application for an identity card by electronic means will remain only for a document for persons up to 12 years from which fingerprints will not be taken. Our club, us as Coalition Poland was very interested in how our data, i.e. personal evidence, will be protected. The Act clearly specifies the maximum storage period for fingerprints in the Register of Personal Evidence. Very precise, because from the moment of download to the day of receipt of the identity card, no longer than 90 days from the date of issue, in other words, personalization of the identity card. And that's a very important element for us. The new identity card in relation to the first generation of evidence has an advantage insofar as it involves the implementation of new safeguards, and in particular, as I have already mentioned, the second biometric feature, which must reduce the counterfeiting of documents and the reduction of crimes against the reliability of documents. At this point it is worth mentioning, that 21 years have passed since the introduction of evidence of the next generation, the blanks. Poland was one of the first countries to introduce such identity cards: Poland, Hungary and Finland. And interestingly, our I.D. was always very well secured. According to NATO experts, they were considered to be the best secured personal evidence in Europe and some of the best in the world. But in Europe and in the European Union, things have been different. Moreover, which is very important for the citizen, the new identity card will be based on a uniform level of safeguards issued by the European Union's countries, which will eliminate the differences that have caused citizens difficulties in implementing the right to free movement. The Polish Coalition supports the government's submission. He is only concerned that the President will most likely sign the bill in May, the bill will enter into force on August 2nd... What my previous speakers said, and they pointed out, that the preparatory process is quite long and complex, because it is necessary to purchase equipment, scanners for fingerprinting, buy different types of licenses for handling this equipment, and also train municipal officials. In addition, mobile download points are set up. As far as these mobile points are concerned, you should also purchase equipment, special scanners and personal computers and train new officials. So there's a lot of preparatory work. In addition, the introduction of a new model of proof with a second additional biometric feature requires that personal evidence be adapted to that register where it is stored. I hope the government doesn't have time to make a mess after all. I'm sure you can count on our support in this case. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u234	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Tuduj, Circle of the Polish Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u235	Thank you kindly. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We live in a time of digital revolution. Technological progress is progressing very quickly. The question is whether the technical possibilities that science offers are followed by a social reflection on how to use them. Exactly so in the case of the collection and processing of unique biometric data for each human being, including fingerprint data. This subject should be assessed without technical prejudice. This type of data has been partially collected and used for years. Such systems operate in some companies or commonly in mobile phones. The added value of these technologies is the helping role in the fight against crime and terrorist threats and better protection of property. However, there are disadvantages related to the increasing degree of surveillance of societies and the risks that this can give birth to, among others. in the case of unauthorised access or the creation of totalitarian systems, which we cannot rule out. I call on the positives not to overshadow the negatives in this case. This project concerns the introduction of a second biometric characteristic, i.e. fingerprints. A reminder requires that the present evidence already has one biometric characteristic, i.e. a picture of the face taken in front, taking into account its geometry. Everywhere, the European Union forces us to introduce a second feature in Poland and justifies the need for a better verification of the right to free movement on the territory of the countries forming the Community. I wonder what percentage of people covered by this regulation are actually people who need regular and free travel in the EU countries, including flying planes. The question is, ladies and gentlemen, whether this is really necessary. The applicant did not focus on convincing the Polish public of the necessity and validity of this solution, but merely on pointing out the will of the European Union expressed in the form of a regulation. A number of questions arise. Among them is the question of security, access to these data. Currently, a photo that takes account of the geometry of the face is placed in evidence in a graphical manner and needs to be identified with a physical document. Fingerprints are to be placed in a chip built into evidence, which will require electronic reading. From the justification project we learn that authorized access to these data will be given to the authorities of the Polish state and EU agencies, which are currently almost 50. Let us remember that there may also be another regulation. The expansion of EU bureaucracy corresponds to socialist visions, so we can imagine realizing the dreams of the New Left, e.g. in the form of an EU agency for equal treatment with a more specific scope of competence, but with a strong appetite for dictating the worldview of European citizens. This raises further questions. Aren't we getting used to the apocalyptic vision of putting chips under human skin? After all, this will be the most convenient way to find out in a few years. And what will the real security of these systems be? From what distance, who's gonna be able to read that evidence? What about unauthorized access to both chips in new evidence and databases? Neither the European Union nor the applicant can in any way convince us of the security of storage of these data, we do not learn how it works in other countries, what is the experience here, what is the level of resistance to various types of cyberattacks. In this regulation we are moving towards an increasingly fuller and, as it seems, unjustified surveillance. It is criminal for such changes to take place without a broad public debate or reflection on what kind of adverse effects this can have. This issue concerns the freedom of our citizens, and it should not be so that the European Union itself decides to limit it. It is in our national interest that Poles should not be read, counted without their knowledge or exposed to new threats. The fact that such technical possibilities exist does not mean that they must be mass and forced to be introduced. Leaving this vision would translate into enormous savings in avoiding the introduction of the system, employing a large number of officials to handle it. Let us add that it is the data of those who, in the vast majority, do not pose a threat to the security of the state or lead a migratory lifestyle. In addition, it is particularly outrageous to include a new identity card of the flag of the European Union on the model. Are we a European superstate or an independent Polish state? Where's this coming from? We therefore apply to reject the project in its entirety. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] You're a shyster, aren't you?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u236	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to asking questions. We determine that the question is to be asked in one minute. The first person to come forward is Mr Artur Łącki of the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u237	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm asking the same question as yesterday, Minister, because I don't think I got the answers. It must be said that what will happen later is still going to be a task commissioned, which will fall mainly on the punishments of municipal and municipal authorities, it is about the exchange of this evidence. As we know, now local governments have lost a lot of money because of the restriction and CIT tax, and the PIT tax, and they have also received less money, at least some, because the government of the United Right used to give away money only to its own and not to all local governments. My question is: Will local governments get a 100% refund for this task? One hundred percent, which means they won't have to add any of their budgets, and they won't have to add any of their budgets now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u238	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, Parliamentary Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u239	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Without a valid I.D., we're gonna have trouble dealing with offices or banks. First question. When we try to pick up a registered letter at the post office or withdraw money at the bank, we need our ID. That is why it is so important that today's debate on the issue of issuing personal evidence, the question set out in this law. New solutions are expected to enter into force on 2 August 2021. My club has proposed that people who are 70 years old be exempted from remaking ID cards. This possibility can be found in the Regulation of the European Parliament. Once again, we kindly ask the government to lean on this proposal. And the second point, also discussed at yesterday's committee meeting, i.e. request of the Association of Notaries of the Republic of Poland. The aim is to reduce the validity of the identity card issued after the age of 15 (the bell), as the appearance of a person before the age of 20 is very different and between 12. Twenty-two years of age, these changes are huge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u240	Thank you. Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u241	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will return to the question of seniors and the issue of personal evidence for an indefinite period or with an extended period of validity. I would like to ask what changes should be made so that such evidence can be issued indefinitely. At what time are we able to make these changes, in what mode? I would ask you to refer to this issue, and to this, if you have such knowledge, as the issue of issuing personal evidence to seniors over the age of 70, has been regulated by other Member States. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u242	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u243	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you about keeping biometrics, fingerprints in the Ministry's system. Will I.D.s be stored at all? Will the prints be stored? If so, how long? Will it be as it should be, means that they will be uploaded to evidence only during personalization and then deleted? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u244	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is absolutely no doubt about the harmonisation of the model identity card for citizens who are members of the European Union. Doubt may arise in the time in which we proceed. We had two years to do this. The first regulations come into force in July. I'm sure we'll make it. Given the operationality of local governments, there's a good chance everything's gonna be okay. But I would like to ask what the cost of introducing these regulations is. I would like to be assured that all the costs associated with changes in personal evidence will be borne by the state budget, that this will not fall on local government units. And I would like to ask a second question to the government or to the majority of Parliament: What were the reasons for rejecting yesterday's amendment aimed at not applying this 10-year requirement to seniors who were 70 years old? It seems logical that if someone turns 70, they will be able to obtain ID for an indefinite period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u246	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Parliamentary Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u247	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The draft law provides that the identity card issued to a person under the age of 12 is valid for 5 years from the date of its issue and issued to a person who is 12 years old is valid for 10 years from the date of its issue. It is also possible to issue for a year if fingerprints cannot be downloaded. And this raises the question: Why is the term of validity of personal evidence issued to older people over 70 years of age no longer than 10 years old? This is what makes it possible for Art. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 Regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council. Why not make it easier for seniors to live and no longer bother them with unnecessary bureaucracy? Left Members: Szczepański, Shopiński and Adamczyk tabled an amendment in this respect, which was rejected. There's a minority request. Why aren't we making it easy for the seniors? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u248	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u249	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This Act on Personal Evidence, which adapts Polish documents and regulations to the requirements of the European Union, is extremely expected, important. The Ministry had almost two years to prepare it. It did, of course, at the last minute. The bill is being processed at this point. But the local governments that will enforce the law, take full responsibility for its implementation, prepare systems, have for it, ladies and gentlemen, how much? On August 2nd, the bill is to enter into force. On 2 August the local authorities must be prepared, compact and ready. Citizens must also be prepared. Why is it so late again? Why at the last minute? And second question. Have you committed funds for this purpose, or will everything fall to local governments as usual, municipalities that will draw money from other tasks in order to carry out intentional tasks imposed by the government? [[♪ The bell ♪]] This can't be right. I ask: What resources did the Ministry allocate to local governments?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u250	Thank you. Mr Michał Urbaniak, Confederation, parliamentary circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u251	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a rather specific question for the Ministry: What is the purpose of once again so meek implementation of European Union law? It is not only that all Poles will be treated as potential criminals, not only that their data will be received by the whole European Union, all bureaucrats who will, but still - although you are so throated about the need to reduce people's contacts due to COVID-19 - you will force Poles to come to the offices and submit to the procedure of fingerprinting. Why would you think that? And then there's the other thing. How much is this whole procedure gonna cost? I'm talking about summing up all the amounts and putting it in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u252	Thank you. Mrs Magdalena Łośko, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u253	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The new evidence will undoubtedly be more secure, their electronic layer will offer many possibilities. The aim of the project is to adapt the evidence models to the new EU requirements. But there's one flaw. Online requests for proof will only be available until 2 August. After this time the issue of proof will involve a personal visit to the office. I have a question: Why didn't the government also include electronic applications in the 21st century? Will the government take such proposals and solutions into account? I'm asking because there was no answer to that question at the committee meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u254	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u255	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Representatives of the Government! The Act provides for the possibility of accepting an application and issuing an ID card outside the Office. The explanatory memorandum states that mobile official points related to the receipt and issue of personal evidence should be approx. 335, i.e. on average in one municipality in the county. So far, there have been about 30,000 evidence released outside the Office on average. But we also have situations like this. in Wielkopolska, where the poznan district is 17 municipalities and 400 thousand. The population, and the district of Wolsztyński consists of three municipalities and about 60 thousand. residents. Will the application adopted in municipality X, served by a remote official for the resident of municipality Y, be issued in the municipality where the resident is, stays on a daily basis, or where the official remotely receives and issues the application? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u256	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u257	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am speaking inspired by Mr Tuduja's statements and I would like to ask the Minister about the elements that have emerged, about chipping. I wanted to ask you if it's really possible to chip. Will chipping allow you to measure your potency, possibly the number of orgasms? Because if we do, maybe we can convince some of them. Minister! This is a serious question to decide whether some will be tempted to vote in favour of this law, because I think that the Confederate Members would welcome the application to measure the potency and become familiar with the number of orgasms. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u258	Whew. Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration... Mr. Marshal, in correction mode. Excuse me? In corrigendum mode, my name came up. Minister, wait a minute. Well, this is the Member - in the manner of correcting this very interesting discussion. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u259	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We are dealing with a violation of the seriousness of the Sejm here. I see your question has made you laugh... Mr President, I am protesting. If you don't have orgasms, then... With such rudeness, Mr. Marshal, we have not dealt with in the High House. So that there will be a conclusion. Will the marshal tolerate it? That's all I wanted to say. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u260	Thank you very much. If you could lower your emotions a little bit, I think it would be good for the Polish Sejm. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Minister Paweł Bosternaker to speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u261	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you very warmly for the substantive discussion that took place yesterday at the committee meeting, for the work of the committee, for supporting the smooth procedure of the committee bureau with the chairman. To answer the questions that have been raised here today, I would first of all like to begin by the fact that the ladies and gentlemen, the basis of a well prepared law, one which implements an IT project, which is quite complicated, is a very good preparation of a technical concept. In fact, it is not the law that implements a large part of those solutions that you feared would not be prepared by August. As part of the IT project, the Interministerial Steering Committee for the implementation of the second biometric characteristic was established 1.5 years ago. This interservice steering committee has just prepared a draft law, i.e. the entire legislation related to this project, but it has also started technical actions, the most important ones from the point of view of the implementation of the IT project. I would like to reassure you that we are now in the process of integrating the new and old system. The implementation tests for local governments will be carried out next month. In May, training will also begin as regards the local government side. As far as the tender process is concerned, the State asked, and the purchase of scanners, it is taking time and everything will be realized at the moment. At the moment, there are no risks regarding the implementation of the second biometric feature in personal evidence. Ladies and gentlemen! To answer the question about whether the evidence could be valid for more than 10 years for people over the age of 70, I would say that we would like it to be. This was the case in Poland until the proof had no electronic version. Today's proof is not only a blank, but there is also an electronic version. As you know, on all issues relating to computerisation, it is very important that there are certificates that ensure the security of the electronic version. Many of our compatriots, including during the pandemic, are increasingly using different e-services. We want to expand the electronic version and the functionality of personal evidence and we need to ensure security. These certificates are up to 10 years of validity in terms of safety, so if we wanted to extend the validity of the proof, it would not be possible to secure the electronic version to Poles at the level at which we would like it to be. So, I answer the question - today there is no possibility to issue proof for unlimited time and there will be no further possibility. That's why the government went against it. The point is that there is no such situation that someone will have proof, but it will not be safe from the electronic layer. You have often asked about the issues of local governments. I would like to point out that the joint committee of the government and the local government adopted the proposal without any comments, i.e. the self-government party has not submitted any comments. He's prepared for the expense side, ladies and gentlemen. The grant for the task shall be awarded on the basis of the number of tasks carried out. The amount of the grant is a man-hour rate of 31 PLN. There is also an increased time-consuming task due to the fact that there will be fingerprinting - from 30 minutes to 37. A new task will be assigned: issuing an ID card outside the office. The intensity of this action is, of course, much greater - 2 hours. The increase in grant costs only this year by PLN 6 million in the perspective of 10 years is an increase in grant by PLN 160 million for local governments. There was a question about the whole (Bingle) expenses. That's about PLN 363 million. If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal, I'll answer two more frequently asked questions. As far as the maximum period of validity in the European Union is concerned, this maximum period of validity is, in the vast majority, 10 years for personal evidence. When it comes to holding a second biometric characteristic, i.e. fingerprints, it is no longer than 90 days in the Register of Personal Evidence. No EU authorities, as has been said here, will hold the I.D. data. Only when crossing borders, as it is today, does the border guard of the other country have an insight into this data at the time of crossing, and that will continue to be the case. The proof will be issued as it is today's passport. To apply for a passport, you have to make fingerprints. To pick up a passport, you have to make fingerprints, too. It's the security of public documents. And the last question that was: Why can't you submit online? That's why, ladies and gentlemen, there's no possibility of a large-scale online fingerprinting today. You just have to go to the office and file an application at the office. Thank you very much for those questions that were relevant. I hope that you have also received a substantive answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u262	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a motion was made to reject the draft law in its entirety. I propose that the Sejm do not refer this bill back to the committee. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments and the Act on National Tax Administration (Prints Nos 1012 and 1037). I ask Mr Jack the World to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u263	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft law amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments and the Act on National Tax Administration, published in print no. 1012. It is a government project aimed at introducing a criminal provision for the purpose of a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. 2019/880 on the introduction and import of cultural goods. This project was addressed by the Marshal of the Sejm to the Committee on Culture in order to have its first reading. The meeting took place on 26 March this year. During the meeting an interesting and in-depth discussion developed, the main motive of which was the question whether this law would not in any way impede the restitution of Polish cultural goods, especially those who remained on the borders of the former Eastern Ends, so at the request of Members the sitting was postponed. In the meantime, the Ministry has provided Members with additional materials. The committee's meeting was continued on 13 April. This time the discussion was much shorter and the committee approved the draft without amendments, with one vote of opposition and one abstention. The committee therefore recommends that the High House adopt a law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u264	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jacek World on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u265	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the draft law amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments and the Act on National Tax Administration. Let me remind you that on 17 April 2019 a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the introduction and import of cultural goods was adopted. We are obliged to introduce criminal rules into our legal order for the operation of this regulation. Anyway, it's urgent because the deadline is actually over. The purpose of the Regulation is to adopt common rules in the European Union to protect against the illicit trade in cultural goods imported from third countries and to prevent the financing of terrorism by the sale of illegally acquired and illegally disposed goods. The problem isn't trivial. Large-scale artifacts from plunder or illegal excavations are exported from countries under war, terrorism, or without stable power, such as Syria or Iraq. The sale of cultural monuments is today the third source of terrorist financing after human trafficking and oil trafficking. This is even greater than drug trafficking. The Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council aims to put an end to this practice. Our role is important in this respect, because Poland protects a large part of the external borders of the Union. Today we are a transit country and maybe not the main one, but the route of smuggling cultural goods. We must not allow Poland to become a weak link in the protection of the customs territory of the European Union. This Act is primarily intended to give the National Tax Administration more effective tools to combat this type of crime. The Act therefore provides for adequate penalties - including prison penalties - for the illegal import and circulation of cultural objects and the possibility of confiscation of such objects. The Annex to the EU Regulation contains a list of prohibited goods is referred to here. During the meeting of the cultural committee there was an interesting discussion about the restitution of Polish cultural goods located outside the eastern borders. This subject, of course, will become, I hope, as Minister Gawin promises, the subject of a separate committee debate, but of course there is no direct link between the contested law and this discussion. The Law and Justice Club is, of course, in favour of the whole bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u266	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Król, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u267	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft Act amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments and the Act on National Tax Administration aims to implement the provisions of the Regulation of the European Parliament which prohibits the introduction of cultural objects into the European Union if they have been illegally removed from the territory of the State in which they were created or discovered. Pursuant to that Regulation, Member States shall lay down the rules on penalties applicable to infringements of the Regulation and shall take all necessary measures to ensure that they are implemented. The essence of the solutions contained in the draft is the penalization of illegal entry, which will result in the sentence of imprisonment of the perpetrators up to the age of 2. The draft also provides for the amendment of the Act of 16 November 2016 on National Tax Administration and the extension of the powers and powers of the heads of customs offices for detection, recognition and, in particular, the fight against the offence in question. At the same time, it will be possible for the court to decide on the forfeiture of the cultural goods which came from the crime. Attention should be paid to the scale of the global art market, the heritage of culture, which is one of the important sources of funding for criminal groups, money laundering or terrorist financing. The scale of the operation shall be signalled by the special services, as well as by the services specialising in the fight against crimes arising from trade in stolen works of art. To sum up, the proposed amendment to the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments, as well as the Act on the National Tax Administration of the Civic Coalition, which I represent, will support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u268	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome, Mrs. Messenger.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u269	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Left supports the alignment of Polish law with EU law to protect the cultural heritage of non-EU countries by penalising illegal imports into the European Union, and thus Poland, works of art and illegal trade. PiS often and much speaks about the cultural identity of our country and the need to protect the cultural heritage of Poland. So it would seem that when it comes to protecting the cultural goods of other countries and nations, countries, thinking will be the same, and discussion - short and substantive, but none of this. For many hours, two meetings of the cultural committee had to be explained that works of art stolen e.g. Iraq is the third source of financing for terrorism and the protection of our cultural goods is already covered by the relevant legislation. Despite this, Mr Suski and his obstinate maniac mixed peas with cabbage. And this was brought up by icons from Ukraine or Belarus, and this was blackmailed: we will support, but only when the Germans hand over the works of art stolen from us during World War II. After all, this law is a government law prepared by the Minister of Culture, i.e. by the Minister of Culture, i.e. by Mr.Suski, he was throwing sand, putting a stick in the spokes of the bike of Minister of Gliński, so he put it in his own. Or maybe Minister Gliński isn't in the PiS anymore? All this again shows how dylantic the PiS is, and conflicting everyone with everyone is inscribed in its DNA, how it does not understand what it is and how the European Community works. Unfortunately, this does not surprise us, but, of course, it constantly frightens and grieves. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u270	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u271	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed amendment to the Act of 23 July 2003 on the protection of monuments and the care of monuments, as you know, results from the need to implement into the Polish legal order the provisions of the 2019 European Parliament and European Council Regulation on the introduction and transport of cultural goods. Pursuant to that Regulation, the 2019/880 nomen omen is prohibited from introducing the cultural goods referred to in part into the European Union A - there is one such annex to that Regulation - if they have been illegally removed from the territory of the country where they were established or discovered. The Member States of the European Union shall therefore establish and seek to unify within the European Union sanctions which must be, in particular, effective, proportionate and dissuasive. The aim of the proposed act is to extend the legalisation of the illegal introduction into the territory of the Republic of Poland of cultural goods originating in countries not members of the European Union - this is very important. The bill, as you know, is in line with European Union law. Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, Conservatives supports the proposed solutions and will vote in favour of this project. At the same time, we are addressing you and, above all, the Prime Minister, the Ministers and the High House, so that in a cross-party dialogue we can deal with, ladies and gentlemen, the even more important thing that is mentioned here, the restitution of Polish cultural goods, those robbed and those left behind, let's say, behind the eastern border of Poland. That is why I am calling on the government from this point on the one hand to enter into effective negotiations with our neighbours. At the meeting of the Committee on Culture, there was a proposal for us to meet, for example, the Committee on Culture of the Polish Parliament met with the Committee on Culture of the German Parliament. And this is a very good proposal, because we must finally talk about it really seriously, because we should not only support activities concerning polishmen, when it comes to taking care of cultural goods out there in the East, but above all we should ensure that they return to Poland as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u272	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Urbaniak, Circle of the Polish Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u273	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, we are talking again about the unreflective implementation of EU law into Polish law. Well, that's the vibe. Imports into Poland of cultural goods which have been removed from a third country which does not belong to the European Union would be prohibited and this good has been obtained illegally. It's okay. In the event of a breach of that prohibition, the law provides for a limitation of freedom to the years 2, a fine or a loss of that particular good to the Treasury. All right, I'm just wondering whose business it's gonna be in. I am not particularly convinced that this particular activity should take place on a large scale here. Why should we as Poles care about how something was exported from another country? But shouldn't it be so that our resources, our forces, are directed towards what we actually need? In this case, there is no specific provision in this law concerning the application by a third country to Poland and the determination of the goods concerned. If there was a report like that, at least we'd know what to look for, and so look for wind in the field. Unfortunately, that cannot be our consent, so we will not vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u274	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Tuduj, Circle of the Polish Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u275	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It welcomes in this submission the sensitivity to cultural goods and the thinking in terms of natural law in this regulation, because the theme of stealing is raised, so that it is very good, so is the standard from which the proposed provisions arise in this regard. That's right, let's respect that. Interestingly, this level of civilization has also reached our western neighbour, Germany, because since 2016 the same rules have been in force in Germany. It is a pity that they have not been in force since 1939, when they mass-racked works of art owned by the Polish state or Polish citizens. In total, the number of works of art robbed as a result of occupation in Poland is about 0.5 million. It's a powerful number. Unfortunately, only part of these cultural goods have returned to Poland to this day. Let us hope that, in the event of the arrival of new, good times, the Ministry of Culture will be more concerned with this fact than the monuments devastated in the autumn and will be able to recover more than a few pieces a year of these cultural goods, these works. This, too, would prove the effectiveness of foreign policy under the PiS and the alleged European solidarity that we are being persuaded to believe at every turn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u276	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u277	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 supports the adoption of this law. These are only three articles, and the law requires the Polish law to be brought into line with the provisions of the regulation of the European Parliament. So let us accept it within the framework, as I have often said, of the mini-max of the Seym: minimum words, minimum waste of time, as you have called for by the marshal, and maximum of good law. Even if one of the members of the Committee on Culture, a longtime Member, abstained in the vote on this project. It takes so long to adapt to this regulation. After all, it is the protection of cultural heritage, the prevention of illegal trade, especially as it could be used to finance terrorism. After all, the principle of general application has already been applicable since December ub. By 28 December 2020, Member States were to notify the Commission of sanctions provisions. So not to waste time, yet the question. Not the electronic system, because it is supposed to be in force from 2025. That's a question from one of the voters because we're here on their behalf. Will it be easy for everyone to access the list of cultural goods? For example, the annex to Parliament's regulation can be too difficult for tourists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u278	Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. The list of people who will be asking questions is closed. One minute to question. I invite Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u279	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! We are implementing European Union law on the protection of cultural goods against their illegal export. I have questions for this project. First of all, what will happen to the good of culture that the court will judge? Will it return to the country from which it was illegally exported, or will there be another procedure? That's the first question. Secondly, I wanted to ask about Polish moving monuments illegally exported from the country, because there is a lot of this too. I wanted to ask what is the scale of the return of these monuments that were illegally exported from Poland and this illegal activity was found at the border. How much is on the scale (Bingle) of the year or on the scale of the last few years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u280	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u281	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think there is no doubt about this House's prohibition on the introduction of cultural objects into the European Union if they have been illegally, it must be stressed that they have been illegally removed from the territory of the country where they were created or discovered. I have two questions, though. First: Does the Ministry have data for example from 2020, how many such cases, how many such attempts have actually occurred to introduce such cultural objects in Poland? And second question: What amounts does the Ministry allocate and what actions are taken to bring to Poland those cultural goods which have either been illegally removed from Poland or found themselves outside Poland after World War II? And I would ask you to answer that question in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u282	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u283	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The implementation of this law is right and good, because it is the sealing of the law on very important issues. But will it be a recipe alive or dead? We introduce this provision on criminality in the article. 108a and Art. 108 speaks of criminality for destroying cultural goods. In the meantime, in front of the whole of Poland the monument is destroyed or destroyed. The fact that it is unusual, I learned from the response received from Minister Gliński to the interpellation, and from the provincial monument conservator I received information that it is wonderful. What are we talking about? I'm talking about the granary being at the same time a defensive fortress in the Modlin. In front of the whole of Poland, parts of this building fall to the Vistula. Why am I talking about this? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm talking about the recipe. Marshal, one more sentence, if you don't mind. Thank you. And why am I talking about the recipe being dead? It's about art. 108. I'm just saying this because it's enough for an inspection to come in to determine the destruction of the monument. All it takes is an inspection that a monument conservationist can't do. Why? Because the owner doesn't come to the appointments. There were three of them. Can the conservator never handle it? Can't this law oblige... Madam President, we must finish slowly. ...the owner to make the monument available for inspection, so that it can be protected? It's a monument of extraordinary class. It is said that it should be a monument recognized by UNESCO. Thank you very much. I'm asking for an answer on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u284	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. Are you an MP? There's no envoy. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u285	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The penalties for the introduction of cultural objects set out in Part A of the Annex to the European Union Regulation are to be, according to the representatives of the Polish Government, a contribution to the fight against global terrorism. Part A mainly concerns goods of little value, including furniture, stamps and souvenirs related to the lives of national leaders. I therefore have a question: Why is the government not trying to fight terrorism more effectively through high sanctions for illegal imports of the goods set out in Annexes B and C of the Regulation, i.e. very valuable? That's where the real money's hidden. And second question. I appreciate the government's efforts to recover the works of art plundered by Germany and Russia, but I have the following question: Is the government taking action to recover the works plundered from Poland also before World War II (Dawn), and if so, what? I ask you kindly to answer in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u286	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u287	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments, including the Prohibition of Trafficking in Illegally Acquired Monuments, is as appropriate, indicated and necessary, because the protection of monuments of history, culture and national heritage should be an overriding value for every nation. However, I must note that some government institutions, such as the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, do not follow this principle. Because how else do you call the desire to build the Janów Lubelski ring road, which is to run along the route of the former medieval cemetery, despite the numerous protests of the inhabitants, what do you call the desire to destroy what the inhabitants are fighting for? That is why I appeal from this point of view, and I ask the Minister to stand up to his task and not to do so. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For a nation that does not remember its past builds on the ruins of its ancestors, a nation that has no future. Therefore, I ask the Minister to intervene so that the ruins of Janów Lubelski's ancestors do not create a road.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u288	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u289	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, This is an important law on the protection of monuments imported from third countries into the European Union. On the other hand, I would like to ask about the fact which was mentioned here during the debate, namely that Poland is increasingly a transit country when it comes to the carriage of these monuments from outside the European Union. What is the scale, do you have any details of the relevant services on this subject today? And second question. What legal act governs today the issue of the recovery of stolen monuments, plundered during World War II, before World War II within the countries of the European Union? Whether these solutions are sufficient today, or whether it is the same as the Minister informed in the media (The Bell) that e.g. The German side, the representatives of this government, are not ready to sign a joint statement, an appeal for the return of stolen cultural goods to be sent to museums or private individuals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u290	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u291	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, Mrs Magdalena Ogórek, the author of the excellent book "Wächter's List," has stated many times that it is a very good idea to learn from the American Jewish community, which demanded an effective review of private collections in Germany, and the Germans have done such a review. That is exactly what Poland should do, we should demand from the Germans that these collections, which were stolen by German criminals, Nazis in Poland and are in private collections today, return to Poland. In this sense, the full agreement with Mr Jarosław Rzepa from the Polish People's Party should apply in this case to the absolutely suprapolitical agreement - that we should change the system of the recovery of property stolen in Poland during World War II and by the Soviets, and by the Germans in an absolute manner, also use NGOs as well as individuals, effectively recover this property, these monuments, which [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today they are in many German houses. The Germans should finally return the stolen property to us.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u292	Thank you very much. I understand that the Member called for his formation, because you are in charge, as I understood, when I started working six hours ago. And to Przylebski. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Minister Magdalena Gawin, to answer all questions. I have a question for the rapporteur if you would like to say something. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Are you sure? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, just your marshal. Witek drank me to cut back. But you're gonna say something briefly, aren't you? There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u293	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you so much for all your comments. I am glad that this law, which we are implementing into the Polish legal system, does not cause much controversy. In addition to one group, you have all supported this and I am deeply grateful for it. Indeed, as research shows, this is already the concern of all international organisations, that trafficking in monuments, especially archaeology, is the third source of funding for terrorist organisations after oil, trafficking in human beings. In third place are the monuments. I wanted to expand the context a little more. A few years ago, a very turbulent discussion took place in the European Parliament, during which, and rightly so, hypocrisy was alleged, I would tell the European Commission, but also the Members, that terrorism cannot be combated at the same time, tolerating or not putting a legal barrier to terrorist organisations which, as it turned out, smuggled various artifacts into the European Union and sold them within the Union. They were usually private collectors. So this directive is really important and important for us to implement this law throughout the European Union. I would like to widen one point right away. It does not matter whether Poland has an Islamic minority or not, but it is important to remember that Poland can be a transit country. It is very important that our customs officers also be equipped with certain legal tools that entitle them to stop the artifact, take over it, and punish the perpetrator. This is the first and most important issue and the whole context of this case. I have received many detailed questions, and I would like to answer some of them in writing. I would like to say immediately that this law does not concern restitution at all. Restitution issues were raised in the 1970s in UNESCO, because it was about developing a common convention. Just as we have international conventions to be a joint international convention on works of art plundered during World War II. Poland was very involved in this project because, as you know very well, in Poland this robbery during World War II is the only case of the previously planned action, developed in detail, of the whole plan which was then implemented during the war. This work was blocked by two countries, Japan and Germany. And indeed, to this day international organisations have not developed a convention that could also help strengthen Poland through the recovery of works of art. I think one thing we all need to understand is that certain issues should go in interparty agreement, and it is very important that we are aware of that. Because the current political conflict in Poland is certainly used not against the ruling party, not against the government, but against the whole of Poland. An argumented right hand never... And here, in fact, Mrs. Monika Grütters, who is the Minister of Culture at the Chancellor's Office, refused, although she had previously agreed, then withdrew, to include such an address to private art collection holders, including state museums, to review their own collections. I know it seems like a very soft tool, but this tool is an effective tool. She simply refused to write such a joint letter by the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Culture of Germany. Now, indeed, this call for our cultural committee to meet with the German culture committee seems a very good idea for one reason, because it is not the position of the whole German government, it is simply the personal policy of one person in the German government. Perhaps it would be good if other German Members found out that we have problems at this level. It's just a good idea. Members should talk to each other, should inform each other about certain matters. This issue is so important because this government, and any other government that comes after it, is going to be struggling with this case. Also, the more such meetings between Polish and German cultural committees, the better. I completely agree that this cannot be limited only to the activities of the Minister of Culture, because here there is also the role of NGOs in publicising these issues, and above all the role of international organisations, and here in principle we should all show solidarity, [[♪ The bell ♪]] both government and opposition. I'm almost done. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank you once again for supporting this project. It is with sadness that I note the opposition of the Confederation, which unexpectedly does not want to fight international terrorism, and I think we need to put a veil of silence on this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u294	Thank you very much, Minister. Rapporteur Jacek World. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u295	Mr. Marshal! I wasn't planning on speaking, but there's been a rather psychic situation. Namely, one of the messengers, the representative of the Left, did not refer in her speech to the project, but took a polemic with the Member who is absent in this Chamber, and in no way can he refer to these words. I just wanted to express my deep disapproval for such bizarre practices. By the way, as a member of the cultural committee, I confirm that my colleagues and I will ensure that this meeting on the restitution of cultural goods with the participation of ministers is held as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u296	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Culture and Media in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report of the Extraordinary Commission on the Government draft law amending the Law - Code of Civil Procedure and some other laws (prints No 899 and 1034). I ask Mr Piotr Sak to present a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u297	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Acting on the basis of Article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, as a empowered rapporteur, have the opportunity and obligation to present a report to the extraordinary committee on amendments to codification. There were very exciting and exciting discussions during the almost six-hour meeting. I think they'd satisfy a lot of law-abiding people. Both Members and representatives of a number of legal backgrounds have been discussing, atomizing, decomposing to the limits, absolutely atomizing issues concerning the bill. Mr Grzegorz Lorek and the representatives of the Ministry of Justice referred to the comments and signals submitted. In response to the committee's actions, we proposed nine amendments with Mr Grzegorz Lorek and myself. The rule, which so far seemed the most controversial, which caused the greatest emotions and larum from both Members of the opposition and representatives of the environment regarding the introduction of fiction of service one day and the electronic transmission of letters, has been modified, refined. Through a special application, a special portal will of course be limited the epistolar rotation in the form of a classic. So the problem that actually sounded... As a lawyer, I noticed some imperfections, I had some mixed feelings myself, because in some ways accepting such records would make the plenipotentiaries really watch over their own mailboxes. That wouldn't be an optimal solution. Secondly, I'm assuming there could be a new category of lawyers. It's about attorneys who would only act ad hoc during the trial. It seems to me that the change in this area is very important, and so far exaggerated arguments have been destroyed. During the committee meeting, of course, we also discussed changes in ordering and clarifying matters related to the new institution, i.e. e-merging, electronic bidding. The amendments also address issues relating to the separation of hearings. It is about introducing in a court of law to the parties who do not have technical conditions, are excluded digitally, the possibility of taking part in court proceedings at the court's seat. The new wording of the Article was also proposed. 7 concerning the dematerialisation of shares and the issue of certificates. There were also amendments to the revision of the assessment of the judicial assessor. They've been accepted. Ladies and gentlemen! Epilogue. The Extraordinary Commission asks the High Sejm to approve the draft law from print 1034 No. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u298	Thank you for the epilogue, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Grzegorz Lork of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u299	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are proceeding with the bill amending the Act - Code of Civil Procedure and some other laws, prints no. 899 and 1034. The aim of the project is to clarify civil proceedings during and one year after the pandemic. The purpose of the Act is to safeguard courts against exposure not only to workers but also to all participants in judicial proceedings. Identifying the case in this way, i.e. by means of a distance agreement, it complies with the principle of transparency and at the same time eliminates the epidemiological risk. Persons taking part in proceedings may stay at home, in a law firm or elsewhere if the court is serious. I would like to stress - it is very important - that without the permission of the court there will be no room in another procedure. Let me remind you that the bill regulates, among others. solutions for auctions from movable and immovable property. The above is a very positive interest from those involved in auctions and the media. The tender as part of the sale of real estate would be carried out in the electronic system. At present, there is no regulation enabling the tender to be conducted in such a way. A request for an electronic tender could be made both within the first and the second bidding dates. In the proposed digital version of the tender, a document describing and estimating the value of the property will be included in the electronic system operating the tender and will be available to a wide range of buyers interested in e-booking. The electronic tender is to last a week, following the example of functioning electronic auctions. In the European Union, court auctions are conducted online: Austria in cooperation with Germany, Croatia, Estonia, Finland, Spain, Latvia - only in case of real estate enforcement proceedings - Germany in cooperation with Austria, the Netherlands - only in case of real estate enforcement proceedings - Portugal, Hungary and Italy. It should be noted that tenders in the electronic system will be available to a wide range of buyers interested in purchasing real estate in enforcement proceedings, which, as can be expected, will promote more participants and achieve higher prices. In addition, this solution will contribute to simplifying and achieving transparency, ensuring a higher level of security for participants in procedural activities, reducing costs and significantly speeding up the process. Digitisation of proceedings due to the situation is a requirement of our time. The introduction of remote hearings and public hearings under current epidemic conditions is a solution to reduce the risk of life and health risks and, if any, to allow the use of any terminal device anywhere, reduces the burden of the participants in the proceedings. Last year showed that in crisis situations such as pandemics, remote work allows both companies and institutions to function properly. Therefore, such a solution should also be applied in the case of justice. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice I strongly recommend further proceedings over the bill. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the parliamentary club, I have the honour to make eight amendments that clarify or amend certain wordings. I hope that they will make the legislation a very good law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u300	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Jaśkowiak, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u301	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It will be brief, as requested by your marshal. Thank you very much. In presenting the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish and Green Initiative, I would like to submit a proposal to reject the draft law on amendment of the law - Code of Civil Procedure and some other laws in second reading contained in print No. 899. In a nutshell: the project is so sloppy that, as you can see, there has been a need to make another eight amendments today, with which I have not yet had the opportunity to get acquainted. The main submission for this project was the amendment of the Civil Procedure Code, which consisted in introducing the provisions in force concerning the execution of real estate in electronic form. All the changes you've been discussing so nicely before me... It did not appear to be noted that they were introduced as an additional and non-basic submission. I ignore the fact that the project itself contained at least a few articles which had already been adopted at the previous Sejm meeting and should not have been included in this project at all. I would like to point out that this article. 9, which my previous speakers discussed so widely, in the so-called mode. the COVID law introduces a number of solutions, including: the need to recognise cases at a secret meeting or matters relating to the recognition of cases by a single judge by a court. The cosmetic changes proposed by the party PiS-owska did not give rise to a decision on whether or not to dismiss reservations regarding violations of the Constitution - the infringement of the article. 2, 42 and 45. 1 and 2 Constitutions - and thus do not guarantee citizens the right to a fair trial. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u302	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Smishek, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u303	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Extraordinary Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code and some other laws, prints Nos 899 and 1034. The project that came out of the Extraordinary Commission is very complex. Touching, among others. the issue of enforcement proceedings, the activities of bailiffs. In some proposed regulations I see very good intentions, but as we know, good intentions are paved with hell. The first example, raised during the legislative work by the bailiffs, concerns the ICT system. Computerisation of the process, the creation of this ICT system, which will, after all, support over 2 000. The law firm at the same time... The bailiffs argue that the financing of this system by individual bailiffs is far from being possible today. It is also a dream to think that it will happen in a short time. There must be time to prepare for these changes. It is also a mistake to think that digitisation of paper files will go smoothly. But the biggest controversy is that there are laws where designers start to manipulate matters relating to the rules of judicial proceedings. Some time ago, from this speaker I spoke on behalf of the Left Club that he was moving in through the back door, as if on the occasion of a change that neither the constitution nor the basic standards of the rule of law had anything to do with it. Of course, it's done through the COVID Act. Why work on these issues in a good way? In the project we are dealing with an absolute mishmash. The bailiffs, electronic sales, the recognition of civil cases, as well as, of horror, the posting of judges - all in one bill. There is a breach of the basic principle of legislative technique, namely the prohibition of regulation in a single legal act of matters far from one another and subjectively, and subject matter. The bill puts the principle of civil procedure on the head, which is the principle of transparency. The obligation to hear cases in secret is introduced, without a hearing, and the principle that cases are dealt with by a court in the composition of a single judge. Such a solution significantly reduces the standard of a fair process. This is not in accordance with Article. 45 constitutions, as well as international rules, which guarantee the right to court as one of the fundamental human rights in a democratic state. The right to court is a procedural right which protects human rights in a material way, e.g. property rights or the need to protect human dignity. After all, international rules state that the right to a fair trial is the basis in a country that wants to be called democratic. In these regulations, I see a huge threat to this principle. What's all this about? You refer to the need to protect health and public safety in an epidemic or at risk of an epidemic also one year after it has ceased. What is the ratio legis of maintaining these provisions for one year after the date of cancellation of one of these states? During the legislative work, it has been argued on several occasions that ensuring the speed of the procedure indicated in the explanatory memorandum of the project is not a value for which the protection of subjective rights can be sacrificed. This is due to the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal. Practitioners: lawyers, lawyers, attorneys of the process showed during the Extraordinary Commission meeting how in practice, in the courtroom, the proposed rules can directly or indirectly affect the rights of the parties. Why don't you listen to the voices of those who are supposed to do their job on the basis of these standards, which results in our civil rights being taken care of? A common court is a court of fact. It is in the adversarial model that evidence is usually carried out at the meeting, even if it is being questioned by witnesses. Without this principle, it will be extremely difficult to explain the matter and establish objective truth. The principle of transparency serves not only the parties but also society as a whole. It serves the social control of the judiciary. And that's what a democratic state is all about. The proposals for rules on the principle of civil courts ruling both in the first and second instance in the composition of one judge are absolutely apprehensive, with little exceptions. Well, maybe we should remember the basic rules of review. Why are there multi-member warehouses? In order to examine the matter more thoroughly, guarantee the party the fairness of the proceedings and ultimately guarantee the exercise of the right to court and to a fair judgment. The principle of many pairs of eyes, in order to make an even more honest and thorough assessment of the case of a particular man, is to finally correct the error of the state, because on behalf of the Republic of Poland judgments are issued. This is a violation of the principle, which has been operating in procedural law in Poland for almost 100 years. Does this mean that these last 100 years have caused us to collapse the justice system? How can it be written in the explanatory memorandum that the judgment given by the court in composition [[♪ The bell ♪]] is one person as good as a three-member court ruling, given the experience of the last few decades? Given everything, the Left Club will vote against this project and submit a motion to reject this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u304	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u305	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Something today has been plagued by projects that, under the pretext of other legitimate ideas, contain a number of solutions that have corrupted the existing legislation that deprive citizens of their rights and freedoms. Nothing, I think, is wrong with what is the idea of starting out, i.e. the introduction of chamber e-biting in the event of having to carry out just like that. Only, Minister, it is good that this is the only thing dedicated to the project. However, as the previous speakers pointed out, unfortunately, this is not the end of the analysis of the content of the project. For example, the biggest and widely criticised change that the proposal is making is an increase in the number of classified decisions. Moreover, the formations of judges, as already indicated here today, are to be limited to one judge. The authors of the project translate these changes with the COVID-19 epidemic. This is the second such project, which actually limits or cuts the number of formations. It is really completely incomprehensible that this is being done. The project will burden the party represented by the proxy with the risk of possible errors and shortcomings. It's also a big flaw in this project. The draft introduces an obligation to investigate cases at a secret meeting without holding a hearing. This is also a non-serviceful solution, which the position of the person who stands in dispute also completely weakens. The bill puts on the head the principle of civil procedure, which is transparency. What is there to be afraid of when it comes to transparency in court proceedings? After all, this is one of the sacred principles on which it has so far been based for many decades. It cannot be that speeding up the recognition of the case is detrimental to the exercise of their rights by the parties, Minister. What's this for, who's it supposed to be for? All these principles contradict the provisions of the proposed law. They introduce a flagrant violation of the rights of the parties to the proceedings. Judicial proceedings will, according to the project, become inaccessible to the ordinary citizen, especially one who is deprived of legal assistance. After all, six years ago you promised Poles that you would improve access to legal assistance through your actions, and here is another proof that you completely deny it. Once again, you're trying to introduce rules against the constitution under the pretext of pandemics. That's the Crown's argument against this project. The COVID cannot be the cause of the overturning of rules that are already established in the judiciary, putting them on their head. This is a general reflection, which is not the first time that appears when another draft law is already being examined today. There is no justification for referring to the state of the epidemic, because the safety of both the judge, the parties to the proceedings and the judicial staff here is not much more important than the fundamental rights that arise and are to be secured, for example. through the transparency of the hearing. In the meantime, the courts have learned to function. We learned how to function during the epidemic. At present, there are appropriate means and opportunities not to exclude the transparency of the proceedings. These arguments and many others make the Polish Coalition club not see in this shape... We will examine the amendments that have been tabled, because this is something new that appears today. On the other hand, if they do not make any significant changes, we do not see the possibility of supporting this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u306	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u307	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The Code is a kind of safe for good, understandable rules and a pandemic cannot be an excuse to break into it. And this project is such a va banque, another step in balancing the safe of the law, without even paying attention to the constitutional rules. The action of va banque does not always cause sympathy. You will not get it, as Henry Quinta's group did in one of the most popular Polish films. Because how do you get sympathy if you break into a safe of the law and forget about the article? 45 constitutions, and even awake at night, should be pronounced fluently: everyone has the right to a fair and public hearing without undue delay by a competent, independent, impartial and independent court? You are also breaking Article. 6th European Convention on Human Rights. After all, even - and I say it with pure sympathy - Janusz Kowalski knows that this convention speaks of the right to a fair trial and that everyone has the right to have a fair, public hearing of his case within a reasonable period of time, precisely through an independent and impartial court. After a complex project, 15 opinions appeared. 15 opinions, and that's rare in the Seym. This means an alarm, because, ladies and gentlemen, the National Chamber of Patent Ombudsmen is concerned about some of the proposals. On 12 pages there were reservations from the Supreme Court. The National Council of Legal Counsels has indicated that single-member ruling in civil matters is not a correct solution. The Supreme Bar Council has alerted in two opinions, among others. in the opinion that it is not possible to convene at the request of the Judges of the General Assembly. She's been alerting me about proposals that are not in the Constitution. It's a lawyer's alarm, but it's also an opposition officer's alarm. You're not paying attention to this. In order not to go further into this rule of law so as not to drown in it, the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 makes further amendments, although of course this project should be rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u308	Thank you very much, sir, for the amendments. Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. I am closing the list of Members and Members of the Committee for Questions. I'm setting the time to ask questions for one minute. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u309	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! My question concerns the lack of adequate protection of personal data in the provisions of the Act. In its opinion, the Office for the Protection of Personal Data, the State authority, raised a number of reservations on this subject, indicating that the provisions of the project do not protect the personal data of citizens. Firstly, the IT system does not have clearly defined criteria to be met. No indication of who is the controller of personal data. How should this data be secured? The bill is very imprecise. Besides, in a few projects already Today we have such a situation that personal data is treated with great disregard. Ladies and gentlemen, this can't happen. We, as Members, cannot allow this to happen, because Poles will lose on this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] if their personal data are so widely made public and put at risk. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u310	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u311	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask whether only matters that are not restricted to access will be dealt with remotely or secret cases requiring safety certificates. If this is to be the case for all types of cases, who will bear the costs of installing encrypted networks? Will the judges be able to supply quite expensive hardware transmission encoding systems at their own expense and cover the cost of their installation and configurations? Does the project provide for full compensation for safety costs? Last question: Does each court currently have encoding devices that allow all judges to access the remote system at the same time, and does each court have links allowing them to handle as many remote cases at the same time, how many judges are employed at the same time? I would very kindly ask the Minister to give me the answer to my questions in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u312	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u313	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The project is the answer to the current situation we have in our country that none of us would want. I'm sure we'd like to get back to normal as soon as possible. Minister! Does the Ministry have any idea how many judges were suffering from COVID? How will the bill affect the speed of court work and the safety of judges? Because this is also an important dimension in addition to the issue of the safety of the participants in the proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u314	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u315	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! By introducing your pseudo-reforms of the judiciary, you told Poles that you wanted to speed up procedures, shorten the time of court proceedings. However, according to the report by NIK, the average time taken to deal with cases before Polish courts between 2011 and 2014 ranged between 4.1 and 4.6 months. In 2018, it was 5.4 months to reach 5.8 months in 2019. All the more obvious is that it wasn't about speeding up, it was all about politicising the judiciary in your deformity. This time, you want to limit the right to an impartial court to Poles by reducing the formations of judges in the second instance and the compulsory handling of cases at classified meetings. You want to speed up the trial again? Or maybe it's just that one judge who's gonna rule in private is gonna be easier to influence? Your answer is basically, I don't really expect it. I know what you're gonna say. On the other hand, I ask Poles: Do you want such a justice? Do you want Zbigniew Ziobro and his protégés to always make a decision in the end? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have to worry you. Poles don't want that. Last ranking of trust: 15% people, the lowest score, has confidence in Zbigniew Ziobra, 66% - distrust. And that's the answer. Poles for your pseudoreforms. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u316	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u317	Thank you kindly. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This alliance... This reflection came to me after reading this project, that the sacral language, which should be limited to the sacral places, is already entering very strongly into the legislative language, for example. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 986 I want to ask you what's in § 4. If several tenders are held simultaneously and one of them offers a price exceeding the total amount (the bell) of the claims due, the remaining tenders may be waived. Here's the condition that you can, but you don't need to. Question: "Why did the Ministry regulate the matter in such a way that it would reach a sufficient price in one of the tenders to cover its debts?" Why should the debtor dispose of those remaining assets if his debt has already been covered? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u318	Thank you, sir. Mrs Monica Falej, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u319	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Presented bill on the amendment of the law - Code of Civil Procedure was exceptionally criticised by legal environments. It will also be criticised exceptionally by citizens and citizens after their solutions have been put in place, because they will concern them. I understand that in a pandemic age, solutions are needed to facilitate the functioning of justice, governance, not the revision of the code, the availability of justice, because it will be limited. Cases should be handled fairly and openly, but why is the composition of the second instance reduced? That's the quality? That's the integrity? What are you afraid of, and what is it supposed to do? Why should the Act also apply one year after the pandemic? I don't get it at all. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u320	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u321	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I wanted to ask the Minister, although the Minister is busy, he does not listen: Are you familiar with the ministry's well-known position in the project and, in particular, the position concerning the exclusion of the transparency of the meetings? The lawyer makes it clear that secret meetings should be the exception - in cases where an online or stationary hearing cannot be held, and the state of the case makes it possible, in other words, if the good of justice does not require a hearing involving the parties. You cannot fire a child with a bath and lead to a situation where citizens will not be able to attend their own trials. Please respond in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u322	Thank you very much. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Minister Sebastian Kaleta to respond. Minister, you have five minutes. At the same time, I would like to thank the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Sak, for his resignation. Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u323	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are discussing a draft law to move the Polish judiciary - this is the next stage - from the paper era to the electronic era, which is why I am surprised that the voices that appeared in the positions of parliamentary clubs seemed to remain in the process of dealing with current cases in courts in a traditional manner. At the same time, you are somehow talking about the speed of proceedings and, on the other hand, you reject the technological improvement of the Polish judiciary from the vending machine. From this point on, I am consistently saying that the current management of the Ministry of Justice, as the paper justice system found, will leave so digital, because for several years we have managed to do a lot. Thanks to this law will be EKL, thanks to the changes and this law, any person who settles the case in the Polish court will be able to use the e-KRS, will be able to publish e-financial reports. This bill guarantees e-citations in real estate execution - a kind of bailiff Allegro, ladies and gentlemen, in colloquially speaking. Everyone will be able to make a fair bid and there will be no doubt that the auctions are set, because sometimes the media also describe that there are doubts about this - whether justified or unjustified. Citizens raise doubts that e.g. the bidding has not been conducted reliably. Now everyone will be able to participate in it. This is a change, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, which Poles are waiting for. Electronic service to attorneys is bothering you, too, High Izbo? I address here in particular the opposition. E-trials. At a time of pandemic, the whole world is conducting trials remotely. They will also work, they already work, but Polish courts will work even better. Thus, this bill guarantees the transition - in the next stage - of the Polish judiciary to a new era, to a new era of digital justice, which has been consistently implemented for years against what it proposes, does and makes opposition in this House. E-citations. High Izbo, despite the pandemic introduced by the Ministry of Justice, the reform of chamber executions has a gigantic result - from 20% to 24% of the effectiveness of executions. The quota execution is record-breaking in 2020 despite the lower value of claims made. In the year of the pandemic, High Izbo. This shows that the reform introduced by the Ministry of Justice is working. As is the reform that we propose in this submission. Now I'm going to answer some of the questions directly. Mr Paszyk lied, saying that the principle of this law is classified meetings. This is the last resort, sir. Because, first of all, it is assumed that there will be a remote, traditional hearing, if possible, but if all the circumstances do not allow such activities to be organised, then, as a last resort, it is possible, if there is no obstacle to this, to hold a secret meeting. So it's a last resort, not a rule, as you tried to formulate your thesis from this place. On the other hand, Mrs Czernow spoke about personal data. With regard to personal data in the e-lettering system, their protection and the functioning of this system result from the law on bailouts, because this system already functions as such, only in the field of mobility. This change we're proposing in the Code of Civil Procedure... Because the property auction option will be added to this system. Therefore, the protection of personal data will be ensured in this system, which is already in operation. On the other hand, the system itself will simply have a new usefulness, a new type of service provided. Now, here's the thing about... Mr Szopiński on classified hearings. After all, in civil proceedings a classified hearing is really an exception, an exception to exceptions, because this is possibly the matter of criminal law usually. Nevertheless, if such situations occur, the Act refers to traditional hearings. So it's obvious that if you do. Some military case, that kind of nature, will have to be held by the court in a private courtroom. So it's obvious, too. It was Mr Lorek's question about the number of COVID judges. A total number of judges, Ministry... At least I don't have that information. We'll try to find her after the meeting. However, the courts report daily and information is presented at the meetings of the crisis management team... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Marshal, may I? Please. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Sebastian Kalet: Thank you, Marshal. ...on the scale of the infection in the courts. Indeed, there are situations where there have been higher numbers in the courts concerned at certain times and the work of the courts has therefore been difficult. The courts shall keep this information up to date. This also applies to administrative and other staff. And indeed, the pandemic of Coronavirus is present in courts, just as in any other workplace and in any institution, in any company, because it is a pandemic. An epidemic is characterised by universality: it is simply possible to record cases of infection anywhere. This also applies to courts, and often it has also hindered the work of courts, so all the more so that courts can function efficiently when there are more waves, they are justified. The next question, Mr Mishalski's question, is about the speed of proceedings. First of all, I would like to point out that, in the previous term of office, the High House adopted an amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure and those statistics that are currently available indicate an acceleration of criminal proceedings. So the reform that the Ministry of Justice has prepared in this area is working. With regard to civil proceedings, where statistics show that these cases have been steadily increasing since 2011, although we have managed to slow down the pace of this growth in the previous term... The rate of growth is due to the number of cases, the burden of judges, we have a lot of judicial vacancies, and the amendment, which is to achieve such an effect as K.p.k., was adopted by the Polish Parliament at the end of the previous term of the Sejm, but a pandemic started several months after the entry into force, so the effects will necessarily be postponed because this amendment does not function in the normal regime. However, I am surprised that, on the one hand, the Member expresses his concern about the speed of proceedings and, on the other hand, criticizes the solutions to improve this. For this reason, also Mr Suchoń... Mr President, as regards the situation with the concept of "offering," this is not the concept of religious nature in Polish law, it is the concept that has been present in the Polish legal order for more than 80 years because of the fact that "offering" means making an offer. And this concept is present in the Polish legal order, for example in the article. 200 pre-war law on judicial enforcement. This is the President's regulation of 27 October 1932. This concept in the Polish order of civil procedure is still present today, so I am surprised that it arouses your interest. Nevertheless, it is always worth to enrich knowledge also from the history of Polish law. High Izbo! In conclusion, the bill submitted is needed not only because of the pandemic, but also because of the need for the Polish justice system to take another step in digitization. Digitization has progressed dynamically in recent years. This bill will increase the availability of courts, increase the pace of court proceedings, as well as increase the effectiveness of executions, because each of us will be able to participate in auctions without having to go to court. These are very important changes, which is why I ask the High House to adopt this bill. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u324	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was notified to the proposed amendment, pursuant to Article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I am directing this draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications in order to submit a report. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on: I kindly ask Mr Tomasz Ławniczak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u325	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy carried out the first reading of two draft laws: a governmental bill on the amendment of the law on local government, a law on district government and a law on local government, it is a print no. 1014, and a Senate bill on the amendment of the law on local government and some other laws, that is, a print no. 990. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, having consulted the Sejm Bureau, on 16 March 2021, forwarded the draft Print Act No 1014 to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for its first reading. According to the above mentioned provisions, your Marshal also addressed the draft law from print no. 990 to the two above mentioned. the committee. A lively discussion took place during the first reading. The intention of all speakers followed in one direction and the differences concerned specific issues. The current state of law takes into account the functioning of youth councils with local government units only at municipal and municipal level. This is generally described in the Act of 8 March 1990 on municipal government. Both projects take into account the possibility of working youth councils also at two higher levels of local government, i.e. in the district government and in the voivodship government. The proposal submitted to the High House will undoubtedly contribute to activating young people and increasing their participation in public life. The high committees that carried out the first reading indicated as the base and leading government project in print no. 1014. The Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, following the first reading and consideration of these draft laws at its meeting on 25 March 2021, invite the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law contained in print No 1036. At the same time, I inform you that the committees in accordance with the article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall, at the request of the applicants, submit five minority proposals. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u326	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented to the High House by Mr Andrzej Kryj. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u327	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present a position vis-à-vis the government's draft law on the amendment of the law on local government, the law on district government and the law on local government, print no. 1014, whose primary purpose is to institutionally strengthen youth councils at local government units. A little history to begin with. The idea of establishing youth councils with local self-government units emerged after 1989 and was the result of democratic changes that took place in Poland at the time. As a result, youth councils began to form in many cities. The first such city was Częstochowa, where on 19 September 1990 children's council and youth council were established. This was of a bottom-up nature because there were no legal provisions at the time that would regulate this issue. Such a provision was introduced into the Municipal Government Act in 2001, i.e. after 11 years. This was the article introduced at the time. 5b. Although youth councils were created also in powiats, and youth sejmiki - in voivodships, unfortunately these changes, art. 5b, did not concern these levels of self-government. And so, in fact, we have been in a state of some sort of legal void for 19 years. It is worth noting that art. 5b The law on local government is short and does not say much about youth councils, although according to recent data the problem concerns 514 communes, 63 powiats and 12 voivodships. Therefore, the draft law submitted is expected and needed and should be welcomed. It includes provisions that take into account the functioning of youth councils in the district and voivodship authorities, institutional strengthening of youth councils in the local self-government units and ensuring that youth councils operate more efficiently with the possibility of increasing the impact on local communities. It is worth noting at this point that these intentions of the legislator meet the expectations of youth communities. They have been repeatedly articled, among others. During the Parliamentary Group's deliberations. Supporting Youth Councils in the Units of the Territorial Self-Government, and were included in the analysis entitled: On youth councils prepared in 2018 by the Council of Children and Youth at the Minister of National Education. The amendment of these laws was also recommended by the Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation in its October 2020 resolution. The proposed changes include: clarify the mechanism for setting up youth councils with local self-government units, giving the possibility to submit a request for a council, among others. non-governmental organisations and student and student authorities, the body which will have to respond to such a request, clarify the tasks of youth councils and strengthen their position. The introduction of these necessary and beneficial changes is extremely important. We are still talking about the need to strengthen the civic participation of Polish youth at local level. This will allow for the rules that we will now introduce. This is particularly important when sociological studies show that, unfortunately, most young people are not interested in politics either locally or nationwide. This should be a warning bell for all of us. The proposed changes give the opportunity to increase the level of civic education of young people so that they can gain public and social experience. Young people spoke about the need for legal changes in this area during, among other things, the need for legal changes. of the Permanent Sub-Committee meeting on This was confirmed by the large-scale public consultation of young people, which resulted in many major amendments to the first draft. I am aware that there may be other good proposals that our club will consider and support during the further process of this law. Finally, I would like to point out that the 2019 election programme of Law and Justice included in the chapter "Freedom and social activity" in the sub-section "Objectives" that: there will be an improvement in the institutional position of the youth councils of municipalities by increasing their competence towards greater independence in public life and the obligation to initiate procedures for their creation when this initiative receives significant support in the local community and similar provisions on the creation of youth councils will be introduced into the system of voivodship and district authorities. The project submitted fulfils this obligation. In view of the above, I have the honour to inform the High Sejm that Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour [[♪ The bell ♪]] government draft law on amendment of the law on municipal self-government, the law on district self-government and the law on local government. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u328	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will present to the High House Mrs Kinga Gajewska. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u329	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to stress that we absolutely support the project, especially because it is a project proposed by the Senate. It was thanks to the Senate that the government of law and justice took care of this matter at all. The Senate has drawn up a specific law, which was preceded by a very long public consultation with the youth community, and such a consultation has also been carried out by the government. Here we would already end our praises for the government, because the consultation itself aroused a lot of controversy, e.g. how politicians treat young people. These young people see it. Well, you asked them questions during the winter break, knowing very well that these holidays were going on, so most of the youth advice could not even answer these questions, because it is written in the statutes that they could not work during the winter break. Secondly, you sent such questions about the law to non-existent organizations, e.g. to the Warsaw youth district councils. But, of course, you were happy to send them to your right-wing organizations for which you were waiting for answers. The issue of funding is also doubtful. Well, the plenipotentiary spoke beautifully at the committee's meeting about expanding the competences and providing funding for the activities of youth councils. On the other hand, the local authorities were not transferred either a zloty to carry out this new task from an additional envelope for local governments for the activities of youth councils. The second issue of funding, which raises a number of doubts, is the level that you point to in the impact assessment. Well, you are telling us that the costs that will be incurred by all local government units are about 840 thousand. Every year for all youth advice. And now let's confront this number with the number of youthful counsels to arise. It is supposed to be 2293, because the law regulates both municipal and district councils as well as youth sejmikas of the voivodship. With the average number of members of this body, i.e. 23 councillors making up the council, it turns out that the annual cost of work of one youth councilman will be PLN 15 according to the government, which on a monthly basis gives a zloty, exactly PLN 1.30. It is worth asking what youth advice can do for 367.22 PLN per year. Well, very little, and as we can see from many different counsels, young people are really active. Here you are pointing out that you are authorising youth councils to consult on the strategic decisions of the government. This calls for a review of the activities of the youth council at the Minister of National Education, which is absolutely ignored by the Minister. It is very political and very stubborn, because it contains practically all youth activists of Law and Justice. What if this advice is against government policy, let's say? When the last e.g. She prepared a report on remote teaching, and this one was devastating, just devastating to the government, it was the minister who dared to notice that it was outrageous, and he did not allow such a report to be published. So, as I said at the outset, how we treat young people, we say that we involve them in the decision-making process, that we want to treat them subjectively, that means nothing. We really need to treat them subjectively. And as they will be treated, so they will treat the next generations later. So I'm also asking the Minister to come to his senses. We make a few amendments regarding carers, obligationability, as well as the appointment of such advice. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I am very pleased to hear from Mr Andrzej Kryj, who said that you would be happy to accept such amendments. Thank you, Member. Unfortunately, this is not confirmed by the work within the committee, because all the amendments were rejected, but we have tabled them as minority proposals and I very much hope that you will take a positive look at them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u330	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Parliamentary Club will be presented to the High House by Mr Marcin Kulasek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u331	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Government and Senate submissions concern the regulation of the legal status of youth councils of local self-government units. The possibility of creating youth councils of municipalities was created in 2001 by the amendment of the Act of 8 March 1990 on municipal government. Since then, more than 500 youth councils of municipalities have been established in Poland. In the Polish legal order, however, there was no authority for youth councils operating with other units of local self-government. This is primarily about youth sejmikas and youth councils of powiats. The amendments contained in the draft require the municipalities to consult young people on the content of the Youth Councils and to regulate the rules for the appointment and dismissal of the guardian of the youth councils of municipalities, as well as the nature of cooperation between them and the youth council. As He Prays The Federation of Young Social Democrats, a decisive influence on the establishment of a youth council guardian, should be on the young people themselves. In addition, the FMC believes that if the idea of involving young people in their own and local affairs is established in Poland, the High House should consider giving more powers to youth councils in the future. In recent months, young people have shown how much they appreciate freedom and the right to decide their fate. The demonstrations against taking away women's right to choose were a great proof of the civic awareness of the young generation. Until now, students have received civic education lessons in schools. During the protests against women's hell, students and students taught the whole community a lesson in civil activism and patriotism. I bow to a young generation who has shown that he will not be able to take his freedom, will fight for it until victory. She's gonna fight murder, sniff at minorities and social inequalities. A similar lesson has been taught to older generations by young people participating in the Youth Climate Strike. It is young people who point to the direction of society as a whole. We are growing a generation for which democracy is a natural environment for functioning, able to use tools and institutions typical of a democratic society. They're not afraid to go out on the streets, even if they're threatened by a police baton or a gas sprayer. At the same time, they are prepared for substantive discussion and constructive work. The task of the State is to facilitate their use of democratic institutions of the state and local government, and therefore the Left welcomes the proposed bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u332	Thank you. And Mrs Monica Falej, also the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u333	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Senate and Government projects on amending the laws concerning local governments, regional governments and local governments are identical. They contain solutions that provide opportunities for youth advice to be established and operated. The Left and I personally always strengthen the voice of young people and allegiate to their needs. We assume that they themselves should have the greatest impact on their fate and the right to self-determination. An important role in this activity in public and self-government life... It is this activity that is important, which is why we have worked very closely in the consultation on this project. The Act strengthens youth councils with local government units. This project was mainly developed as part of a consultation and dialogue with youth communities, although it is well known that not all of them did and did not do so without certain slippages. The legal framework for the functioning of youth councils and seymists at district and voivodeship levels and the clarification of existing regulations on youth councils of municipalities are long-awaited changes in the right direction. These are specific tools, forms of funding and opportunities to increase youth participation in social and public life. The position of youth councils in municipalities is also strengthened. It simplifies the principles of calling advice, gives them new competences and gives them the opportunity to choose the guardian or nanny they want to cooperate with. An important element is to support young people so that they can gain experience and pursue their passions through active participation in the formation of their local communities. On behalf of the Left Club, I request the adoption of a bill. I personally thank all young people, youth councils, the Democratic Club for working on this project. You've shown that you can do this despite your difficulties. I am proud of you and I believe that the amendment of the article. 5b will translate into the results of your civic activity. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u334	Thank you very much, Member. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition will address Ms Urszula Nowogórska, remotely. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u335	Good morning, Marshal. I hope you can hear me well. It's good to hear. Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Koalicja Polska - PSL Club - Union of European Democrats - Conservatives, I have the honour to present a position on the governmental draft law on amending the law on local government, the law on district government, and the law on local government and the Senate draft law on amending the law on local government and some other laws, print no 1014, 990 and 1036. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I fully support this project, all the more so since in my parliamentary storm I have set up a team of young experts who have repeatedly pointed out the need to strengthen youth councils at the levels and in the powiats and voivodships, so I am all the more pleased that such a project can actually be conducted today. This is a long-awaited law which will increase the involvement of young people, above all, in public life. Reinforcing youth councils, which will arise as consultative, advisory and initiative bodies, will make young people gain a tool at the level of municipalities, powiats and voivodships to influence the life and development of local communities and communities. This mechanism will also make it possible for young people to gain knowledge and experience in public and social activity through working in youth councils. This will also raise the awareness of civil society and make young people regain the need to build up the meaning of the words: responsibility, community, development of small homelands. The law itself will facilitate the appointment of youth councils and seymists at the county and voivodeship authorities. Youth communities, NGOs, students' authorities and students' authorities will be able to apply for a council. Youth councils and seymikas will have the right to request a resolution initiative. They will have the right to adopt resolutions on young people. They will be able to participate in the development of strategy papers for young people. Local government units will have to provide technical, technical and financial support to youth councils. It would be worth pointing out that it would be appropriate to prepare a financial envelope to be strengthened by municipal authorities so that they could allocate these government funds to the operation of youth councils. Young people are full of enthusiasm and ideas. They have a lot to say and it's worth listening to. In youth councils and seymists, they will have the space to express their views, opinions and ideas. Young people will also learn to cooperate with already active councils at the level of the commune, district and voivodship. They will learn responsibility and build strong small homelands. It will be a generation that will be responsible for democracy, the community, the nation and Poland. My club fully supports this bill, all the more so because it consumes a project submitted by my club earlier and also consulted with a democratic club. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u336	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krystian Kaminski will speak on behalf of the Confederacy Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u337	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! These bill projects, government project and senate project on the functioning of youth councils at local government units are practically identical. Therefore, I think that we could calmly proceed, saying that this is a joint project of the entire Sejm. There's no need, like the PiS rep said, to say that this is your project, that you led it. There's no need to talk about how the lady from the Platform said they had put it in the Senate earlier, and that's why it's their project. Let's agree that this is a joint sejm project, and let's show young people that there are times when we can work together without saying that someone is driving, not the other side. It's a good thing that after all these years we finally regulate this subject. We give young people a chance to function under normal conditions. What are the most important solutions in this project? It gives greater legal certainty to youth councils, facilitates the establishment of youth councils and seymists. It introduces a legal basis allowing the creation of youth councils and seymists at the county and voivodship authorities. It offers the opportunity to apply for a council for youth environments, non-governmental organisations, student and student authorities. It extends the competence of councils and seymists. Youth councils and sejmikas will have the right to request the adoption of a resolution initiative by the competent authority constituting the units of the local government concerned. Young people will be given the right to comment on draft resolutions on young people. Youth councils and seyms will be able to participate in the development of strategy papers for young people. Local government units will have to provide the necessary substantive, technical and financial support to youth councils and seyms. I would like to refer to the subject of financial support, because I would like us to find a compromise to ensure that this support is provided. If young people are to gain experience with seymists, it is good that they have some budget that they can afford to spend on their own affairs. It would also teach them responsibility for money. Then it would be easier for these young people to enter the councils of municipalities, cities, powiats, seymists, once they can do so. It will also teach them a more responsible job with money. It would be good if we could find a better solution for funding within the budget that they could have at their disposal. The fact that such advice is needed is borne out by many people who have come out of the counsel, who then began to act in politics, in local governments. For them it was a good school, a good rubbish, good experience in the work - but let's call it a political one after all. One such example is the person to whom I am about to vote, a colleague of Arthur Dziambor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u338	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Dziambor, also the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u339	Good morning. Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I was gonna say... Thank you very much to Mr Krystian Kaminski, who has already announced this. I wanted to say, it's rare that I'm personally delighted by a bill. As you know, in opposition it is rare that opposition is delighted at all by some law. In this case, I must say that - as my colleague Kaminski said - when I was 16 years old, I became president of the Gdynia Youth Council, and when I was 17 years old, I became president of the Pomeranian Youth Sejm. These were my first steps in youth activity, precisely in politics, not yet exactly in political reality, but in some self-government, at such a high level. It was a really beautiful adventure. To this day, I still have contacts with the people we were building it with. Some of these people today are in politics, both national and local. So that the school was rehearsed and for many people it ended very well. So that I am glad that after more than 20 years from that moment, when I finished my work as the leader of the youth council of the city, we talk about it in the Seym. Of course, I would like this bill to find its positive finale, but also to be fully accepted by the local authorities, i.e. I know that at this point there are youth councils of cities, districts, etc. in some places, but I wish they were actually everywhere. I wish local politicians would accept that. I hope that this will be implemented in such a way that everyone is happy with it: both young people and adult politicians who manage their communities. I'll support that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u340	Thank you, sir. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050 Parliamentary Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u341	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We have heard a lot of praises here, which are well deserved, for this project, many good words came out, veteran memories, while we want to say: more democracy, real democracy in the hands of Polish youth. Unfortunately, we do not see the desire to give the full voice to the young people and give them some responsibility so that they can learn democracy in action so that they can decide their own affairs. We see here a clear message: you have, play, but on our own terms, we will watch over you every step of the way and approve everything. Unfortunately, it's a little bit like this. In your project, dear government, you say this to the young people: you can play democracy, but from now on, that's all we're gonna let you do. Of course, we cannot disagree with the praises that have already sounded here. However, the government decided not to give the youth advice an initiative role, limiting their role to the consultative function. This will be a big loss for local communities, because it is often the young people who bring creative ideas, non-conventional ideas and, above all, their own. Nor will I dwell on how a curial model of funding for youth councils is proposed by the state, hoping that the councils will meet rarely and their members will be less active. For one councilman according to the OSR, there is PLN 1.31 per month. However, you are famous for being stingy about the tasks of local governments, so here on our part there is no surprise. Another thing is how you legally try to install a mechanism to silence young people uncomfortable for a given composition of the local government. We believe that in the event of an application, the youth council or the sejm should simply be appointed, without the possibility of giving a ban to any organisation for the following year. However, moving within the framework envisaged by the government, on behalf of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050, I submit two packages of amendments. First of all, let the youngsters create their own statute. Currently, the bill says that it is the adult council that gives the youth council the statute. And I'm like, "Why?" Creating an act like your own statute is a crucial moment for every democratic body, and you are trying to do this to young people, or you can even maintain complete control. Let the young ones at least create an original version, which the council or the seymist will work on anyway. It's a small step, but it's in the right direction. Secondly, since the issue of carer choice is governed by the statute adopted by the adult council or the seymist, why not allow the youth council to choose the guardian itself? According to the project, this is still to be done by an adult council from among its youth equivalent candidates. And yet, the rules of choice are already influenced by the adult council because it approves the wording of the statute. It's just manual control. Poland 2050 will of course support this project, because it is a big step forward. However, I urge us to take young people seriously. I particularly urge the government side to lean on the amendments. Let's go after the punch, because we have a chance together to give more subjectivity to young people who make up youth councils and seismics. I would also like to thank all the youth organisations that participated in the work on this law, and for my part in particular A generation of 2050. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u342	Thank you, Member. Let's get to the questions. 27 parliamentarians came to the questions. I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. Ms Iwona Maria Kozłowska, the Civic Coalition, will ask the first question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u343	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The government bill on which the Sejm is working today provides for the principle of the functioning of youth councils, their appointments at the councils of municipalities, powiats and seymikas. In this respect, it shall also define the competences, tasks and rights of those councils. The project also sets out the responsibilities of local authorities to provide them with administrative and office services. Undoubtedly, the calling of youth councils is extremely important in the area of deepening Polish democracy. Today we see how easy it is for this democracy to take advantage of a small group of people with a specific political profile whose ideas have nothing to do with democratic principles. I have a question: Is this because youth advice will be able, among other things? submit proposals for legislative initiatives, have the opportunity to opinion draft resolutions, will have the right to participate in the development of strategic documents, the law guarantees legal advice in their work, which is certainly of great importance for the proper functioning, shaping and preparation of future documents. [[♪ The bell ♪]] generations to participate in the democratic institutions of our country? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u344	Thank you, Member. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u345	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Supporting youth councils is an extremely good idea, very necessary, especially as we know the cases of some small municipalities where it is difficult to find candidates for councillors or create competition in running for councillors. That is why such encouragement for social participation is absolutely right. The bill is not perfect, and it probably cannot be perfect, because a better law could be prepared only on the basis of experience, preferably young people who, hopefully, in a year or two years' time, will help the committee to make the changes they would have wanted, e.g. changes related to what they experienced about the budget mentioned or about the guardian - I hope it will not be a man from the uncle or any party person - or about networking, because I hope that these people will cooperate with the school government, or maybe the student government. And here's the question to the ministry of whether this is how he approaches it or if he's going to (the bell) deploy the appropriate cell to monitor these changes, so that we can meet in a year's time or two years' time in committee... Thank you, sir. ...and make changes to this law that result from the experience of youth councils. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u346	Thank you, sir. Mr Paweł Lisiecki, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u347	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This government bill was discussed at the Parliamentary Group meeting. Supporting Youth Councils in the Units of the Territorial Self-Government, because it really concerns the functioning of these youth councils and supports this important idea. Members of the parliamentary team, during the discussion of the project, proposed five amendments concerning, first, the inclusion of representatives of the youth councils of counties and youth sejmists in the Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation, second, the initiative of the resolution council of the Sejmists on the establishment of youth councils and youth sejmists, thirdly, shortening the annual withdrawal to 6 months when submitting a request for a youth council, fourthly adding in the provisions defining the nature of the youth council adjective and fifthly strengthening the powers of youth councils and sejmists by providing them with the possibility to address questions to the executive body of the local government unit. Minister, will such amendments be supported by the government? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm making five amendments, Marshal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u348	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u349	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My personal experience with local government shows how important the element of dialogue with civil society is. Young people have a need to be active in public. The establishment of councils not only at the municipal level, but also at the county or the sejm of the Wielkopolska voivodship, as is apparent from my personal experience, but also from the experience of the region, Wielkopolska, shows how excellent these initiatives are. And we really need less formalism, and a little more, so to speak, to believe that these young people are active and creative, and are able to guide - which is the essence of this activity - these matters in the right way. For example, participation in the debates of young people in Oxford is how they formulate their views on how they will emulate them. It seems to me that this is one of the elements needed to make this formal, perhaps, party of the organization make that they will not (the bell) have to express some of their views on the streets, while in the local government they will have a decent place to express their opinions and views. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u350	Thank you, sir. Mrs Kinga Gajewska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u351	Dear Marshal! High Seym! As I said before, we have tabled some amendments and I would like to ask the government if it would be favourable, for example. amendments to the mandatory appointment of the Council. You are proposing that when the Council rejects a proposal for a Council during one term at the very beginning of this term, it will be only a year before it can submit a proposal. So practically when there is one advice, it will most likely reject this conclusion for five years at a time. Secondly, the period when it can submit an application - only after a year - is too long. We propose to shorten it to six months. In this respect, an amendment was proposed by the parliamentary team. We'd like to ask you about the guardian question. The State does not propose the mandatory presence of such a guardian, but it seems that care should be absolutely ensured. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Caregiver function is essential especially in the case of newly created youth councils, as this is youth At 13 years old, 14 years old... Thank you. ...and the guardian will be absolutely needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u352	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u353	High Izbo! Youth advice is needed, just as senior advice, public benefit advice is needed. Or perhaps in the future other environmental councils, such as the Council of Entrepreneurs or even those elected in the elections of the intermediate Councils, who have so far been poorly represented, will also be needed, can be said, at the municipal level. I would also like to point out that the fact that the government is competing with the Senate for this initiative would cause young people to say that the government simply does not have a leeway, because there are areas where it is possible to take the initiative of Members and even of the opposition. And here is the question whether you do not see a discrepancy between the regulations on youth councils and senior councils, both in terms of the volume of the legal act itself and the delegated powers, because you are giving tasks to youth councils, as you are also talking about the initiative (the bell) of the resolution. I'm saying there's been a tilt and an inequality here about these two levels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u354	Thank you, sir. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u355	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! As a person who started public activity 23 years ago with a youth council, I am delighted to first accept the Senate project and now the government one. And here I agree that it is rare that we go in the same direction. I think it's important to stress that this is the project that doesn't divide us. On the other hand, it seems that any change that will guarantee the autonomy of the youth council in terms of power, both in terms of acting and implementing at the level of local government units, any change that will recognise that there are young people in these councils who are able to decide for themselves, will deserve support. I have no doubt that, over time, we will probably also be updating these regulations, but just as many of us have started working in the youth council, so probably many of us will end up in senior council. And here - I would like to strengthen this message - there is a discrepancy. I'm convinced, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that in the near future we will also proceed to the Act of Change on Senior Councils. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u356	Thank you, sir. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u357	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen! Youth councils of municipalities are excellent places to build interest from young people with civic activity and local government activity. Today, these youth councils of municipalities, which are already in operation, have proved their actions to be very needed. It was often their activities that were embarrassed by the lack of those rules that are emerging today, concerning administrative and technical services, financing, or a guardian. There's no such thing as senior advice. It is a matter of technical-logistics protection and the possibility to bear costs in connection with coming to the Council meeting or representing the Council on other bodies. I would like to ask the government if, in the context of the dissemination of the civil state (the bell) on the Government's Civil Initiative Fund, a programme could not be launched which would be addressed to these youth councils of municipalities in order to raise the citizens' awareness of their members... Thank you. ...cooperation and integration. It would be a very important module. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u358	Thank you, sir. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u359	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The possibility to evaluate draft resolutions concerning young people, the possibility to participate in the development of strategic actions of the local government unit for young people, the possibility to monitor the implementation of strategic documents for young people, but also simply the possibility to take action for young people on the principles defined by the council of the municipality, the district or by the sejmik of the voivodship, in particular in the field of civic education of young people, and also the promotion of self-government ideas among young people are very important. Of course, the participation of young people at local level can be increased by more effective youth councils, but in my opinion, the proposed changes lack regulation which would result in monitoring youth advice work and also an opportunity to evaluate their work. Why is such an element not included? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u360	Thank you. Mr Marek Rutka, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u361	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Practically the only fully successful reform carried out after 1989 is self-government reform. It should therefore be accepted that local governments are given the key task of civic education of young people from the perspective of the future of the Republic of Poland. The main idea of the proposed amendment is to increase civic participation of young people at local level through effective youth councils. Here, it is worth calling on the Minister for Education and Science to introduce the experience of over 30 years of youth councils into the general education programme. All those who are concerned about the quality of the political class and the level of public debate should be concerned that young people have the opportunity to have a really high level of civic education. Promoting the idea of youth councils working with local governments is the best opportunity for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u362	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u363	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Youth councils are an excellent school of self-government and democracy. But what's the reason... Have you conducted, the applicant country, the analysis, or do you have such analyses? What is the reason that within 20 years there were only 500 councils in the municipalities, and we have 2.5 thousand of them.? There was no legal interference. Therefore, there is a reason for this little interest among young people elsewhere. It has already been mentioned that the guardian is very important. It should be a person chosen by young people and it cannot be a person required by someone, e.g. The director says he's supposed to take care of her. It should be someone who feels these things. Why? Because the youth council must have an initiative, it must be innovative. If the council only gives an opinion, I think it'll get bored soon, and I've been working with young people for many years. On the other hand, it is very important that she can initiate her projects, and that the maintainer should correct these projects, adapt them to local opportunities, to the place where the council operates. So that I think that this project will have to work well so that we do not have 500, but much more advice in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u364	Thank you, Member. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u365	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A few weeks ago, I was approached by young people from my county, the Gryphic one, asking for help in setting up such a council in the county. I heard then that young people want to influence what's going on in the county, they want to influence society, they want to influence their future. It wasn't easy because there were no legal standards to make it possible to establish a council. They came to me because they were looking for help from me. That is why I am delighted that, along with the new legislation, a legal basis will be put in place for the creation of youth councils at all levels. But in preparation for today's meeting, of course, I also took note of the reasons for this law. I already mentioned today that reading the justifications of government projects can give many impressions, but when it comes to what I read in the explanatory memorandum to the Youth Council Act, my jaw fell. And now it's for you, my opposition colleagues. I quote: The project implements the obligation to choose directly (the bell) in the election programme of the Law and Justice of 2019 - the chapter "Freedom and civic activity', subsection "Cele', paragraph 7, p. 205. End of quote. Do you really, dear friends of the PiS, believe that such a justification is meant to encourage Members of the opposition to vote? After all, I will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u366	And yet it encouraged me. Thank you very much. Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Coalition... I'm so sorry. Mr Michał Grammar, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u367	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, thank you very much for this bill. It's a good law. On the other hand, I wanted to talk about what could not be written in articles and paragraphs. I had the honour and pleasure to be the guardian of the Silesian Youth Sejm at the end of the local government's term of office, i.e. just before the betrayal of Kalza, which caused the Silesian self-government to pass into your, PiS, hands. And what happened to the youth sejmik, who functioned in the local government of the Silesian Voivodeship? First, they were canceled with Professor Starowicz because it was illegal. Then the young councillors learned that instead of playing local government, they should take care of the holes in the roads in their cities and municipalities. Finally, one of the councillors at the meeting at the marshal's office heard that he should support pro organisations Life, instead of dealing with stupid things like the Women's Strike. Sometimes there are fundamental differences between us, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But let us not forget that we must have respect for ourselves, even for those who think extremely differently. It can't be written in the paragraphs. That's just what you need to know. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u368	Thank you very much. Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u369	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today, the special duty of this House, our duty, is to increase the powers of the young generation, to increase the powers of young people who want to participate in public life. That is why I am pleased that in recent weeks we have been so actively discussing the shape of a law that can increase these powers. Today is our key and special duty, we owe it to young people. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I also hope that tomorrow, at the committee meeting and then in plenary, we will adopt the amendments tabled at second reading in order to increase this activity and the potential for young generation activity even more strongly. This is today, once again, our duty. And all those, especially the young people who took part in the action. [[♪ The bell ♪]] on the fact that this bill should be today updated, in a special way, thank you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u370	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Józef Ratchurek-Żelazko, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u371	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased that this project, the government project, is already being discussed in this Chamber today. I am also pleased that the majority of the opposition supports this project, although sometimes it is difficult to understand what your final position is, because on the one hand you are supporting and on the other hand you are criticizing. It is very good that young people will be able to participate more in society, that they will be able to carry out initiatives, that they will be able to evaluate all the regulations that concern local societies. On the other hand, I have a question for the Minister because there were many doubts about whether this project was being consulted. In that case, Minister, what is the position of the Joint Government and Government Committee on this matter? Were these proposals which the opposition is currently making on the committee of the common government and government, and what was the committee's position on these matters? I would also like to stress that this project (the bell) indicates specific amounts that will be transferred to local governments to carry out this task. And a question for the Minister. Because since 2001, there have already been laws in the legal space that give us the opportunity to... Thank you. ...the formation of youth councils of municipalities, did the municipalities therefore receive any funds for the functioning of the councils or not? Thank you very much, Member. At this point I would like to thank you very much for working with the Brzesko Youth Council. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u372	Thank you, Member. Mr Andrzej Kryj, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u373	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The representative of the Civic Coalition, i.e. the total opposition, stated, contrary to the obvious fact, that the Senate project was better and that it was subject to much more consultation than the government. So I have a question: how did the government project consult, how many amendments have been tabled, which of these amendments, as far as the quantity is concerned, have been accepted? And ad vocem to Mrs Kinga Gajewska I would like to say that I said in my club speech that perhaps in the course of further proceedings of the law there may be other good proposals that our club will consider and give them any support. Affirmative. If these are good proposals, we will consider and support them. Make a wise, thoughtful state. Because unfortunately, there are very few proposals on your part. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u374	Thank you, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u375	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I hope that the local authorities will not be afraid that young people who already have their knowledge of their affairs will look at their hands and have sufficient maturity to separate the good from the evil, the truth from the false and the facts from the ordinary bullshit. The contested bill certainly does not meet all the expectations of Members who want the success of the ideas of youth councils of municipalities, powiats and voivodships. However, I believe that because of the importance of this law for democracy in Poland, we should all support this bill. Similarly, I would like to ask the government and the PiS side to ensure that similar solutions in terms of organizational, technical and financial assistance are guaranteed by functioning senior councils in Poland. That is what I appeal to (the bell) of you. I ask you kindly to answer my questions in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u376	Thank you, sir. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u377	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is, of course, very good that the Sejm finally leaned over youthful advice, because the breath of local government, the promotion of active citizenship is most desirable, especially among young people. Besides, these youth councils already operate in 500 municipalities. On the other hand, I would like to ask whether it would be appropriate to define more precisely the ways in which the youth council can be chosen and who can be part of it, that is, the age framework. For imagine that in one municipality such advice will be made up of people aged 14 and 18, in the other 20 and 25, in the third 30 and 35 - even young people up to the age of 35. Assuming, of course, the full success of this project and the fact that these youth councils will be established in every municipality, in every local government unit, that we will want to further develop this project, pass on to such youth councils further competences and create forms of cooperation, whether such differences between youth councils in different units [[♪ The bell ♪]] will not create organisational problems in cooperation or in developing further competences? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u378	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u379	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! You can't really see who represents the Ministry. Building civil society among young people should be Parliament's objective, and undoubtedly this bill is a step forward compared to what has been so far. But I think we should move further towards giving more competence and securing funding for youth city councils at all levels. Therefore, young people must be convinced that her voice is important, that her voice is important, that what they do is important public tasks. I ask, therefore, why the government so limits the competences of the city's youth councils, firstly and secondly, the issue of this funding. Why? [[♪ The bell ♪]] isn't there money to secure it? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u380	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Olichwer representing the Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u381	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am glad that we are finally dealing with a change in the law governing the activities of youth councils. It's a good sign that the cases of young people have taken an interest not only in the Senate, but also in the government. The proposed changes will give young people the opportunity to really participate in the life of the local government. I am all the more pleased with the regulations concerning the appointment of youth councils of powiats and seymists. It's a step in the right direction. However, I would like to ask whether the applicants have considered including into the competence of the youth councils a resolution initiative that would enable young people to participate more effectively in shaping our small homelands? If so, why doesn't the bill add such a record? I'm asking for an answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u382	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u383	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am happy and I like to discuss when it comes to draft laws that we agree on. Although we may see a different way of functioning, a different way of reaching the target, but the direction we see is one. Firstly, we all agree that there are too few young people in political life today. Secondly, we know that young people do not want to go to political life that much, and they do not want to go to politics. So what should we do as a parliament? First of all, I am replying to the Member, and he asked for proposals. Firstly, we must, ladies and gentlemen, as the House of Parliament, create the conditions. Secondly, we should give more competence, let us trust young people. Thirdly, we should secure financial resources, and fourthly, we should aim to ensure that it is indeed a youth self-government, [[♪ The bell ♪]] People wanted to get involved in this organization. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u384	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u385	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I appeal to young people: take Poland into your hands. This project, which assumes nearly $3,000. Local governments set up youth city councils, powiats or voivodships, this is the beginning of a wonderful road for you. If you don't like the mayor or the mayor who doesn't live up to your expectations about climate policy, culture, sport, you'll have to make a strong point. You can have a direct impact on what your life looks like. And change that because it's over 50,000. people, more than 50,000. Young people can have the best time of their lives and experiences, do a lot of good for their peers, change their reality in order to change Poland truly and responsibly in adult life. That's why I've been trying to get you guys to work on this one. [[♪ The bell ♪]] a year so that you can get involved and your energy in this good and desirable project from the point of view of the young generation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u386	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u387	Thank you kindly. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, young people are very inspiring, I have children myself, I know something about it. The idea of youth advice is they work in many places, and they work perfectly. On the other hand, we discuss this at a time when organizational sheets are closed by the end of April. I think it's very important for young people too. Children, young people, parents are just now learning that in many schools small, twenty - person classes are being liquidated and large, thirty - person piers will arise. Studies, including the Central Examination Board, show that if the class has more than 23 people, then effectiveness, the quality of education is getting lower. It's better for people, kids who graduate in these smaller classes. The question is, shouldn't we talk about what kind of government today? [[♪ The bell ♪]] It will allocate funds to ensure that children are able to study in smaller classes. It is about really getting high-quality education. I would very much ask the Minister to refer to this subject here. If he doesn't respond, I'd ask for a written reply. Or maybe even a better written answer would be. How is the Ministry going to do this? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u388	Thank you very much. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u389	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Youth councils operating throughout Poland are one of the most beautiful manifestations of civil society. Their number grows from year to year. There are now over 300 of them. In many ways, young people show greater wisdom than older ones. They draw attention to matters that have been neglected, such as human rights, the climate crisis or the exclusion of transport. Politicians should learn from them. Creating opportunities for youth councils also at the level of the county or voivodship is an excellent idea, thanks to which the potential of the young generation can be exploited even more. However, the proposed regulations should be bolder. The nature of youth councils should be extended - with a consultative function only - e.g. by granting them the right to take part in a resolution initiative and improving their operation, enabling the use of local authorities' resources. Therefore, as the Civic Coalition [[♪ The bell ♪]] we propose amendments and call for them to be adopted. Last sentence, Marshal. Taking advantage of this opportunity, I would like to thank all the young people who work every day in youth councils throughout Poland, especially of course the Youth City Council of Poznań. You guys are fantastic. Thanks. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u390	Thank you, sir. Mr Bogusław Wontor, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u391	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The law we are debating today is a step in the right direction - the activation of young people. But I have a question for the Minister: When will the department of youth be restored to the ministry? When will the dedicated youth activities be restored? When will the funds for programmes and projects be restored, training for young people learning how to be active? I think that would be a very good direction. I would like to remind you that in 2015 and 2017 when you were in charge, all this was still in operation and existed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u392	Thank you. Mr Artur Dziambor, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u393	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to finish my statement. By the way, this youth council of the city is also a beautiful teaching of democracy. When I was a member of the city council, we had one-mandate constituency, each school was one district. Every elementary school, every high school had a representative. There was an age limit - of course, when the high school of general education ends. There were primarys, then school elections. These elections indicated a specific representative of the school concerned. You can think about it. I also recall that once in high school schools, there was no blockage of political debates, meetings with politicians - as there are meetings with others. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he provides for some steps in this direction, because I believe that the return of such a teaching of democracy (the Bell) to schools is also needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u394	Thank you. Mrs Bożena Ironowska, Coalition Poland. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u395	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It's a good thing there's a bill. It undoubtedly strengthens the role of young people, increasing their activity in socio-political life. It also allows us to identify leaders, i.e. young people who want to be responsible for the affairs of their local communities. When I talk to these young people, there are often many questions about politics and social life, but also about where they live. They also ask questions about the financing of these counsels. We know that many of them will have to travel many kilometers by various means of transport, or later we will have to rent a hall, and we know that the measures that the government has secured are far from sufficient. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Hence my question: Does the government envisage an increase in funding for youth councils' activities in the budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u396	Thank you very much. And the last question will be asked by Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u397	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I happen to be the author of the article. 5c in the Local Government Act, under which municipal councils of seniors are established in Poland. I am, of course, very pleased that these competences concerning youth councils are also extended to the district and voivodeship level, but, my dear Minister, I have a question about why you have touched on the article when you are working on the revision of youth councils. 5c, and to such a small extent, although, first of all, the Civil Coalition project on this issue is ready, secondly, there are specific demands of the Civic Parliament of Seniors and the nationwide agreement of senior councils. Wouldn't it be better in partnership with senior organisations to just create a comprehensive project on the functioning of senior councils at the district and voivodship level and [[♪ The bell ♪]] extending the scope of their activities? I think we have an important discussion ahead of us. The point is that senior council can function and work with youth councils at all levels... Thank you, sir. ...the local government in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u398	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor and answer the questions of the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Piotr Mazurka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u399	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased that the subject of strengthening youth councils with local self-government units is of such great interest to the parliamentarian state. I am very pleased that the fashion for increasing the participation of young people in public life, which was introduced by the Law and Justice and by the government of Prime Minister Matthew Morawiecki, has taken so much that all parliamentary options have, in the same spirit, expressed themselves and stated that these actions are needed. As we know very well, for many years, young people have had a sense of insufficient influence on decision-making processes and thus insufficient influence on reality. It is clear that, for the reasons we all understand, young people are disproportionately less in decision-making bodies than they are in society. Therefore, institutions should be set up that make it possible to balance this gap and make it possible for young people to have an impact, which is important for decision-making processes. As the Government of Law and Justice, we are very consistently increasing the influence of young people on decision-making processes, which is why we have set up a statutory Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation, which on the one hand has representatives of the President, Prime Minister, Ministers, Local Government, and on the other hand representatives of young people, youth social organisations, youth councils operating at the moment in the municipalities, the Parliament of Polish Students and a whole range of other youth initiatives, which is why in the ministries, cultural institutions, public institutions are set up an advisory group composed of young people, which is why a representative of the government for youth policy has been appointed and therefore, in a participatory manner, in full dialogue with young people, based on consultations in all voivodships, we are preparing a new multi-annual policy strategy of the Polish state for young people. The next step in the same direction is to strengthen youth councils with local self-government units. This is a process that has already begun in the previous parliamentary term. I would like to thank the Parliamentary Group for this. Supporting Youth Councils for Territorial Self-Government Units. The team was founded in the previous term by Mr Kurzepa. He is chaired by Mr Paweł Lisiecki during this term of office. Members of this team began a very serious debate with young people on strengthening youth councils with local self-government units. Conferences were organized, congresses were organized. Young people had the opportunity to present their demands in a very substantive way. These postulates were then presented in the parliamentary group and later in the Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation. Finally, in cooperation with the government's representative, they were transferred to paper and a government bill was drafted, which is being processed in the High House today. This is a project that was created in response to the voices of young people who were created in response to the work of the parliamentary team. I bow to all the parliamentarians from various political options who have engaged in this team's work. The fact that there is a calm, substantive debate on the problems of young people within the parliamentary team is of great value. I am very happy to participate in the work of this team. Thank you very much for inviting me, Mr President. I would like to stress that this government project has also been very thoroughly discussed with the local government. It is amazing that so often the opposition says that self-government is important, that it is necessary to support local governments, and in the case of this law it makes a lot of comments which are contrary to what the local government has proposed. Because part of your amendments were proposals that were included in our original draft submitted to the Council of Ministers, but then as a result of discussions with the local government party were changed or, in some cases, eliminated. We, ladies and gentlemen, have sent our project to 259 entities in response to questions in the context of the public consultation. We received 121 comments, 63 of which were taken into account. As part of the work of the Joint Government and Local Government Commission, the 158 comments 82 were taken into account. The local government gave a positive opinion on this project, because it was very much - it was a long-term process - consulted with local authorities. We do not want to create something that is dedicated to local governments, contrary to local governments. That would be absolutely absurd. So that's, I think, a lot of value. I thank all representatives of local governments for their constructive dialogue on this project. I'll address the cost issue. There was a proposal here to allocate some funds to youth councils under the Civil Initiative Fund. We already have. As part of this year's edition of the Civil Initiative Fund, one of the strategic criteria provides for the award of projects dedicated to youth councils. I would like to stress that this is a project based on values such as democracy, the promotion of civil engagement, self-government and subsidiarity. We do not impose anything on local governments, we create a legal framework which, at every level of local government, allows the creation of an institution with a specific directory of powers, which is (the bell) a catalog, which is worth highlighting, can be expanded by local governments. Thank you very much for all the votes and for your cooperation in this project. I ask the High House to support him. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u400	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them (prints Nos 1062 and 1075). I kindly ask Mr Tomasz Zieliński to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u401	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, I present a report on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, print No 1062. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm bureau, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for its first reading on 29 March 2021. The bill submitted raises three very important issues. Firstly, the reserve of the educational part of the general subsidy is increased by PLN 187 million from the State budget. This appropriation is intended to cover the organisation for pupils in primary and secondary education classes IV-VIII, after their return to schools, of additional activities to support the consolidation of information and skills from selected compulsory general education activities. With regard to amendments to the Public Documents Act due to risks relating to the impossibility of adapting public documents of the first, second and third categories to statutory requirements within the time limits set so far, i.e. by 12 July 2021 for the first and second categories of documents and by 12 July 2023 for the third category of public documents, it is proposed to extend the period for the adjustment by an additional year. Further proposals concern the qualifications of rescue workers and mining paramedics during the epidemic. The project provides for the possibility to include periods of secondment of these staff in hospital assistance to combat epidemics as periods taken into account in determining the right and amount of mining pensions. Thus, periods of secondment are treated equally with underground mining work. It is proposed that these amendments should apply retroactively from 16 May 2020. Five amendments were tabled in the course of the bill's work, of which two were accepted and three rejected amendments were tabled as minority requests. The Commissions: Education, Science and Youth and the Territorial Government and Regional Policy, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 13 April 2021, ask the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the committees in accordance with Article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall submit three minority applications at the request of the applicants. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u402	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Club will be taken by Mrs Mirosław Stachowiak-Różecka. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u403	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As we have learned, as the rapporteur reminded us, the main reason for the changes in the Law on specific arrangements for preventing, combating and combating COVID-19 is the need to increase the limit on the reserve of the educational part of the general subsidy. This increase is to be PLN 187 million. This is a response to the needs of parents, teachers, children, pupils for additional activities to support the consolidation or even supplementing of information, general education skills. These classes can be organized, of course they will be organised in public schools, private schools, primary schools, secondary schools, special artistic schools, at any school that carries out general education. I think this case can be addressed briefly: that's very good. Indeed, it is a difficult time for us, especially for the disciples. Hopefully, after the pandemic... Indeed, it is clear - and I think we all share such a view - that support, including this kind of financial, and in the form of such activities will be necessary and necessary. This obviously does not preclude - and here I am also ahead of your demands, which were reported at the committee meeting - that we need to consider and consider many other solutions that our young people and children will simply help after this difficult period of distance education. However, here is a specific thing, a concrete change, the point is that these concrete planned measures, PLN 187 million, can support our children. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to make an amendment. We have worked very well within our committee, so on the occasion of the process of this COVID act, I am making amendments that simply in this difficult time in various areas support solutions that are intended to help combat COVID. I would also like to make an amendment, hoping for your cooperation on this issue, so that, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, pharmacists can become vaccination centres. Secondly, these drugstores and those people who work there must also have access to the necessary data so that it can simply be carried out. And the third thing that we are proposing here, of course, is that these vaccinations are quick and efficient -- I think we all agree here, and we understand that -- is related to a change in the registration system, so that it is simplified and not related to a trusted profile. What if someone doesn't have a profile they trust? So that, Marshal, this amendment is being tabled in writing. Thank you very much. I count on acceptance from the opposition, because vaccination is really the most important thing right now. We have to fight the pandemic. I'm counting on our amendment. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u404	Thank you very much, Member. They remembered. Mr Nitras, you're wearing something again today. I'm asking you to calm down. Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u405	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! I have to say, it actually started with education, and now the project is growing. Indeed, after practically a year of remote education, you need help from young people, not only when it comes to extracurricular activities, but also about psychological assistance, various types of integration activities after the time when everyone is sitting at home alone. I must say that we tabled an amendment in the committee to double this sum from PLN 187 million to PLN 354 million, that will be our minority request. Today, however, we are making an amendment on vaccination. We enter into the idea that actually vaccinations are the most important. We want to oblige the government to vaccinate Poles more quickly and set specific targets by the end of July, but above all, ladies and gentlemen, it is not the time to care, not the time to lick doses of vaccines. At the moment we have about 10 million doses in Poland, and only less than 8 million doses are vaccinated. It's time to take advantage of all possibilities and allow all Poles vaccination. Therefore, in our amendment we submit a request that every Pole who is authorised for vaccination - i.e. if the vaccine is expected to be 18 years old, to 18 years old, if it is 16 years old, for 16 years - have been assigned to vaccination on his patient's profile and so that he can choose the date of vaccination. At the same time, maintaining a pool of vaccines for seniors, but also for chronically ill patients. We think it's about time we opened up the vaccination system. Poland has the right to return to normality, Poles have the right to vaccinate, we want it to be a normal holiday, we want each of us to have the same opportunity - whether it is 20, 30, 40 or 50 years old - to sign up for vaccination. Enough action according to the principle: maybe something will happen. I know that Mr. Dworczyk was scared that once he opened up the system, he got a buzz, but all Poles have the right to sign up for vaccinations. Hence, our amendment to ensure that every patient's account, every Pole, appears e-direction and to open all possible deadlines. Ladies and gentlemen, really, open up vaccinations, stop dissuading Poles from vaccinations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u406	Thank you, Member. Mr Sławomir Nitras in the second part of the club speech. Now you can speak from the bench and scream a little louder.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u407	There is no more important case in Poland today than vaccinations. Today in Poland there are more than 10 million vaccines and less than 8 million people - used doses. There's over 2 million. When we told Dworczyk two days ago that he had over 2 million vaccines, he said it wasn't true. When we proved to him on the numbers that he had over 2 million vaccines, he said that he didn't have 2 million vaccines, but that these vaccines were distributed after vaccination points. I went to all the trouble, and this morning I've been calling the vaccination facilities, and I'm like, "You guys got the vaccines, why don't you vaccinate?" They say we're not going to vaccinate because we have these vaccines, but we have the right to vaccinate only those that the government will allow to vaccinate. Registered for vaccination may be registered. What does that mean? You have created a system in which Poles want to vaccinate, in which doctors want to vaccinate, where the points are ready, points are much more, because local governments have much more points, and 2 million vaccines are lying and waiting. Why? Because Mr. Dworczyk wouldn't let me inoculate. He says, "It will be your time, and you will be vaccinated." This is the system where the biggest barrier to getting vaccinated is to jump the Dwórczyk. Maybe it's better to remove this Dworczyk and then we'll be able to vaccinate ourselves more easily. This bill is a test for you today. Do you want to inoculate Poles safely and quickly or not? We're making adjustments. The first most important amendment: to achieve safety, population immunity, we need to inoculate more than 70% Poles. We in this amendment write that by July, the government is going to inoculate 70% by July. Poles. You don't write anything in the bill, but you say we'll inoculate 70% by July. Anything. Not willing, because how do you find out who's willing, how you don't even get registered? People are willing to register, and they can't register. Then you'll say they weren't willing. 70% I want you to inoculate the population, not since the age of 18. Only as Pfizer and other vaccine manufacturers say that you can be vaccinated even from the age of 12, you have to vaccinate 16-year-olds, 17-year-olds, not say and create barriers, that you can only vaccinate for 18 years. The second point: there is no difference between Poles that someone signed up in January or that someone has a profile trusted. Everyone gets e-directions. Now. You know why? Because the Constitution guarantees us all equal access to medical services and we cannot share people because someone has access to a computer or doesn't have it. If you do not accept these amendments... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. Thank you. ...you will be responsible for the fact that the Poles did not achieve population resistance in July. You're gonna owe it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u408	Thank you. Member: you have, date, take, Courtman. Do I comment on your speeches? Mr President, are you not familiar with the terms of courtesy? Are you unfamiliar with them? A little culture, sir. Thank you very much. I have a lot of culture. Didn't you learn that at home? I have a lot of culture, which is why I'm not commenting on your speeches. Didn't you learn that at home? Thank you very much. Well, here you go, maybe you can check in with the head of the club, see if he can teach you. Because these are unacceptable forms, sir. Your head of the cultural club won't teach you for sure. That's the difference. Sir, sir, I took the culture out of the house as opposed to you. I see no reason for you to comment. You're disrupting the agenda. This disturbs you, and you comment on the speeches made by Members not invited. Naughty commentary. You are commenting on the speeches made by Members. Yeah, naughty, lack of culture comment. Mr Bogusław Wontor, Club Left. You're welcome. Learn to be a marshal. You're being rude. And you are a culture, simply and exclusively. Sit down. Terlecki will teach you culture.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u409	May I? You're welcome, sir. Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! On behalf of the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left, I would like to present the position of our club vis-à-vis the government's draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, prints 1062 and 1075. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This draft law aims to increase the limit of the reserve of the educational part of the general subsidy. This appropriation is intended to cover additional classes in selected compulsory general education activities. The implementation of additional support activities is intended to be a voluntary task giving the possibility to organise them in all schools, which justifies the mechanism for distributing funds to local government units through the provision of the educational part of the general subsidy. High Seym! In the explanatory memorandum of the draft law, applicants argued that the proposed changes wanted to remedy possible shortcomings in pupils' compliance with the requirements set out in the general education programme basis. In the view of the Members of the club Lewis, in order to properly implement the stated assumptions, the proposed amount for this project is insufficient. This was also confirmed by experts and trade union representatives at first reading. At the committee meeting, the members of the KO tabled a valid amendment to increase the subsidy. Unfortunately, the majority of the government rejected it. The question is why, since today's amount will not allow the task to be properly accomplished. Either the proposal is more propagandist than substantive, or it's not in the budget. Without accusing the rulers of propaganda action, on behalf of the Left Club I make an amendment increasing the amount of subsidies. I hope that this amount, which is lower than the proposal at the committee meeting, will be able to be borne by the budget and will bring us closer to the effective effect of the proper implementation of the teachings. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! During the first reading, the PiS Members tabled two amendments, which, in my opinion, go beyond the scope of the amended law. A moment ago, on behalf of the PiS Club, a third such amendment was tabled by the Member. I can add that beyond the scope of the work of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, which discussed this project at first reading. Completely from other areas, concerning mining pensions and public documents. At the committee meeting, I asked the Sejm Legal Experts of BAS on this issue who confirmed my concerns. Therefore, I have a question for you, Marshal, whether it will allow further investigation of this law contrary to the legislative requirements. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Too bad it's not personal, it's remote. To sum up what I have presented, I would like to inform you that according to Members of the Coalition Parliamentary Club Left, the Government's draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention and eradication of COVID and other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by prints 1062 and 1075 raises doubts. Thank you, and I'll ask my colleague to finish. And your marshal, I'm handing over the amendments. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u410	Thank you very much, thank you for the amendments. And Mr Jan Szopiński concludes his speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u411	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! What was the work of yesterday's Sejm Health Committee? Not with vaccinations. She was in charge of health care maps, because this is today's most important document, which was prepared by the Ministry of Health. So, maps of health needs. We say to the Minister: no - vaccination, no - receiving patients by doctors, not remotely, not by surgery. Maps of health needs. Today we find out that vaccinations are the most important ones, de facto in the law that talked about extracurricular activities in schools. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Poles! Is anyone able to control this mess that's here? Yesterday there were no important vaccinations, today are important vaccinations. Madam, Chair of the Committee on Education and Science, do you know what is important? The twenty-second in the government document signed by the Prime Minister was that administrative and school staff, cleaning staff, janitors and administrative staff were to be vaccinated. On February 26th, you removed these people from this document. They are pitied and ask whether you are behind them, whether the Prime Minister is fighting the cleaning women, whether the Prime Minister is aware that if the children return to schools, those who work in these schools should be vaccinated. That's what I'm appealing to you for. And I also call on you to share your knowledge that the Committee on Health should be discussing the issue of (Ring) vaccination and that it should be the Minister who should bring it to the meeting, not the Committee on Education and Science. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u412	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Bożena Ironowska, Coalition Poland. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u413	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! In fact, the law in the first version assumed an increase in the budget reserve from the educational grant, and then it expanded, so let me share my time with my club friend, Darek Klimczak, as your marshal will give his consent. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I have the honour to present the position of the club regarding the government draft law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and fight against COVID-19. The amendment of the Act, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, is dictated by the need to increase the limit of the reserve of the educational part of the general subsidy referred to in Article. Article 28 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Act on the income of local government units. The amount that the government intends to allocate for this purpose is PLN 187 million. Today, after more than a year of pandemic, we know that children and young people in primary and secondary schools are the most affected group of pandemics. Practically since March last year, with a small break, students are not allowed to attend normal classes. They are confined to their homes, without contact with their peers, and, depending on their family situation, they are better or worse cared for. Many students at the beginning of the pandemic were excluded from educational activities by lack of appropriate computer equipment. Many of them do not enjoy any physical activity. This time, when they most need contact with the peer group, is forever lost. And despite many appeals from opposition parties or local governments, parents, teachers, the government has not developed any programme of mental health support for children and schoolchildren. After more than one year of pandemic, the amount of PLN 187 million was allocated from the educational reserve, which is not counted for the school year, but, notice, for the calendar year. For one student, there are 9 PLN. As we know, this amount is far insufficient and will not compensate for educational shortcomings, and even more so will not solve the overlapping psychological-pedagogical problems. I want it to sound out loud again from the Sejm stand that the government has left Polish children and young people without any help for more than a year. Thank you. I'd like another...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u414	Thank you. In the second part, I understand, Mr Dariusz Klimczak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u415	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna start with the vaccination amendments, the government amendments, surprising, but good ones. Let me just remind you, it's April 14th. We've been offering this from the very beginning when the vaccination information came up. Question: "Why only now?" After all, when we offered to follow the scientific society, the Scientific Council of the National Flu Control Programme, behind the Pharmacy Chamber, to test it already for influenza to start with flu - not to test it, because other European countries are already doing it - no one has asked for it. Today, this system would be bouncing and we wouldn't have a problem. I hope that someone will get one opinion about the fact that PSL, the Polish Coalition Club, was right from the very beginning to propose such amendments, because we also talked about them at a meeting with the Prime Minister when there was a vaccine crisis. Only Minister Dworczyk expressed his interest in the amendments tabled by Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish and by my club. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm getting back to the basics. When a few days ago I told the local government from Rawa Mazowiecka that the government was preparing for them for extracurricular activities, they asked how much money they had. As I said about the amount, they asked directly why so little. And secondly, since the government is now preparing these small amounts for us, why cut our subsidies at the beginning of the year? Second thing. I agree with the thesis expressed during the meeting of the committee by Vice-President Krzysztof Baszczyński from the Polish Teachers' Association, who pointed out that there is no legal basis for the transfer of funds in the act and that it is not clear whether these funds will also be available to non-public institutions. The Ministry's representative ensured that such support would also apply to non-governmental and non-public schools. I'd rather we have it in writing, for example, in the explanatory note. Last case - report of the Polish Economic Institute. Educational losses - huge. I believe that Poland needs a national tutoring program, not a small grant which in theory will not change anything. Thank you, sir. Time's up. The project should cover all: from nursery to university, because such educational losses are after remote teaching. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u416	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krystian Kaminski, on behalf of the Confederacy Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u417	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, at the meeting of the joint committees: the local government committee and the education committee, we discussed the draft law, which increases the reserve of the educational part of the general subsidy by PLN 187 million. Additional classes from selected compulsory subjects in classes IV-VIII and secondary schools were to be financed from this money. As we have heard before, this is naturally insufficient money for this purpose, and it will certainly run out of money to properly develop this topic. Unfortunately, it is also a scrappy aid, very limited, not an attempt at a systemic solution to the problem that is growing, which we have recently. We, as the only party, propose a way out of this impasse, we say: let's open primary schools, let's open secondary schools, let's give the young people, let the children get back to school. Many of the problems we currently have - social, interpersonal, child psychiatry - are precisely because we have locked young people in the house, that online education does not work, as many young people have said. Let's open schools. Let's get back to normal behavior. One more thing happened at the committee meeting, which I completely do not understand, and I think is completely absurd. Two amendments were made by law and justice, which were completely unrelated to what we were investigating. The Legislative Office said that these amendments are flawed and go beyond what we are dealing with. So what? The Law and Justice answered: let's vote quickly. That's the solution, right? If something's wrong, let's vote fast. We've been through this in foreign service and it's clear that this process still exists. What were we investigating? Public documents and mining pensions. Why do the committees of local government and national education look at such topics? They've added more vaccines today. Bravo! What else? Is there anything else you can add? There's a few more things to talk about. Maybe we can add something about an international agreement, because I can see that this catalogue is open. This process really spoils our legislation and will lead to our country not functioning properly because it cannot function properly with such a legislative mess.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u418	Thank you, sir. Mr Artur Dziambor in the second part of the speech of the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u419	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! As I listened first to Mr Lubnauer, who said about vaccines that the system should be opened, that everyone should be allowed to sign up, I support that, that is a good idea, a good step. Indeed, this demand for a free service, which has been built, as you know, ends in the fact that it goes, grows forever, so maybe it really needs to be released completely, especially since already these groups, so-called. Group zero, they've been vaccinated, so let's go into it. And then I listen to Mr Nitras, who is thundering on the platform. That's good. Listen to me. It's worth it. He says you've got to raise 70%. And it's not that voluntarily - it's a quote. Not that it's voluntary, but you're gonna force these people to plant them. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come No, no. He didn't say voluntarily. No, no. And this is unfortunately the true face of the Civic Coalition. In corrigendum mode. It's not that we're the only ones who can control it. You're the ones who set them up. You're even worse than they are, really. And you have to realize that, and actually it's not you people who vote for you that have to realize that. Listen with your ear, not with your belly. Unfortunately, that sounded very bad. I hope that we will not go in this direction and that we will go in a voluntary direction. As far as school is concerned, we are talking about this additional subsidy budget. I, too, have been corrected by the Member. During the whole school year there was time to think about the educational bon, about the target liquidation, maybe some slight changes in the Teacher's Charter for the time being. It was possible to think about the hours of the penny, which is still one of the lowest if not the lowest penny in Europe as far as teachers are concerned. It was possible to consider changing the basis of the programme or eliminating it and releasing the educational market. It was possible to consider eliminating the state monopoly on education. Unfortunately, this time was wasted. The current ministry has wasted this time exactly the same as the previous one, the previous minister has wasted the time of the strike of teachers. You could change everything at school. Today, you came up with a slice on this, which means throwing in a little money just to somehow save this class. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It doesn't look good. You can see there's no idea. This is how it's gonna end badly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u420	Thank you, sir. Mr Nitras, as corrected. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u421	Thank you, Marshal. It is very important because Mr Dziambor is either consciously or unconsciously, but he introduces those who listen to this debate and the matter is extremely serious and misleading. Indeed, not only am I, but we in the amendment point out as the goal that the government should achieve, the Polish state should achieve, the implantation of 70% for holidays population. That is because this guarantees the achievement of population resilience, Mr President. But absolutely no one is to be forced. All studies in Poland say that more than 70% The Poles definitely want to vaccinate themselves. Every day the helpline receives calls from Poles who want to get vaccinated. The Poles want to vaccinate themselves. On the other hand, we may not achieve this 70% implantation not because Poles do not want - you would want Poles not to want it and Poles want it - just because the system is badly built. This record is not to force someone, it is to give Poles the right to inoculate, because it will give you, me and Mr Braun safety. Thank you. My name came up, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u422	Thank you. Can you be civilized? Yes, you can. Mrs... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, I don't recall. Was it exchanged? Okay, that's the Member. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u423	To Mr Dziambor, because I do feel that there has been some misunderstanding. We want to give every Pole an e-direction as soon as possible and allow for vaccination, among others. Because right now, when we're in the third wave of pandemics, the interest in vaccinations is the greatest. At the moment, the workstations want to vaccinate themselves. At the moment, many Poles want to inoculate themselves, they want to have a term. If we wait it out, if the government does not want to open vaccinations for everyone, it may turn out that summer will come, the infections will be less, and Poles will no longer be so willing to inoculate. Let's remember one thing, the pandemic goes in waves. If we do not now decide to open up the vaccination system and inoculate as many Poles as possible, we will have another fourth wave in the fall. Therefore, we encourage each Pole to have his e-direction, even anyone over the age of 16, so that he can inoculate himself.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u424	Thank you, Member. It was an abuse of correction, but it's hard enough. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday on behalf of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u425	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Honestly, I don't know what you're talking about here, whether you're talking about vaccines or if you're talking about education. The submitted project talks about education, so I'm going to focus on this speech. No, there's talk of vaccines, too. There are adjustments. The proposed increase by 187 million in the budget for education in order to counter the effects of COVID is, of course, a drop in the sea of needs. We support this small injection as the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050. We support this injection of cash for education, but this is a canning fire extinguisher by this government. A lost yearbook - that's what children who used remote education during the epidemic are called. Some of them fell out of the education system at all. Studies show that more than 50% of teachers have been exposed to the phenomenon of disappearing students who did not take part in classes due to lack of equipment, neglect or simply because their parents had to use the only computer in their home to work remotely. In addition to these extreme cases, there are other problems. Most children and young people have serious problems acquiring material in this way of teaching. Many of them do not have support in their parents who could explain harder material. So we're going to have a huge problem with the educational gap that's been created over a year of pandemics. The justification of the project refers to the allocation of PLN 187 million for additional classes to compensate for this gap. But it's definitely not enough. We're trying to put this right patch on some hole in the education system, but with the other hand, the government is damaging and demolishing the system. I am no longer talking about insufficient resources for education subsidies. This is a giant system problem right now. According to our calculations from 2014 to 2019 local authorities increased by 40% the resources they contribute to education. In Łódź at the moment, education workers are fired because they lack the resources for their work due to the collapse of finance in this area. What about special education? According to reports from the Ministry, our country will depart from special education institutions. Unfortunately, in a short time, it will throw tens of thousands of children with autism and other disabilities into education. We should take care of this issue honestly, listen to the voices of the social side and the families, in order to increase financial assistance in this area. I hear the voices of worried parents, students, the teaching community, which emerged after the Ministry's presentation of this next reform entitled Education for all - a framework for legislative and organisational solutions for high-quality inclusive education for all learners. That sounds nice, doesn't it? On the other hand, this project, which came out of Minister Czarnek's department, assumes among others. the establishment, on the basis of psychological-pedagogical counseling and district help centers of the family, a new creation, which is to be the centers of the child and the family, and, on the basis of schools and special centres, so-called. specialised centres supporting inclusive education. You can get lost in these names, because it's actually spilling from empty to vain and violating a system that worked pretty well to break something again in the epidemic and mess it up again. I'm asking you when you're gonna secure funds for the right goals in education. Will it be the same as the reform of secondary education that local authorities will be left to themselves with the preparation of infrastructure under it? Of course, as I said, as the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 we will support this project, but we are aware that this is just patching a hole bucket, which is Polish education. Moreover, the government is still joyfully enjoying this bucket right now without reflecting on the effects of such profound reforms without consultation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u426	Thank you very much, Member. We will proceed to the questions, High Izbo, after the votes. And now I'm managing a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 19 minutes 23 hours 19 min 30]] I'm reopening the session. We will now proceed with the quorum. I would like to ask all Members to press any button to confirm their presence at the meeting. You're welcome. The meeting shall be attended by 426 Members. I'm declaring a quorum. Mr Robert Kropiwnicki is making a formal request. Please. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u427	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I request a formal recess and the arrival of the Attorney General, the Minister of Justice. We will vote today on the motion to inform the Attorney General about the death of Paweł Adamowicz. This is a tragic failure of the D.A.'s office. It's been over two years and there's still no indictment. Paul Adamowicz's brother, Piotr Adamowicz, is with us here today, but this is emotionally difficult for him. All of Poland saw who killed him. Paweł Adamowicz was killed in front of the whole of Poland. And the D.A.'s office hasn't been able to prepare an indictment in two years. You promised me that it would be efficient, that it would be fair, but in the meantime, there's just one big mess. And it is sad that in such a difficult case for the whole of Poland you are not able to do so to prepare an indictment so that the court can finally convict this man or... [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm going to give you a fair judgment. Thank you, sir. It's been reported... We're looking forward to it. I'm asking you to vote for the Attorney General to have the courage to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u428	Thank you. A formal request for adjournment has been submitted. I will put this proposal to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 204 - for, 236 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has submitted a report on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area, print No 1083. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Social Policy and Family Committee submitted a report on the government draft law amending the law on family support and foster care, print No 1082. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to remind you that the clubs have applied for the following agenda: - Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens with points: - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers, the Head of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers and the Minister of Health on the functioning of the National Vaccination Programme, - Information from the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General about the murder proceedings, the political murders of the President of Gdansk are dead. Paul Adamowicz, - Review of the draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, - Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left (Together, Democratic Left Alliance, Spring of Robert Biedron) by points: - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the state of preparation for the use of EU funds in the period 2021 to 2027 and the preparation of the National Plan for Reconstruction, - Information from the Minister of Education and Science on the state of preparation for the return of pupils to schools, screening tests of teachers and vaccination of teachers and other staff of educational establishments against SARS-CoV-2 virus, - Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives about the point: Information of the President of the Council of Ministers on plans for nationalization of Polish health services. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 We are voting on the proposal for information on the functioning of the national vaccination programme. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. There's no need for information. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Vaccinations are still not the current problem. 449 Members voted. 214 for, 233 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We proceed to the vote on the request for information on the murder proceedings, the political murder of President Gdansk, dead. Paul Adamowicz. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 210 for, 234 against, 4 abstentions. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We proceed with the vote on the proposal for a draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 213 - for, 232 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We proceed with the vote on the request for information on the state of preparation for the use of EU funds and the drawing up of the National Reconstruction Plan. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 216 - for, 232 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We are voting on the proposal for information on the state of preparation for the return of pupils to schools, the screening of teachers and vaccination of teachers and other staff at educational institutions. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 215-- for, 234-- against, no one held back. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We are voting on the request for information on plans for nationalisation of Polish health services. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 215 for, 233 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws. A motion to reject the bill was made in the discussion. The Sejm decided to join the third reading without re-directing the project to committee. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1069. The motion to reject the project will be dealt with first. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the proposal. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of a motion for rejection in full of the draft Print Act No. 1069, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 20 - for, 425 - against, abstained from 6. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the sole request of a minority to Article. 7 The Act on Personal Evidence of the applicant proposes that paragraph be added. 4. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of a minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 216 for, 231 against, one abstention. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1069, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 428 - for, 14 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws. That's where we ended the vote. We continue to consider item 10 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on a draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. Let's get to the questions. As the first Mrs Krystyna Shumilas, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u429	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will return to the original project that we are debating today, i.e. on the question of helping children when they return to school after remote teaching. Well, Poland is one of the European countries where children learn the longest in remote learning. There is only Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Slovakia and Latvia ahead. Our children lose most in remote teaching, and the Law and Justice, instead of seriously addressing this problem, proposes a small slice for a huge wound. This project you have presented will certainly not solve children's problems. We need to reduce the programming base, we really need to organise psychological, pedagogical assistance for children. It won't be enough for ten hours by the end of the school year... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much, Member. I ask you to ask Mr Dariusz Ionski, the Civic Coalition. ...because this is one hour of math, one hour of chemistry and one hour of physics. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u430	Ladies and gentlemen, we're almost two hours late, so I would very much like to ask that we stick to time. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u431	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are talking about education and vaccinations, while the Episcopate denied two vaccines, stating that the companies use biological material taken from the aborted foetuses and adding that this raises their moral opposition. Stupidity arouses my serious moral objection because it is dangerous for life. And that's why I'm here because I didn't see the health department's statement. I would like to appeal from this point of view for the Ministry of Health to comment on this statement. On the other hand, I want serious moral opposition to start raising priests among bishops. Let them begin with their morality and then deal with the morality of others. There's something to do. E.g. Bishop Janiak became invisible. He's the one who's a hero playing hide-and-seek, punished by the Vatican. Maybe it's worth checking to see if he was coming down the gutter. But seriously: I really expect the Ministry of Health to react quickly because it was an appeal to the faithful (the bell) not to take these vaccines. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u432	Thank you, sir. Here you are, Mrs Iwona Kozłowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u433	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill under investigation is indeed an important issue, but I would like to address the current problems that the Ministry should certainly also regulate. This applies to the rules for the payment of the allowance for work under difficult conditions in the remote learning process. The Decree of the Minister of Education of 20 March 2020 does not address the current situation. Hence, there has been some chaos in the area of the appropriateness of granting this benefit. The establishment of detailed rules for granting allowances for work in difficult or cumbersome conditions under the Teacher's Charter has been entrusted by the legislator to local authorities. It is not clear from the regulations adopted that remote work excludes the possibility of paying this supplement, but also the implementation of the programming base in remote form before the pandemic was not necessary and did not take place. Shouldn't the Ministry finally take a clear stand and standardise the rules, [[♪ The bell ♪]] so that local government units can pay this benefit in accordance with the law? Thank you, Member. Please respond in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u434	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u435	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We all know very well that this system of remote teaching for children and young people is a very unreliable system. Unfortunately, he causes many problems, both educational and educational, and especially emotional. I think we're facing such a choice... In the future, we need to launch a national programme to educate these children in order to fill these gaps in the education that have arisen. It's a good thing it's relatively small, because it's 9 PLN per student, the amount of funding, which is one hundred and eighty. A few million zlotys, but that doesn't solve the problem. This really does not solve the problem, the more that we do not really have the identified needs in this area, even in the case of remote teaching. Teachers say that this preparation, especially in the case of families in which there are several children learning in the remote system, is not something that families are able to cope with. That's why [[♪ The bell ♪]] Yes, it is. There's a very strong need for help here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u436	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left. There is no Member. Therefore, Mrs Kinga Gajewska, Civic Coalition. There is no Member. In that case, Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u437	High Izbo! Pandemic educational regression is a fact. Teachers alert that we also have depression among young people, we have a situation of complete disintegration, which means that the teams have broken up, the class groups have broken down. We're gonna need psychological support, and we're gonna need support to reintegrate the school teams. The question is whether the government intends to review the expenditures and find additional resources. They're necessary. Let us remember that this is not the end of expenses. We need a very large amount of money to close this educational gap, above all to close it in the minds of young people, because it needs to go back to normal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u438	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, the Civic Coalition. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u439	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! You could call this bill: we wanted it right, and it worked out like always. You see and rightly see the problem of education shortages arising from remote learning, while 187 million, providing 10 hours per unit is certainly not a solution to the problem. We should consider supporting teachers themselves. I ignore the fact that the draft law on a one-way issue is already under discussion, and by each amendment we already have a conglomerate. Today, about vaccination in pharmacies, it's some kind of psychic. The state as a government was informed of such an idea a few days ago. So why is this amendment tabled in such a way? And, Marshal, I have a very cordial request: let us work. One meeting per month is definitely not enough. We want to work. Let it happen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u440	Thank you. I invite Mr Mark Ruth of the Left. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u441	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no doubt that the amendment tabled by the Law and Justice Club a few dozen minutes ago concerning the implementation of vaccination in pharmacies goes significantly beyond the scope of the law. Instead of pushing this amendment on the knee, all you had to do was listen to the voice of the Left Club. I proposed extending the possibility of vaccination to pharmacys six months ago, on October 27th, and repeated this call in mid-March. A program is broadcast on the state television, worth talking about, which, to be honest, is not worth watching. For my part, however, I propose that we create a program worth listening to the opposition. This concrete example shows that it would be beneficial for all of us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u442	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u443	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In nearly two weeks, the exams will be held, and in five weeks, the exams will be held by the 8th graders. However, it is only today that the government launches a law on increasing education subsidies, among others. for the costs of additional preparation for these examinations. Therefore, the question is: Where was the Ministry of National Education all winter long? Further questions, namely: According to what criteria will local governments receive increased subsidies? Since when will additional activities covered by the subsidy be possible? When's the extra money gonna go into government accounts? Will the subsidy be sufficient for all classes organised by schools in accordance with the requirements of the Ministry? As some schools will work remotely for epidemiology reasons, will the subsidy also cover online activities? I ask you very kindly to give me a written reply on this matter. Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! I still have a very kind request for you. I kindly ask that you submit as quickly as possible the amendments that have been tabled by the PiS Members on the issue of vaccination. The education committee dealing with vaccinations is probably a puriazum in the High House, since yesterday the Health Committee was discussing the issue of the future of Polish hospitals. The future of Polish hospitals is vaccinations, that's what we told the Minister yesterday. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u444	Thank you, sir. Mr. Bogusław Wontor, Left. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u445	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have a question for government representatives: What is the government's position on the amendments tabled at the meeting of the Joint Committees, which were outside the scope of the bill and outside the remit of the committee and which were negatively assessed by BAS lawyers? And my question to your marshal, taking the opportunity that you are a marshal, is to tell you what you intend to do about it. After all, it is a puriazum that we should use such a legislative process in the Polish Parliament to make amendments that go beyond the scope and no one has done anything about it, and the committees that are set up for other purposes discuss these amendments, the committees that should deal with them, have not seen them at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u446	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Tomasz Olichwer, the Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u447	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What about classes I-III? Why were they not included in the schedule of additional support activities? Or for austerity reasons? Because I can't find another explanation. The basic skills that I-III pupils currently acquire under such difficult conditions, remotely, during the pandemic, will certainly not facilitate their education in older classes. Because in the future, is the fourth grade student when solving e.g. text tasks in mathematics, for which he will have a certain time of execution, without the ability to read correctly will perform them? I don't think so. Do all parents of younger children now have the opportunity to devote enough time to them, especially when there are a few children in the family? Definitely not. I therefore believe that it is also necessary to include classes I-III in additional support activities, and I call for this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u448	Thank you, sir. I invite Mrs Barbara Nowacka, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u449	High Seym! Education collapse is a fact, children, especially those of disadvantaged families, have problems not only with gaining knowledge, but in general with the use of how a school can function. Lack of equipment, often lack of a room of their own, and in return what do the righteous and righteous get? 9 PLN per person compensatory classes. 9 PLN, for which there will be no chance to compensate for, for example, those deficiencies in chemistry, physics, history or nature they have. If we want to help, and we say we want to help, then let's help in a way that makes sense. The Polish state cannot afford to cause educational collapse in such a difficult situation as it is now. We must be able to afford real help for children and young people, for these children and for these young people. The system that is now favors wealthier children, children whose parents have time and money for compensatory classes. Please double this amount and give serious treatment to children and young people in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u450	Thank you, Member. I invite Mr Piotr Boris, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u451	Dear Marshal! High Seym! It's time to make a point about the work of daycare and kindergarten. I tabled an amendment to allocate PLN 100 million to support daycare and kindergartens, which have been closed since 25 March. Mostly, 70%. daycare is conducted by private entities or non-governmental organisations. A large proportion of kindergartens are private entities and entities run by NGOs which have not received any support for this period from the State. In most cases they have to pay for the salaries of specialists and do not have any compensation, during which time the parents do not pay any fees. Therefore, we demand that the Polish state find the means and accept our amendment and support the actors who take care of the youngest on a daily basis and work despite the pandemic. For this, I also wanted to thank all day care workers and kindergartens who, despite the pandemic, were active and risked the lives and health of the workers (the bell) led the education of the youngest. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u452	Thank you, sir. I invite Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u453	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! COVID touched all areas of life, among others. health care, but also education. Education that is underfunded, the remote learning system does not function or functions very badly. You see this, that's why you're offering extra lessons, and this should be national tutoring. But you guys spend 9 zlotys on one kid for these extra lessons. What kind of 9 zlotys is that? What can I do for you, Minister? In addition to the poor functioning of the education system, the vaccination system is also malfunctioning. We demand the release of the vaccination system in this legislation. Every citizen should have an e-direction displayed. Because today you are juggling the health and life of Poles. The education system doesn't work, the health system doesn't work, the vaccination system doesn't work. What's going on, Minister? [[Applause]] Orlen.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u454	Thank you, Member. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u455	Monsieur Marshal! High Izbo! My question will be about mobile vaccination points. Because very many people in group zero have not been vaccinated because they cannot go into the vaccine alone. These are dramatic situations. It is not vaccinated e.g. 98-year-old person from Warsaw. Despite my efforts, the answer I've heard is that there's no way to reach this person, there's no such possibility, there's no such means, there's just no car. I would therefore like to ask you for an answer: What is behind in this regard? How many people who can't get to the vaccine alone are waiting for the vaccination? And to continue the matter. These older people often take care of people who do not have the right to vaccination yet, so it happens very often - this is not one such situation - that in the case of a very elderly person who has one guardian (the bell), neither she is vaccinated nor the caretaker is vaccinated. First person - because of the lack of access and vaccination... Mrs... ...and the second - because of not reaching the right age. Thank you very much, Member. I would also like to ask you to answer the question of how many such situations are not arranged. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u456	Thank you. I invite Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u457	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! For a year, children learned remotely. It is estimated that for some items it is possible to talk boldly about the fact that 70% have not been discussed material that this material just didn't get to the kids. The proposed assistance of PLN 3 per child for psychological and pedagogical assistance and PLN 9 per child for additional classes is simply a mockery. Of course, we have tabled an amendment which involves doubling this sum, but this does not change the fact that if we consider that education subsidy is PLN 52 billion, and we are talking here about an amount of 187 million, we would like to ask what this will be enough for. Indeed, children need help, but more important than even these additional lessons is to really lose weight on the program's basis to bring them back together to help their children feel good again in class teams. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We must take care of the Polish youth, because it is really bad for both her mental health... Thank you very much, Member. ...as well as with her knowledge. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u458	Thank you. I invite Mr Arthur Łącki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u459	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I've been talking to you all morning about how the government of the United Right used to work badly. And here's another example: making last-minute amendments as important as those on vaccination in the bill we're going to talk about, the subsidy bill is really funny and incomprehensible. So I ask quickly: Will young people and children experienced the longest remote teaching in Europe need compensatory classes? No doubt about it. Is it a good idea to use the budget reserve for this class? No doubt about it. Is the proposal to allocate PLN 187 million for this purpose a good move? No doubt about it. And that's what the Civic Coalition amendment is about, it's about increasing it by at least 100%. It's not much, anyway, because these kids have been through a hell of a lot. They've been sitting in front of laptops for months, and they're gonna need compensatory work. And that's normal -- you have to help these kids. Second thing in this bill: vaccination. Your Marshal, if the government has made these amendments for this (the bell) to continue to regulate vaccines, I am against it. Thank you, sir. But if he's finally come to his senses, he wants to release the vaccinations... Thank you very much, sir. ...and start vaccinating everyone who wants to, I'm in. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u460	I invite Mr Aleksander Mishalski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u461	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Experts are alerting about the dramatic decline in the level of knowledge among students. They're even talking about the need to repeat the whole year. The intensity of depression and mental problems among students is at an absolutely record level. In September, Minister Piontkowski declared financial support for compensatory hours. So what? It's less than 1 month to high school, 2 months to the end of the year, and you finally made a bill. You might say, soon in time. And you increase this reserve by PLN 187 million, and the total total education subsidy is as much as PLN 52 billion. Moreover, it is said that these funds will also be paid in September. And here you could also say, soon in time. Question: "Why does support not include classes I-III?" After all, these children often do not know any other science than remote science. Another question: Why do you want to allocate only PLN 15 million for the mental support of students? Don't you think it's not enough and that it won't solve any problems? And finally: Why do you put in a rigid framework for the number of hours per class (the Bell) or the number of classes? Students who have more than 36 hours a week will not want to attend these classes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u462	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u463	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The negative effects of long-term remote teaching of children and young people are multiple, not only in terms of level playing field, but also in terms of other disorders that caused this time. So far, no one has estimated or diagnosed these effects. Therefore, I ask: On what basis did the government so precisely determine the amount that is needed for additional activities? I think this amount is absolutely insufficient. And I have an even more general question: Does the government intend to engage with local governments, with the Polish City Union, with the union of counties and other organizations, in order to diagnose the situation and assess what education subsidy should be for the current year? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u464	Thank you, Member. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u465	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, we have a year of remote education, we have huge losses on many levels, both in terms of education and in terms of psyche or physical fitness. Today we will find out whether it is a real program, whether it is a propaganda program. Ladies and gentlemen, this is PLN 187 million for several million students. On the other hand, it is not long ago that you voted 2 billion for the so-called. public television. That's the scale. You can't really save money here. If we save money on this, we spend a lot more money on doctors, psychiatrists, psychologists and all kinds of other activities. Minister! I have one proposition for you: sit down, don't be afraid and take care of the basics of the program. The software bases are overloaded today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's what needs to be changed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u466	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u467	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you about non-medical personnel in health care. It is about all those who make the system work, i.e. administrative, technical, workers working directly with patients who are involved in the fight against COVID. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 you introduce a provision that allows miners and miners to retain their mining rights if they have been posted to fight COVID. This is, of course, a very good, very right and fair solution, but on this occasion I would like to ask about all those people who are not seen every day because they are very important facilities in medical protection units. These are the workers who work... It's about room service, maintenance staff, etc. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will they be rewarded for this, just as the workers of the mining industry or medical rescue workers are paid? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u468	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Monica Falej, Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u469	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, at the meeting of the Joint Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, we were to address the issue of equalising educational opportunities, the level of skills of children in classes IV-VIII. Unfortunately, no one thought of classes I-III. Those kids often didn't even hear the school bell. This is especially about class I babies. That's the basic problem. The problem is that they simply do not cope with the reality that they find, do not know each other, do not know how to move in their school environments, their peers. Therefore, I ask that you present a strategy after a year how you want to support children and young people in such a difficult situation. In a situation where there is no good psychiatry or child psychologists, this system simply does not function. If you're putting other stuff in, I've got a big favor to ask. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Tomorrow at the meeting of the local government committee on vaccination for WTZ subjects, because they don't have... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u470	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u471	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Apart from that little extracurricular money, I'd like to ask a serious question to the government. Are you planning to create a large project to make up for educational losses for all young people, with powerful KPO money and European funds in perspective? This is not only about these few basic subjects, but also about many others, including physical education. In my opinion, to catch up, you need a plan from kindergarten to university. I have a question for the government: Is he working on such a large project, bearing in mind that there will soon be a lot of money coming to Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u472	Thank you, sir. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u473	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! These additional measures, educational subsidies for local government units are, of course, a drop in the sea of needs. For many years we have been dealing with underfunding of educational activities. The government provides information that expenditure on education subsidies is increasing, while the local government shows how much funding it needs to make so that the system can function normally. The requirement for self-governments to contribute is very difficult to implement in small rural communities, where education expenditures represent almost 40-50%. This also prevents local investment, municipal investments that citizens are waiting for. Therefore, I have a question. Please respond in writing. What measures are foreseen for the educational bell this year? What does it look like compared to previous years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u474	Thank you, sir. I invite Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u475	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Education subsidies increasingly do not cover the basic costs of education funding. We have proved this repeatedly in recent years, when the government has actually systematically shifted the burden of funding educational tasks into local government units. Today, this problem is getting worse because the epidemic has caused the income of local government units to be burdened with a significant loss, and it is known that JST has a much less ability to generate additional own income from other sources. And the question is, is the government, because today's addition is a drop in the sea of needs, or does the government set up additional special programs in which local governments will be able to solve the problems that will form (the Bell) as a result of epidemics and remote teaching, related to filling the gaps that will over these months become more complex? If these programmes are planned, please inform me what, and how much money the government intends to allocate for this purpose.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u476	Thank you, Member. Thank you very much, Member. I ask Mr Krzysztof Bosak, the Confederation. You're welcome. There is no Mr Krzysztof Bosak. In that case, the list of MEPs was exhausted. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education, please take the floor. You're welcome. [[The Secretary of State's statement is displayed on videos]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u477	Good evening. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the beginning, an explanation, because there were questions from some of the Members, why I am not in the Chamber. Unfortunately, I have been affected by the illness which the Polish state is also fighting at the moment, and I cannot simply participate in the sitting in a different way, in the proceedings of the Sejm. As far as the law is concerned, it must be made clear that this programme which we are proposing at the moment is one of the several programmes offered by the government to combat, reduce the negative effects of the epidemic in education. In addition to the support activities we are currently discussing, this is also a programme of additional pedagogical and psychological assistance, it is also an additional exercise to reduce the negative effects of obesity growth, as well as a screening programme in terms of vision defects. All these programs together are hundreds of millions of zlotys. It should also be said that in recent months the government has allocated over a billion zlotys for additional funds mainly allocated to local governments and schools for the purchase of equipment that is used for remote learning. So speaking about the fact that we are only limited to 187 million, which are enshrined in the Act, is obviously not true. With reference to the amounts that often appear here, unfortunately, I must correct the mistakes or lies that some Members have duplicated. The amount of 187 million is enough... For one student it will be an amount of about 55 PLN, a student entitled from classes IV to VIII of primary school, not 9 PLN, as several Members have tried to suggest in this Chamber. Money for all local governments and schools interested in supporting classes is enough because local governments will have to apply for funding, finance activities that will be planned for individual schools. We agree that remote teaching is not as effective as stationary teaching, but please do not suggest that one of the Members in the Chamber has done that the government is responsible for the outbreak and that students must use such a form of science. This is an emergency exit, so to speak, and all countries around the world use similar methods, and Poland, compared to most countries in the world and Europe, has organised this much better and this is largely due to teachers. Some of you are trying to say that remote teaching does not have any effect at all, and that, you can say, is one great accusation against teachers, and yet you have appreciated the work of teachers, and you know very well that with the technical means that we have at our disposal today, teachers are able to pass on at least a majority of the vast majority of the knowledge and skills that students should have. We are also aware of other shortcomings, these psychological and social, and hence, as I said, and this must be clearly emphasised, the government also proposes other forms of support in other areas which are intended to facilitate the return of teachers, students and parents to stationary teaching. We could not determine from which point of time this aid would be possible, because we do not know when the students will eventually return to fixed school, but there must be an advance security for this type of activity and hence this law. In the regulation, we will specify exactly the conditions for obtaining extracurricular money and when students return to their stationary classes, local governments and schools will be able to apply for these funds. There is also false information here that the government is planning to abolish special education. That is not true, and we will definitely talk about the details at the committee meeting. Another element, why there are no I-III students. Perhaps you did not pay attention to this, but the government, when deciding on further sharpenings, tried the most not to introduce remote learning for the youngest children, in kindergartens and in classes I-III. We are aware that remote learning opportunities are very limited there, and that is why the youngest children usually return to schools during the first decisions on loosening. In addition, in classes I-III is one teacher who conducts most of the classes and is able to take the time to first encourage pupils to re-integrate into schools and, on the other hand, allocate time to those classes that are most needed. We are additionally spending significant resources: education subsidies in the last few years, at least increased by about 30%, is already over PLN 52 billion. These are also additional funds, for example under the Government Fund for Local Investment or the Fund for Local Roads and there the local government does not have to spend money, it can spend at least to a small extent also on educational expenditure. I hope that you will support this bill, because it allows schools that are ready and interested in helping children to return to their fixed education, to complement those shortcomings which unfortunately involve an epidemic... This will be possible, which is why we think this is a good bill and, if necessary, we will also return to the discussion, perhaps in the coming months we will also ask for further resources for additional classes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u478	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft law amending the Law on the Charter of the Large Family, the Act on the IT of entities performing public tasks and the Act on the care of children under the age of 3 (prints No. 970 and 1057). I would like to ask Mrs Ewa Kozanecka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u479	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's proposal to amend the Bill on the Charter of the Large Family, the Act on the ITisation of the activities of entities carrying out public tasks and the Act on the care of children under the age of 3, print No. 970. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for first reading on 24 February 2021. The project includes solutions addressed directly to multi-children's families and childcare institutions under the age of 3 which will contribute, among others. to do things in the offices more efficiently. The proposed regulations include changes in the area of the Large Family Card. The most important changes are to extend the possibility of displaying the Large Family Cards in both the public mobile app mCitizen, as well as in other applications, as well as changes in forms of childcare under the age of 3. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 29 March 2021, brings forward: The High Sejm will adopt the attached draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u480	Thank you, Madam President. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mr Leszek Dobrzyński, Law and Justice. You're welcome. The Member is to speak remotely, which is why we are waiting a while longer. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] In that case, may I ask Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, the Civic Coalition? Are you an MP? You're welcome. If we have a connection to your Member, we'll get back to him.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u481	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The removal of all barriers to administration, which leads to the effective referral of assistance to families, deserves approval. In addition, in the case of this project, we are dealing with solutions that improve both parents and children's sense of safety. The Polish programme supporting families of many children entered into force on 16 June 2014 and since 1 January 2015 the programme has been implemented on the basis of the Large Family Charter Act. And this is really one of the few so-called examples. good follow-up. Unfortunately, you tend to eliminate many good programs because they are not yours. Luckily, the Charter of the Large Family, which was introduced by the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, was preserved and its regulations are systematically improved. And it could be such a ray of hope that there are, however, topics, just like support for families where we can and must cooperate, topics that we can remove from the framework of fierce political disputes. In 2018, the Large Family Kart system was enriched with a mobile application. An important change that the project introduces is the possibility to use the card benefits via mCitizen's application, instead of having a separate application dedicated exclusively to the card. This will take place without the need to apply for an electronic card. However, traditional cards will still be issued out of office and this is important in the context of the protection of the rights of people who do not want or cannot use the mCitizen app, and also foreigners who in Poland are covered by the right to hold the card. What we are very happy about is the strong support for the local authorities that we have requested and which brings this project. And it's not often these days that this government decides to reduce the administrative burden for local government units. Projectors abolish the reporting obligation for municipalities and voivodships to implement the Large Family Charter Act. The IT system - i.e. SI KDR - provides the possibility to download reports containing the data provided in the report. You can imagine how long this has taken so far and what simplification it will be. We also welcome the increase in service costs, but above all the harmonisation of the amount due to the municipality for examining the application for the Big Family Card for a new family. The present act also introduces a number of sensible changes in the care of children under the age of 3. Regulation significantly improves contact with care providers under the age of 3. It goes on, among other things. about the transmission of telephone numbers and e-mail addresses. It also deserves support from the selection of day-to-day carers by means of a competition of offers. Recruiting under the Act of 24 April 2003 on Public Use Activities and Volunteering will make this procedure much easier. Certainly, the fact that we are positively assessing the proposed changes does not mean that additional and necessary solutions cannot be included in the project. Our amendment, which I'm about to put on your marshal's hands in a moment, concerns support for the hiring of nannies. We believe that in families where more than one child is born in one birth, the possibility of involving a nanny with a state subsidy should apply from the first week of age rather than from 21. This will be discussed more in your speech by Mrs Iwona Kozłowska. We know very well that responsibilities then are very much, especially in a pandemic situation, when the help of parents, grandparents is limited. We believe that it is worth meeting these needs. I'm summing up. As the Civic Coalition Club, we will support the proposed proposal by proposing an additional one amendment that I mentioned. We encourage you to support this amendment because we believe that this is a sensible and good solution. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u482	Thank you, Member. I invite Mrs Katarzyna Kotula, Left. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u483	Good morning. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left in relation to the bill amending the Act on the Charter of the Large Family, the Act on computerization of activities of entities carrying out public tasks and the Act on the care of children under the age of 3. In the explanatory memorandum of the Act, you write that the current government is taking a number of systematic steps to improve the situation of families and citizens, while at the same time seeking to reduce bureaucracy by introducing a number of facilitations both for citizens, businesses and their offices. The harmonisation of public services as part of their digitalisation, which is included in the proposed change, should be a constant direction of government work. And we strongly support that. Today's draft law should be one of the points of digitisation and simplification of procedures. This is also a good time to discuss digital exclusion. The government must ensure that as many people as possible can use public services in electronic form. More than 4.5 million Poles and Poles have never used the Internet, and Poland among the countries of the European Union has one of the highest indicators of people never using the Internet. As the Consumer Federation report shows, the most vulnerable to digital exclusion are households with the lowest incomes and as many as 945 thousand. people with disabilities, i.e. 36% It never used a computer. Dear Government! It's worth paying attention to. At the same time, on the occasion, I would like to point out that, in the proposed amendment, there is no reference to the two problems raised in previous years by both the Ombudsman and the previous Ombudsman. As already indicated in 2014 Marek Michalak, former spokesperson for the rights of the child, the Large Family Card can discriminate against couples without marriage. The basic documents giving entitlement to discounts shall be granted to families who are dependent on at least three children. The problem is that the regulation of 27 May 2014 on detailed conditions for implementing the government multi-child programme narrows down the definition of the family in relation to the Law of 12 March 2004 on social assistance under which it was issued. As a result, the Large Family Card cannot be used e.g. some informal relationships raising up even four children. In a situation where a man and his partner raise four children but do not have a marriage, the father is denied the right, even though he actually runs a common household with his partner and four children. In this connection, I would like to ask: Why do not the rights of the programme have the right of non-formal union holders if the spouse of the parent, where the parent has at least three children, have those rights, even if the spouse does not have any child of his own? The Social Assistance Act provides for a broader definition of the family. They are related or unrelated persons who are in a real relationship, living and managing together. If a similar definition were adopted in the Large Family Charter Act, so-called. Patchwork families would be supported whether or not their parents got married. The rights granted in the Charter of the Large Family are intended not only for adults but also for the youngest members of the family, and children have no influence on the relationship of carers. This means that this regulation is defective. The purpose of the Bill on the Charter of the Big Family is not, as I understand it, to promote the institution of marriage, but to help a family of many children, especially children. The measures are therefore inadequate and may discriminate and therefore need to be amended. Question: "Is this a change in the government's mind?" In addition, in 2016, the Ombudsman warned that children from a child's home or an emergency room could not receive the Large Family Charter. By defining the concept of a family member, the legislator apart from parents and children and the parent's spouse also pointed out foster parents and people running the family home of the child. In this way, however, children were excluded, who were sent to extra-family foster care. Such a restriction is not justified because children do not have an impact on which form of foster care - family care or institutional care - were brought about by the intervention of the care court. The Ombudsman points out that such regulation of the Charter can be accused of breaching the constitutionally guaranteed principle of equality. It is difficult to determine why, in fact, apart from austerity considerations, this limitation is intended. Public authorities are obliged to create a coherent social policy system and to support children and the family, as set out in Article. 72 The basic law guarantees of special assistance and care for unaccompanied children cannot be respected selectively. I'd like to ask if the government is working on these changes. However, since today's proposed bill is intended to introduce a number of changes in ordering and systematic rules for granting the Large Family Charter, in particular as regards the computerisation of these processes, and since we welcome the proposed amendments to the Child Welfare Act under the age of 3, the parliamentary club of the Left will support the proposed proposal in its present form. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u484	Thank you, Member. I invite Mr Leszek Dobrzyński, the Law and Justice. We've got a call from an MP. You're welcome, sir. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u485	Dear... Can you hear me yet? Hear, hear, sir. Please. All right. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the draft law amending the Law on the Charter of the Large Family, the Act on the informationization of activities of entities carrying out public tasks and the Act on the care of children under the age of 3. Ladies and gentlemen! This project, the Large Family Charter, has been implemented for over 6 years and has become one of the permanent and permanent elements of our family policy, a policy supporting Polish families. This project that we are discussing today, the proposal for amendments, introduces most of the changes that can be defined technically, among others. extends the possibility of displaying the Large Family Cards in the mCitizen app, but also in other applications created by the Minister responsible for family affairs. I think that this is a good step towards using the digital opportunities that our times offer and the opportunities to use the card, as well as increasing the visibility of the card in various applications and systems used more and more frequently by various ministries. The project also raises the demand already made by local authorities to increase the cost of service and to unify the amount due to the municipality for examining the request for granting the Large Family Card to a new family, whether it is a family in which all family members or parents are entitled to the Large Family Charter. It is proposed to increase the amounts available to municipalities for processing applications and to introduce rounded amounts during the annual valorisation rate equal to the total consumer price and service index in the year preceding the year in which the verification is carried out to the full zloty. Another change aimed at facilitating the implementation of the Large Family Charter Act by voivodships, mayors and city presidents is the elimination of reporting obligations from the implementation of the law for municipalities and voivodships, as well as for voivodships and marshals in the area of local programmes for multi-child families. The reporting obligation constitutes an additional burden for the legislators. This amendment also provides for the possibility for the Minister responsible for family affairs to obtain information on the death of card holders electronically from the PESEL database. This also makes it easier to eliminate possible misunderstandings, abuses that may occur with the data being transmitted so far. Ladies and gentlemen. With regard to forms of childcare under the age of 3 the general requirements for the staff of childcare institutions of this age have been clarified, and as regards the entities that create these care institutions, the scope of the data collected in the framework of the implementation of the Child Welfare Act under the age of 3 has also been extended. In conclusion, all of these, once again, in my opinion, are intended to facilitate the functioning of the laws in question, to control their implementation and to facilitate the use of current data on implementation. I think it is also important to see an increase in rates in the cost of implementing the Large Family Charter by local governments and the impact on reducing the bureaucracy of all the ideas that we are going to vote on here. All changes should also make the Large Family Charter project more flexible and adapt more to our current IT and mobile-digital opportunities, which are increasing every year. Ladies and gentlemen. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u486	Thank you, sir. I invite Mrs Bożena Żalewska, the Coalition of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u487	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers! Today we are leaning on a draft law submitted to the government on how important the issue of social assistance for families of many children, as well as the amendment of the act on computerization of activities of entities carrying out public tasks and the Act on childcare under the age of 3. The problem contained in the Government's draft Print Act No 970, after its first reading in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on 29 March 2021, in the evaluation of the Parliamentary Club, the Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, despite some shortcomings, contains solutions for society and in particular the existence of the family. I would like to remind you that the Large Family Charter, the Large Family Charter Act was created thanks to the efforts of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club and was introduced under the PO-PSL regime when Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz was Minister of Labour and Social Policy. Fortunately, the name of this law has not been changed. Today we have an amendment to it. With regard to this revision of the Large Family Charter Act, it is appropriate to extend the possibility of displaying this document electronically in both the public mobile application and while maintaining the possibility for the Minister responsible for family affairs to create his own application for displaying cards. With regard to the obligation for applicants to charge a new card, no fee will be charged if the card is renewed, the data changed or the application for a duplicate card is submitted. The draft law clarifies the procedure for introducing a new variant of the certificate, which will be issued to the holder of the school card in electronic form. The Act also amends the procedure for dealing with contact details of members of the multi-child family when it comes to contacting municipalities receiving applications. It is appropriate to accept the proposed amendment to the solution on cost valorisation, including the rounding of certain amounts up to full zlotys. In view of the importance of helping families with many children, as well as the epidemic situation in the country, it is also to be welcomed to facilitate the implementation of the Large Family Charter Act by local authorities, which is to abolish the reporting obligation for municipalities and voivodships from its implementation, as well as for oldosts and marshals of voivodships in the field of local programmes for multi-children families. Given the above and other solutions contained in the amendment of the law, I inform you that the Coalition of Poland - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, the Conservatives will support this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u488	Thank you, Member. I invite Mr Michael Urbaniak, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u489	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This draft law on amending the Charter of the Large Family provides for the computerisation of activities of entities carrying out public tasks. The direction of these actions is broadly in line with the needs of the 21st century. It is good that the possibility of issuing a card will be twofold: both electronic and traditional. No obligation to give a telephone number and e-mail address - whether the elimination of reporting obligations for municipalities and voivodships - by members of families of many children is a good step towards maintaining more competences at a level closer to people. In accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, what we can do at the lowest levels, let's do there. On the other hand, it may wonder to add the obligation to indicate in the application for entry of a nursery or a children's club in the register of nursery and children's clubs telephone numbers and e-mail addresses. Could that be the right thing to do? As regards the clarification of the general requirements for childcare under the age of 3, the intention is also to protect our youngest children. It's about checking that these people aren't in the sex offenders' records. Excellent, let's go this way. This project could be summarised in such a way, while talking about pro-family policies cannot be addressed in relation to the tragic demographic situation that is in our homeland. Because the financial system of motivation that we have in Poland today assumes among others. restricting itself to the tool of redistribution. The experience of other European countries shows the high effectiveness of a well-planned system of tax relief progression - growing with each child. Discounts could be calculated either on a monthly basis or on a percentage basis. For many Polish families such motivation to expand the family through really higher earnings would be very important. At the same time, the use of such a relief by nature would be simpler and cheaper than a redistribution that works only at this moment. The Polish system also lacks real family benefits or they are symbolic. The real achievement of these goals probably requires a really thorough and systemic change. A higher tax-free amount would also be important. Another fiscal tool worth paying attention to in the case of family policies is the impact of the State on the prices of certain products, even through VAT. Today, this catalogue of products that have a reduced VAT rate is too narrow. It would be worth expanding to relieve Polish families. Another issue worth discussing would be the question of extending the possibility of caring for children, making it easier because, as we know, not once and not twice the problem in Polish homes is that there is no one to leave children with, especially if both parents work with. Here you might want to consider an extended system that would allow you to open home crèches or home kindergartens, which would be a strong support for today's system that we have. Thank you. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u490	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Mucha, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u491	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Polska 2050 Circle in relation to the Act amending the Act on the Charter of the Large Family, the Act on the ITization of activities of entities carrying out public tasks and the Act on childcare of children under the age of 3. My esteemed speakers and previous speakers have actually said quite a lot about this bill in detail. They told us what the records were in it. Mr Leszek Dobrzyński from PiS even just said that these are quite technical issues. Besides, we all know this bill. Therefore, I think it might be worth saying a few more general words at the end of this debate, on the issue of the family itself and on the state aid it is currently receiving. It seems to me that this is the second situation today when I stand on this speaker and say the same thing, I say that you are dealing with powdering problems, not solving them. Because today's problems of Polish families are completely different. I want to claim poor families from this speaker, because poverty is the one thing that excludes most, it does not allow for a good life. How is it possible to transfer tens of billions of zlotys and cause relatively little improvement? In 2016, 1,900 thousand lived in extreme poverty in Poland. persons. This figure increased by 100,000 in 2019. How is that possible? I want to claim families in which there are people with disabilities, often prisoners of the third, fourth heel, and others who are unable to leave the house. They are mothers and sometimes fathers taking care of children with different kinds of disabilities who exist actually somewhere on the edge of a decent life. I want to claim those families who don't like the government so much today that you first ruled them out of the 500+ program, mothers and fathers raising children alone. Where's the alimony for these people, for those who really need help? Nothing has improved here despite these very many declarations from you. I want to claim a parent living with grown-up children because they don't have a chance to live in their own apartment. Where's the apartment program? Where are the thousands of apartments you promised? I want to claim families who don't have access to the bathroom or the toilet. A million households in Poland without access to the bathroom. This lack of toilet Whether bathrooms are total social exclusion. Imagine a young girl or a young boy who will never invite friends to the house because they're ashamed. You don't have that program on your radar at all, that problem on your radar. What have you guys been doing for eight years? I want to claim the families that you argued with, just like it never was in Poland. A daily portion of hate poisoning, gutting, and exposing people to themselves by means of propaganda tools, because it's not the media. You took responsibility for the tragedy of millions of Polish families falling apart like houses of cards. I want to claim the families in which violence dominates, the ones in every form. I know violence doesn't bother you. Some of your men in the ranks even say that a beating husband needs to be carried like a cross, but this violence kills, this violence takes health, this violence takes dignity. The state has a duty to stand on the side of its citizens, not on the side of humiliating women's sects. I want to claim families affected by addictions that often turn their lives into hell. I want to claim families whose members are non-heteronormative, and I want to tell you that you just stop taking care of them. It's for the best. Just like you. If you want to take care of your family today, stop hurting her at first. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u492	Thank you, Member. We're coming, ladies and gentlemen, to ask questions. I am closing the list of Members who want to ask a question. I invite Mrs Iwona Kozłowska, the Civic Coalition. Here you go, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u493	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to justify the amendment tabled by the Civic Coalition Club. The current rules state that the right to employ a nanny has been granted to parents only since the 20th week of the child's life. Many times I have been told that this is an irrational solution when more than one child is born. Shouldn't the right to employ a nanny in such cases be granted at least from the first week of the child's life? The range of childcare responsibilities is so great that for the comfort of the family, additional help in taking care of several children would in principle be advisable even after the mother left the hospital. What if twins or triplets are born with disabilities? Does the Ministry monitor such situations? I have repeatedly addressed this matter to the social policy department and the family. I wrote interpellations, talked about this problem during the parliamentary debates, talked to my fellow Members who [[♪ The bell ♪]] work in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy. Did the Ministry analyze the situation of mothers who had more than one child when they had twins or triplets... Member, finish up. ...with disabilities in order to provide them with the earliest and best care for children. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u494	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Richard Wilczyński, the Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u495	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Large Family Charter is an excellent solution from the times of the government of PO-PSL and happily that continued and developed, it has to be noted. Nevertheless, it must be seen that they have grown in a certain administrative mite. An example can be found, for example. settlement of the state budget for issuing the Large Family Charter, which in the country after these changes costs about PLN 2 million. This is small money, you have to look for this kind of thing, a general formula that would eliminate this kind of settlement. It's worth remembering. I would like to ask you about the issue of the passport allowance, because it is from the pocket to the pocket of the state budget, these fees are charged by the voivode. I understand that this is due to the fact that the printing of the blank costs, let's ask the question: How much in Poland it costs to print the blank of the passport, because the basic fee [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's 140 zlotys? It's worth telling the public. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u496	Thank you, sir. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u497	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill amending the Large Family Charter Act is generally a good project, because any solution that aims to support the family will be a good solution. Any solution that is to reduce bureaucratic responsibilities both on the part of the citizen and on the side of the administration, above all on the part of the local government, is also a good solution. On the other hand, I would like to ask whether you are planning any major policy changes related to the Large Family Charter or other social and social programmes, because they were also supposed to improve the fertility of Poles in addition to this dimension of support for families. However, it turns out that unfortunately this is not the case. Do you have any idea that this childhood would actually be bigger? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u498	Thank you, sir. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition. I don't see a Member. Then I invite Mr. Piotr Boris, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u499	Ladies and gentlemen! The Large Family Charter is an initiative announced by President Bronisław Komorowski in March 2013. I am delighted that this programme is developing, that it is continued by the current government, which has added no additional names plus, minus and many citizens can use it. We must do everything we can to facilitate the use of a number of services to promote this form of activity. What I'm saying is that this year we have the lowest birth rate in 15 years. We also have the highest rate of death: 480 thousand. our Polish citizens, the highest since the end of World War II. Demographic policy is in a catastrophic state - a catastrophic state. The difference between the number of deaths and births in Poland is over 120 thousand. It is important to consider how to change this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And part of that is, of course, the promotion of the Big Family Charter. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u500	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. In that case, Mr Adam Sněžek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u501	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! As I learned from the justification of the bill, nearly one million families now have a Large Family Charter, of which about 600 thousand. They are now families with children and about 400,000. families who have ever had at least three children. These are impressive numbers. I would like to ask the Minister whether this means that practically all families in Poland currently benefit from the Large Family Charter. I would also like to ask how much the Ministry estimates the amount of support it receives for families with many children through this programme.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u502	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u503	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Big Family Card is a good family support project. As regards the proposed changes regarding access to data contained in the Large Family Charter via the mobile app, it must be acknowledged that these are some of the few proposals I have had in recent months that do not raise far-reaching doubts and do not violate existing legislation. The only question I have is that there is no clear provision setting out the obligation for the competent minister to indicate a free application. Hence my question: Will this application actually be free of charge and is the possibility for external entities not related to state administration envisaged to create applications? I ask you kindly to answer in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u504	Thank you, sir. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u505	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Finally. Finally, we are in the 21st century and families through the electronic system can establish the Large Family Charter. Bravo! Bravo! On the other hand, my question is as follows: Will the nationwide Charter of the Large Family, which we are talking about, which is the bill on which we are proceeding, be consolidated with local cards, with self-government cards? Will bonuses and discounts on services that are specified in local cards be included in the national card? It would be great if in this respect the local government had an impact on what is in the national charter, and it would be great if the family that has the Large Family Charter could benefit from the maximum benefits both nationwide and local. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u506	Thank you, Member. I invite Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u507	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm glad you're continuing your program on the big family, the program that your predecessors started. Indeed, the demographic situation in our country is not very cheerful, so many families deserve great support. Of course, I will vote for all the simplifications you will be proposing. I give you two more simplifications and two solutions that can partly change this demographic situation, although this is a long-term process. Firstly, make more use of local governments - you really need to trust the presidents, you need to trust the councilmen - there are many good ideas. Secondly, apply - Don't be afraid of the state - tax relief for families of many children. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In my opinion, this will also be very beneficial. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u508	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u509	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister of the Family and Social Policy, using today's debate on the Charter of the Family, the functioning of the Family, I would like to ask you about the implementation of the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal of 14 October 2014 concerning the diversity of childcare services, which for children, let us remind you, the disabled, i.e. parents and carers who raise them, is currently PLN 1971 and for adults with disabilities is PLN 620. At the moment when it is decided by the municipality, people refer to the SKO and the SKO grants these higher amounts, but in the meantime there are legal firms who expect them to run these cases (the bell), and expect amounts several times higher than the amounts of these allowances to be implemented, to represent these parties. When will this judgment of the tribunal be carried out?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u510	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Bogusław Wontor, Left. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u511	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! To become an employee, e.g. Daycare, you have to show that you're not on the record of sex crimes. Very good. My question is addressed to government representatives: Has this provision been introduced preventively, or were there any negative examples that caused this recording? If your marshal will allow me, a little irregularly, but I will ask, because I asked you at the previous point and asked you a question about legislation on the previous law. Is it correct or not, would you please respond to this and answer the question? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u512	Thank you, sir. We're not gonna talk about this right now because we're at a completely different point. There you go, Mr Michał Grammar, the Civic Coalition. But at that point, your marshal didn't answer. Because it's not for me, sir. These are questions for the ministers. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u513	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am very happy to welcome the transfer of the Large Family Card to the mCitizen's platform. If I can afford a suggestion, I would suggest that this card should also be issued in a format that is understandable to Wallet applications, i.e. in a format that will allow this card to be presented as a physical card. Taking advantage of my vote, I wanted to thank your marshal, because another document that will be transferred to the mCitizen's platform will be Parliamentary IDs, and that would not have happened if it had not been for the favor of your marshals. Thank you very much. The only thing that separates us from this is the agreement with the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u514	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Mrs Barbara Socha. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u515	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to receive votes in favour of amendments to the Large Family Charter Act and the Children's Care Act up to 3 years old. I welcome such a common position and common support for family-friendly policies, which the United Rights Government has been leading for almost 6 years. On the other hand, I am very surprised by the voices on issues related to more serious changes. It's been five years. Recently, we celebrated the 5th anniversary of the 500+ programme, the first important programme, a major change which has essentially affected the living conditions of families in Poland. To the Members who paid attention to poverty, I would like to remind you that in 2015 the report by NIK directly spoke about the Polish poverty which had the child's face. Poverty in Poland before 2015 even concerned families in which parents worked, and it was not only families of many children, but even those in which there were two children. Fortunately, for several years, this situation has changed substantially. On the other hand, when it comes to relative poverty, I answer the question of how it happened. In fact, we are relatively victims of our own success in some sense, because Poles' income so increased, because a relatively poor group in this range increased. On the other hand, in answer to the question of planning more serious changes, I will say: yes, we are planning more serious changes and I am already pleased with this discussion, which we will be able to have on - I hope that soon - a demographic strategy, because this document responds in a fundamental way to all the areas that we have identified as areas that have an impact on fertility. Is the demographic situation in Poland catastrophic? Looking at the number of births, you have to say it is. This number of births today, on the other hand, is due to negligence, a lack of family policies over the past 30 years. And what we're up against today... We're gonna face this problem, increase the childhood. On the other hand, because of the negligence that we have experienced in previous years, it will last for a long time, it will last for several years. That's because the demographic increase of the martial law period has passed. Women who were born during this ewe are now 40 years old, and they will no longer have children today. This means that the number of women of procreational age is falling dramatically and very rapidly. That is why it will take at least a dozen years to make up for the backlogs we've worked for for 30 years since, since the beginning of the transformation period. However, these changes will be made, as will all the other ones announced by this government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u516	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill... Excuse me. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy on a draft law amending certain laws in connection with the transfer of funds from open pension funds to individual pension accounts (prints Nos 1005 and 1035). I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u517	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! On 17 March 2021, a draft law amending certain laws on the transfer of funds from open pension funds to individual pension accounts was considered at the plenary meeting of the Sejm. The proposed law provides for the conversion of open pension funds into investment funds that operate individual pension accounts with assets from OFE. Each insured person will have the right to choose, the default option will be to transfer funds from OFE to IKE with the possibility of further supply, but already completely voluntary. At the same time, in the case of persons who decide to move fully to Pillar I, the funds collected in the OFE will be credited to an individual account held in the Social Insurance Institution and the corresponding assets will be transferred to the Demographic Reserve Fund. After the first reading, the law was addressed to the joint committees: Public Finance and Social Policy and Family Policy. The joint committees considered the draft law on 24 March this year. and present a report. The discussion during the committee's work covered a number of aspects. In particular, a 15% fee was discussed at the time of the conversion. During the committee's work, the first request for a public hearing was submitted and the joint committee's request was rejected. Subsequently, a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety was submitted and this request was rejected as well. On the other hand, the Commission adopted amendments concerning, inter alia, speed up the time limit for transfers between OFEs from November to August 2021, supplementing the catalogue of documents necessary for making the transfer payment of declarations of matrimonial property rights, exemption from PIT of funds paid from OFEs to entitled persons and heirs after the loss-making death. An exemption was also introduced from the one-off payment of funds from the OFE by the saver to whom the OFE account was opened in connection with the death of his spouse and many other editorial and legislative amendments. According to tradition, committees also authorised the Legislative Office to make editorial and legislative corrections in the draft law. Finally, the Joint Committees on Public Finance and Social Policy recommend adopting a draft law, simultaneously submitting 11 proposals for minorities that have been submitted, among others. Again, the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety, the proposal to amend the title of the draft law, etc. The report submitted to the committee is contained in print No 1035. The committees recommend the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u518	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Adam Sněžek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u519	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Public Finance and Social Policy and Family Committees discussed the government print project No. 1005 at the joint meeting and, having regard to the amendments, adopted a draft law amending certain laws in connection with the transfer of funds from open pension funds to individual pension accounts, print No. 1035. This project aims to repair the pension system strained by the large and unexpected transfer of assets from OFE to ZUS by the Government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party in 2014 for the rescue of mismanaged state finances. The solutions adopted in the draft law will be used to rebuild the capital pillar on new principles while guaranteeing the private nature of the measures collected under it. The proposed law provides for the conversion of open pension funds into investment funds operating individual pension accounts with assets from OFE. The insured will decide for themselves to transfer their funds raised in open funds from contributions to the IKE or to the ZUS. Persons who choose the complete transition to Pillar I through the declaration will have transferred their assets from OFE to the Demographic Reserve Fund and their value will be recorded in an individual account held in the ZUS. The default option will be to transfer funds to the IKE with the possibility of further voluntary power supply. The contributions collected on individual pension accounts will be private property that saves inviolable property from the State. The payment of these measures after the insured person's retirement age will be tax-free. The equivalent of income tax and health insurance contributions charged to pensioners from the Social Insurance Fund will be a one-off conversion fee of 15% for funds transferred to IKE. . Individual pension accounts combined with developing employee capital plans will constitute a stronger second pillar of the pension system. These solutions which increase the opportunities and guarantees of voluntary retirement savings will strengthen citizens' confidence in the pension system and stabilise the pension security of Poles. This will mean an increase in long-term private savings, which will positively affect the economic stability of the country, strengthening the Polish capital market and its investment potential. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the bill submitted. At the same time, our club makes six amendments clarifying certain provisions of the Act. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u520	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Mark Owl, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u521	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition has the honour to present our position on the Law on the Elimination of Open Pension Funds. We have an hour. 9:30 p.m. and it's just like it's been many times, like you and me. You're used to it. Under the cover of the night, what can you do? You can jump, make a heist for the money, save the Poles. Besides, this bill fits perfectly into the PiS DNA. PiS DNA is new taxes, usually higher new fees, more tributes - we already have about 40 such laws introduced - the embezzlement of the state institutions, the jump on companies of the State Treasury, and today - on savings of Poles. This bill hits over 15 million future pensioners, no matter what they choose. If they choose to stay in the ZUS, they'll lose their inheritance. This is very important in particular for women who usually live longer and for whom a husband's pension is a part that is a very important income element. PiS takes away their chances of saving money from their own husband. Let me remind you that the Civic Platform, moving funds from OFE to ZUS, guaranteed inheritance. If someone chooses IKE, they'll lose 15%. Your savings. He's just gonna get robbed. You're probably all wondering what 15% is. . We don't know, because there's no information action, just propaganda. The savings collected are different. One has $1,000. PLN, another - 100,000. savings, or maybe 200,000. But let's leave 100,000, for example. That means 15%. For them, it's 15 grand. zł. What right does the PiS government want to take 15 grand? zł pension savings for middle-class workers who worked their entire lives on the job, paid contributions, taxes? These are Polish engineers, IT engineers, scientists, teachers, doctors, people to whom Poland owes so much. Why does the PiS want to take your $15,000? Evil? I mean, it's cheating and bullshit. I know you often refer to our governments. It's often heard, and you guys... Then I'll explain it to you again. By dying the bonds, the Platform made sure that no member of the OFE lost a penny. Remember, not a penny. And you take 15%. 15% It's just a racket. Your stories that this is a substitute for income tax are a lie that accompanies you every day. Why? A few examples. First of all, we don't know the income tax rate in the future. And yet, the PiS promises a pension of up to 2.5 thousand. zł will be tax-free. Secondly, even today, if a pensioner has 1500 zlotys, makes a donation, buys drugs, how much will he really pay? 10% (12%) Tax? And if he makes use of the thermomodernization relief, this tax will be much smaller. Third, why do you want to rob local governments? If it's a substitute for tax, it's got to be shared. Today, local governments have half the stake in Drink, and you're just denying them that right. Finally, income tax. It is paid when you get that income, not 10, 20 or 30 years earlier. Let's not be fooled, it's not a conversion fee, it's a typical racket, you need for your governments. This bill is a leap to over 20 billion savings of Poles and Poles. This money will be in the PiS pocket in 2022 and will be used for new limousines and Jack Kurski's TV, because that is your priorities. Therefore, on behalf of the Civic Coalition, I propose that this law be rejected at second reading. And if this motion doesn't go through, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I've got eight corrections... Thank you, sir. ...which radically reduces theft in relation to future pensioners. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u522	I invite Mr Adrian Zandberg from the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u523	High Izbo! Unfortunately, a law of evil has returned to the Sejm, a law written to a large extent under the interests of the financial markets, a law which forces people into the hands of private funds according to the exact same logic that once stood behind OFE. The consequences of introducing the infamous OFE are still felt today. This system has trained the state budget, but we are still struggling with the growing problem of poverty for pensioners. More than 300,000 already. Seniors get pensions lower than minimum at this point and with each month of such poverty there will be more and more. I believe that no one in this room, sitting here, wants these people to starve to death. But if it is necessary to help the victims of this system of privatised pensions, it means that the burden of this assistance will have to be borne by the state, not by private capital, not by private funds, because those who promised to retire under palm trees in lying advertisements can only laugh at the naivety of the politicians who voted for it. I'm talking about this for a reason. In this room are the politicians of the AWS and the Freedom Union who then pushed this absurdity. Now, of course, these parties are called different, these politicians are sitting on the benches of the PiS and Platforms, but all the more reason to make it sound like it, ladies and gentlemen. By privatizing pensions, we have to pay twice. First, we've gotten into the profits of the financial sector companies, and now we're gonna have to ensure a decent old age for pensioners, because it turns out that private funds can't do that. The profits were therefore privatised again, and the costs, the real social costs, were pushed to the state. High Izbo! There's a pretty insolent rule in this bill, clearly written under the dictation of financial institutions. Under this provision, contributions from citizens to private funds shall be transferred without their expressing their will. This reminds me of unfair commercial practices, whether it's telephone networks or banks that sell people services that the customer doesn't need at all. I already talked about it at first reading. The state should not behave like an unfair financial corporation salesman, and in particular should not do so when the government's prime minister is an ex-banker. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to address Members of the NSZZ Solidarity Group. Ladies and gentlemen, the National Commission has adopted a very reasonable position on this provision concerning the force of private funds. I would like to address you, Members of the Solidarity Committee: vote on this matter in line with the position of the National Commission. Vote on this matter in accordance with the position of the union. I can declare that we, the entire coalition club of the Left, will vote on this matter in accordance with the position of the National Trade Union Agreement, in line with the position of people who know the cost of this wrong solution that you have written down in this bill, the cost for people who work. We can change this curial rule together, and I encourage these Members for whom the legitimacy of solidarity in their pockets is more than junk. Ladies and gentlemen! We've had the biggest health and social crisis since World War II. At this time, we need the stability of the US and the stability of the whole public finance sector. This is a really bad time to make more gifts to the capital markets. I can tell you in advance what will happen if this law is adopted. Small savings that will be saved in these accounts will over time be eaten by management fees. Of course, the IKE does not guarantee a lifetime pension and when it comes to payment of benefits, it will end as usual: we will have even more poor pensioners than today and again we will have to involve funds from the budget to help these people. Ladies and gentlemen! At the heart of this system, OFE was a lie, according to which privatisation of the pension system is good for people. And the same lie, unfortunately, was repeated here by Minister Buda from the Seym tribune. This lie is not worth repeating, and this lie is not worth perpetuating. Another installment of the privatized pension system is needed in Poland like a hole in the bridge. The coalition club of the Left speaks clearly on this matter, and I say this also on behalf of the Together but also on behalf of the New Left, on behalf of the Polish Socialist Party, on behalf of Spring: not for the privatisation of pensions. That is why we are in favour of rejecting this law. And amendments fulfilling the demands of trade unions, [[♪ The bell ♪]] of which fulfilling NSZZ's demands... Thank you, sir. We're putting together a marshal for you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u524	Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u525	Thank you, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, When 4 weeks ago we started the debate on this project, on behalf of the Polish Coalition club I asked from this place, first of all, what is the purpose of this forced transfer of pension savings from OFE to individual pension accounts outside the collection by the government of every saver, i.e. almost 15 million Poles, 15% the amount already collected by them in the OFE. Secondly, I asked what PiS wanted to charge this 15% conversion fee for, since the conversion of open pension funds into specialised investment funds does not require any activity, either physically or administratively. Only the name will change, and the address, employees, boards, supervisory boards will remain the same. I also asked why the Government of PiS provides for the transfer of pension savings of Poles, of course, reduced by a 15-percent fee for the functioning of the government, only to individual pension accounts and not to individual pension security accounts. And whether or not the reason for this is not the fact that only the funds collected on the IKZE, on these individual pension security accounts can be deducted from personal tax and already the funds collected on the IKE do not give such a possibility. None of these questions were answered either in this room 4 weeks ago or during committee work. However, we learned from the opinions submitted that e.g. The National Bank of Poland - yes, this bank, which is managed by the policy related to PiS - notes that this law may lead to a reduction in the value of assets collected by Poles in OFE and thus create a significant risk of reducing the value of funds they have put aside for pensions. For as the National Bank of Poland writes in its opinion: solutions already proposed a priori are not fully beneficial from the perspective of the interests of the insured. The insured, that's you, my fellow countrymen. The solutions adopted by the PiS government and pushed here by the Law and Justice Club are not beneficial for you - this is stated in its official opinion by a representative of the National Bank of Poland, the institution managed by the Man PiS. We have also learned from the opinion sent by the Confederation of Leviatan that the operation proposed in this Act may lead to the acquisition by the State of shares of many companies listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange, which creates a high economic risk due to the sudden and non-market growth of state activity in the economy. Yes, it is bis socialism, and it is not for the first time, of course only in this sense of the Polish People's Republic, which is good for you and for the nomenclature, but for citizens, including people working - not necessarily. Therefore, on behalf of the Polish Coalition Club, I continue to maintain the opinion that the proper title of this bill should be: Robbery+ and I request that it be rejected in full in the second reading. And in case this application does not obtain a majority, which is very likely, I also make a few amendments on behalf of our club, the most important of which is the elimination of this transformation fee of 15%. , completely unjustified, meaningless except that it is to fund the government budget by means so that it can be spent in the upcoming electoral years for purposes related to the projected or dreamed-up next election victory of the PiS. Another of the amendments gives insured persons the opportunity to transfer their savings from OFE also to an individual pension security account so that they can save in a modern way, also by writing back the savings put aside for their future personal tax pension. Finally, in the amendments we call for the possibility of inheritance to be introduced also in the event that the funds from the OFE decision of the future pensioner as a result of the entry into force of this law will be transferred to the Social Security Office. The individual account in the Social Security Office should be inherited because these are the funds collected [[♪ The bell ♪]] by citizens also with a view to their successors. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u526	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Krzysztof Bosak, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u527	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! It's sad that we have to discuss a project that everyone in this room, including PiS, is basically antisocial and anti-national. Under the noble slogans and completely false phrases that you speak with conviction, at least seemingly, about returning money to Poles, you are really trying to get to the next money box, putting Poles before a complicated and false choice. It's like a gambling game with a fraud. You put Poles before a choice, where every option they choose is just bad for them. I can prove it in a very simple way. If the proposals you have formulated for Poles were beneficial, you would give them the opportunity to remain in the current model, and the benefit of choosing what you have come up with would be to move on to a new model of management of resources, whether to the ZUS or to the IKE, or whatever else you will come up with. You come up with complicated names, complicate these variants to confuse your opponent. And your adversary is a nation, it's a society, because it's a nation, it's a society you've ruled, even under the old name, AWS and the Freedom Union, when you created OFE, you promised to own that money. What were worth these promises, we see in retrospect. The Constitutional Tribunal ruled that these were measures in the public domain. What you promised in the commercials was pure propaganda. We remember spots: Polish pensioners who were supposed to rest under palm trees. It ends in the fact that some of the funds were cut off by the Civic Platform when it ruled, and you're getting to the better part: not the bonds, but the shares. This is the bottom of your operation. You are doing this not only because you need budgetary resources, because you have a problem with the shortcoming of the whole public finance sector, but also because you need to influence other large companies through the shares collected in OFE. You need this influence as a political tool to do your operations, take over the institutions of the financial sector, and that's some kind of media. Orlen is not enough, nor is it possible to buy out everything that interests you, so you need new toys, which Prime Minister Morawiecki will be able to organize this financial engineering, which he has learned in the banking sector and which he is currently offering to President Jarosław Kaczyński as part of his services and will implement for the money of Polish pensioners. This must be said to Poles very honestly and openly: you want your financial and political engineering, your political capitalism, as Jarosław Kaczyński called it, for years rightly criticizing it and knowing exactly what he is talking about, because this political capitalism since the early 1990s created, building a network of real estate management companies around itself, which were acquired from privatisation of national assets after the period of the Polish People's Republic... You're denying yourself. You know exactly what I'm talking about. Please don't disturb me. This political capitalism, which was rightly criticized by the president of your party, who is not here in the Chamber, you creatively want to develop with the money of Polish pensioners, scaring on the one hand the lack of inheritance and, on the other hand, a penalty fee of 15%. Whatever the Pole chooses, it's wrong. This is an alternative before the Pole and Poles should know it. They should know that you are a posing party for a pro-social party fighting for the interests of an ordinary Pole, and in fact you are putting him in front of two options, from whichever one he chooses, he will lose something. And he's gonna lose it to whose benefit? On yours, because either you're going to be in charge of the stock pool, or you're going to be budgetally ahead of this 15%. . Rightly, one of the previous speakers noticed that it is not actually known what these 15% are. It's supposed to be justified at all. All that narration of yours about how you'd still have to pay a tax on it... I thought you wanted to lower those taxes. That's what you say. Of course, you keep raising taxes, making up new ones, tributes, fees, all your creativity is running. Adrian Zandberg, I see, sits delighted with the Members of the Left. Every time you propose a new tax, you vote together. You have a lot in common despite the apparent contradiction between the so-called. The right hand and the actual left. Apart from this question, how can we be sure what these taxes will look like? You say, you assure me that this is the second time this tax will not be paid, because you will write it in the bill. But what's worth the assurance? If another government needs money, the bill will change. Changing the bill is 24 hours, which is what you've shown. If you want, you can do it. If you don't want to, you'll freeze in committees. So bad news for Poles late: you can't trust the PiS. [[♪ The bell ♪]] PiS wants your money and he's gonna take it. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u528	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u529	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The pension system must be stable, safe and predictable. Today you treat this system as a source of additional cash, which you can normally own in the world and from which you can cover the effects of your own incompetence. Putting a hole and deficit in the budget is the main objective of this law. Many years of savings of Poles and Poles, hard worked every day, you are going to squander in a few months. In this way, in the eyes of citizens, the system will become even more unstable, less secure and less predictable. Poles, pensioners - these present and future - deserve three S - stability, peace and respect. You give them disrespect and uncertainty. In order to restore a little sense of stability and security, we have tabled some fundamental amendments to the bill from the citizens' point of view. We want the funds transferred in OFE to the ZUS to be inherited. Such a provision will protect the fundamental interests of current and future pensioners. We expect that 15% of the tribute that Morawiecki wants to collect for the transfer of money from OFE to IKE will be removed from the bill. This looting violates Art. 2 constitutions and there is no justification. The levying of the conversion fee is de facto the nationalisation of the private funds of citizens collected in pension funds accounts. The fee has nothing to do with any cost of the transfer, it is simply a mere misappropriation by the State of the money raised by citizens and will certainly be the subject of mass actions by citizens who will want their money back. Thirdly, we propose to reduce the compulsion of aggressive investment in IKE. The government, coming absolutely out of the position of force, the position assigned to the regulator, wants to take the citizens as part of a 15% tribute safe part of the wallet, leaving in their hands measures aggressively invested in shares. Let each one of you sitting here in the courtroom answer the question and evaluate this move ethically. Fourthly, we want to reverse the declaration mechanism so that the money from the vending machine affects the ZUS, because we know that conscious citizens will take it to the IKE on their own anyway. Only conscious citizens should make informed decisions that they want to allow you to take the racket. Fifthly, we want to postpone the date of entry into force of the law, because we just don't trust you and we don't want to hand over pension savings to you. I will make one more very important amendment today. I don't think it's in the public debate yet. By the way, you want to reduce the powers of members of the board of directors of pension funds. Even there, to funds that manage the money of future pensioners, you want to push the Misiewiczs without qualifications. In the draft law, you waive the requirement to have at least half of the members of the supervisory board of a higher-education legal or economic pension society. Not only do you want to nationalize companies whose shares are in open pension funds portfolios today, but you want to go to the Social Security Office, you want to push unskilled people into the board of directors. How do you want to continue to restore the stability of this system? I said, ladies and gentlemen, three Ss. These three Ss - stability, respect and peace - deserve citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u530	Thank you, Member. And that's where we ended the performances of clubs and circles. Let's get to the questions. 19 parliamentarians came to the questions. I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mrs Paulina Matysiak, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u531	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Not for the privatisation of pensions. It must be made clear - this bill will in no way improve the fate of Polish pensioners. Let's stop for a moment and look at the latest data from the Central Statistical Office. We have an increasing percentage of seniors living in poverty in Poland. Between 2015 and 2018 - from this period are the latest analyses - there has been a significant increase in the proportion of older people in the population of 20% the poorest Poles. During these three years, the proportion of people over the age of 65 who are the least affluent part of the population increased by 6 percentage points - from 12% up to 18%. Growing food prices, rising energy prices (Dawn) and increasing purchasing power - let's call it by name - starving pensions - these are the real problems of Polish pensioners. It's time to deal with real problems.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u532	Thank you, Member. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland. I'm also asking you to stick to the question for a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u533	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We all remember the story of the creation of open pension funds and that racket that we paid from OFE contributions. At the time, it was 10%. the amount of the contribution. How long it took to fight to reduce these contributions and then realize that paying open pension funds also generates public debt. It was the basis of, among other things. a change that one of my fellow Members from Law and Justice spoke about. It wasn't. It's a cashier's fee. It was a realization of what was working at the time, which caused huge, growing debt. Therefore, we believe that if this change is to be introduced, it should result, as Mr Protasiewicz said, in the possibility of transferring this money to individual accounts in the Social Security Office - without charge and with the possibility of inheritance. That would actually be an expression of a sincere intention towards all those who have money in open pension funds. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That would be fair and would not be a particular racket on the part of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u534	Thank you, sir. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u535	High Izbo! June and July, two months, and this year, this is the decision box, when almost 15,5 million members of OFE, 15,5 million Poles will consciously decide whether to be cut to 15% and do nothing, because then their resources will go to the IKE or move them to the ZUS. Ladies and gentlemen! In this bill, you assume that a large proportion of these people, and so millions, do not remember what OFE is in, and you have to ask that question, will be asked by the Social Security Office. Also, ladies and gentlemen, you know that most people just don't know how much money they have at the OFE. The point is that people can consciously decide about several thousand zlotys on average - whether to pay or (The bell) to move them to the ZUS. How do you imagine this operation is going to work? Which one of you called the ZUS hotline last time? Thank you, sir. If you called, you wouldn't have hair on your head because you can rip it off. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u536	Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u537	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Why do you want to deprive Poles of 15% Their savings? Why do you want to deprive you of the right to inherit these funds? How would you like to convince the public of the employee's capital plans, since you are destroying trust, not the PiS, because the PiS is today, and tomorrow it will not be, you are destroying your trust in the Polish state? Please answer these two questions: Why are you stealing 15% savings, and why do you deprive him of his inheritance? Please answer these questions also in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u538	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u539	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We don't have a lot of confidence in how you spend public money. In fact, on this operation the government wants to raise nearly 20 billion PLN - 20 billion PLN, which will go to the state budget. But future pensioners will lose no matter what decision they make. You're saying that this tax would still pay the pensioner in the future. But we don't know what taxes will be in the future. The government should share taxes with local governments. This division isn't here. Finally, income tax is paid on income, which is when we receive money in the form of a salary or pension, not 10, 20 years earlier. And the issue of inheritance, which has been repeatedly raised. This is particularly important for women - for women who usually live longer and after their husband's death their material situation gets much worse. PiS is taking away their chance at money from their husband. This is a very important thing. We call for a change [[♪ The bell ♪]] in this respect. Thank you very much. These measures must be inherited. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u540	Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u541	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My constituents told me to categorically oppose any possessing of the taxpayers' own resources which had previously been guaranteed as inviolable measures to be subject to the right of inheritance and to guarantee their solvency. This applies both to the private property heist made during the time of the PO government and to the remaining money made by the PiS government. This time, the PiS government has made an exceptional effort to justify its jump, calling the acquisition of property a handling fee. Is this the way it's supposed to be? Will there be an inheritance of these funds? Can future pensioners hope to receive their own money? I'd like a written reply. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u542	Thank you, sir. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u543	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The money in OFE has 15 million Poles. That's almost 40%. citizens of our country. That's 40%. For the first time, the residents paid their taxes when they made money. Then they decided to retire some of them at OFE. Today you make them choose: either you transfer your money to the ZUS, or they stay in the IKE, which is OFE. And if these 15 million Poles choose IKE, they will be forced to pay a second tax, which is your transformation fee - 15% . The money already paid twice will be able to be paid before the retirement age is reached and the tax will be paid for the third time - 19% Belka's tax. Three taxes on the same money. And now thanks to this tax you will gain in 2021 12 billion, in 2022 15 billion, but in fact you will steal it from Poles. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have one question: Isn't it just embarrassing at this time of crisis and pandemic? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u544	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u545	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The Demographic Reserve Fund should guarantee the social security of pensioners. However, the proposed order to manage funds of this fund is a great threat to the company of investment funds dependent on the Polish Development Fund. First, due to the high management costs and second, due to the effectiveness of the management of the Polish Development Fund. This is a threat to the security of these measures. I ask: Why do the government and then the Members of the PIS take such harmful decisions for Poles? This is the second jackpot in this bill, ladies and gentlemen. And pay attention to that. And second question: Will the funds transferred to the IKE be covered [[♪ The bell ♪]] protection against execution? People are afraid of it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u546	Thank you. Mr Michał Grammar, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u547	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister Buda, presenting this bill, made me laugh 100 times, presenting this terrible bill with a series of quotes from Prime Minister Tusk. Then listen to the quotes. You try to enter private companies with a baseball bat, shouting out loud: give back the money, give back the deposits of Poles. There can't be consent to such a case. Patrick Jak. What the government coalition wants to push, ruins citizens' confidence in the state, denies common sense, benefits only the rulers. Jarosław Gowin. What's the insurance gonna get on that shift? In my opinion, those who move to the U.S.S.A. will gain nothing. Beata Mazurek. And finally, an exotic but very smart tercet consisting of Mr Mark Asta, my student Waldemar Andzel and Mrs Paluch: Are these 2 years of comfort in ruling and making water out of the brain for Poles worth it? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u548	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition. There isn't? Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u549	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This law is an act on embezzlement of funds in open pension funds. We made a motion for rejection, but also a number of amendments to fix this bill, although it must be said that it cannot be fixed, it should be found in the trash can of history. Let me remind you that embezzlement is a financial crime involving the possession of the property entrusted to you. Citizens entrusted the Polish government with property in the form of pension funds and today this government, brazenly using its capabilities, steals this money, taking 15% if left in the IKE and all pensions in respect of inheritance in case of transfer to the ZUS. You're especially stealing from 40-year-olds. 51% The capital raised in OFE is the money of people born in the 1970s. They also lose 50-year-olds and 30-year-olds, especially women, women who already have lower (Ringing) states of retirement accounts. Thank you. You take an extra 15%. . Thank you very much, sir. Mr... There's nothing to ask, this bad project has to be rejected and thrown into the trash can of history. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u550	But, sir, thank you. Mr. President. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u551	Mr Kaczyński, President of the Committee. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! How can citizens and citizens believe that in this country it is possible to create reforms designed for years, that it is not only the ad hoc political interest and electoral bribery that matters, since one of the four major reforms from 20 years ago has been destroyed step by step? I have no doubt that it was and is people's money, and the best proof of that is that my family and I got money from OFE from my dead dad because we inherited it. So what? Did we get the wrong money? I have a grudge against all the governing teams, the Platform, the PSL, and now you, the PiS. Final destruction by you OFE and taking another 15% The racket - because you no longer know where to get your hand - makes citizens afraid to give up on any new fund, because they already know that in time Someone's gonna get their money again, and they're gonna get their money. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They'll be left with nothing. Let's be ashamed, politicians and politicians. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u552	Thank you. Mrs Hennig-Kloska as a substitute. You're welcome. Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u553	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! One more key question. Since the beginning of the debate on OFE, you have assured all of us here in the Chamber, but also all citizens, that money once handed over to citizens will never be taken away from them again, and today 15% paid. It's the money that was collected in place of the tax. That is why in this law we have a rather curiosable provision in this context concerning professional pensions, among others. farmers and teachers who say that, note, if a person decides to retire, their pension savings will go back from IKE to the Social Security Office, so they will be relegated by the state and, little of that, will be taxed according to the pension tax system? Can you explain this to us, Minister, how is it in this context that you are talking about the entire bill, throwing out all the phrases you have (the bell) to say that you are giving this money to citizens?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u554	Thank you. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u555	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Polish people and Poles! The OFE Act is a jump on your money. The government wants to rob 15%. pension savings of Poles and Poles, using it as a transformation fee, as a tax substitute, and this is a leap to more than 20 billion PLN. A government mercilessly like a banker in a bank wants to take a commission from your savings, but what's to be surprised if this government is headed by a banker? This bill is anti-social, anti-national. We won't support him. Shame on you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u556	Mrs Monika Rosa, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u557	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is an instruction on how to steal from Poles and Poles, [[Applause]] 'Cause whatever you choose, you're gonna lose, or 15%. Or the right to inherit. And they're all gonna lose, but they're gonna lose women the most. Women who already have an average of PLN 1000 lower pension than men today. Women who have more than a dozen percent less retirement accounts than men. And these women, you say, "We're taking 15% away from you." Or we take away your right to inherit when your spouse dies. Because men live less than women. And then they won't get the money. They won't get a pension account, they won't get the money in hand. It's already over 300,000. pensioners receive a retirement pension under 1200 zł. Today, the pensioner receives an average of 50% his last salary. In 20 years, when the 40-year-olds retire, that's only 30% of their last salary. My generation must save up for retirement not to live a decent life, but to live a life at all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u558	Thank you. Mr Adam Szłapka, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u559	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Government of Law and Justice steals money from Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u560	Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u561	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Since we have a government representative responsible for this bill, I would like to ask the Minister three questions. First of all, why was the possibility of giving Poles the transfer of funds from OFE not only to IKE, an individual pension account, but also to an individual account, an individual pension security account, so-called. IKZE, which can be deducted from income tax. Secondly, why no inheritance of funds collected in an individual ZUS account is introduced if it was decided to transfer funds from OFE to this individual ZUS account. Finally, the third horizontal question, what is the comprehensive idea of the PiS government of what to do with already four times the number of pensioners than when you embraced governments who take pensions smaller than the lowest. Yes, four times as many pensioners receive money below the minimum pension in relation to this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] to the number that was when you embraced governments in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u562	Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u563	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Art. 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland states that the Republic of Poland is a democratic legal state implementing the principles of social justice. The question arises: Is PiS-owska principle of social justice the 15 percent charity imposed on decisions, i.e. on savings of Poles? Is that what a democratic legal state is supposed to be about, which consciously takes 15% of its citizens? the chances and hopes of a higher retirement when the retirement age is reached? Because this fee is nothing more than a reduction in today's accumulated capital so that this capital works when you retire. This solution also raises these constitutional doubts. That's why I wanted to ask you what's the difference between this economy that the government has. [[♪ The bell ♪]] proposes in ZUS, from the one on individual pension accounts. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u564	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Urbaniak, Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u565	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2013, PLN 152 billion went from OFE to ZUS, i.e. de facto back to the budget. Less than a decade later, 19.3 billion are collected to re-eat this money through the state budget. I think that Poles have lost any sense of stability and belief that our country, our common state, is able to pay them in the future without perturbing, without waving their hands. Today's generation of people of working age is in fact doomed to take care of themselves. It is clear that, in the event of a demographic disaster, the pay-as-you-go system can be terminated sooner or later. This, on the other hand, needs to be properly prepared. We have been talking about civic retirement for a long time, and we have been talking (The Bell) about the fact that Poles should prepare themselves. Plus, we have some amendments I'm asking you to accept. Thank you, sir. Okay, you're at the question point. The question is asked by Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050. But the second reading isn't over yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u566	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'm quick with three important questions. First of all, I have this question: What is the legal basis of these 15% ? I mean, it's taking acquired rights, and now we'd like to know on what legal basis this is happening. The second question that Poland 2050 has on this issue: Why is it 15% , not e.g. 13% Or let's not regret 30%. ? After all, the fact that you're cutting people's own savings, their own pensions by such a huge amount, must have some reason why it's 15%. ? But the most important question for me is this: Why do you tell people that they can carry the 15%? costs and then they won't pay the pension tax? On the other hand, we know from the press reports that in the new deal you will promise that pensions of up to 2.5 thousand. zł, i.e. the lowest ones, and I suspect that few of us will have (the bell) higher pensions, will be tax-free. Thank you, Member. So you're telling people that they're going to have pensions without tax, and then you're actually promising all future pensioners a pension without tax. Thank you, Member. Does that make sense? There's no point.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u567	Thank you, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy of Minister Waldemar Buda to answer these questions. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u568	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! We've been discussing this bill for a long time, and everyone's right, but there are facts aside. And the facts are such, ladies and gentlemen, that this law is indeed an attempt to restore confidence in a country which was very heavily overcrowded in 2013 and 2014 when without any consent of Poles, without any discussion, 152 billion PLN was taken without any right of choice. Today, all those people who voted in favour of it, because most of them are the same parliamentarians, they come out on this floor and say that today there is harm. What are we proposing today, ladies and gentlemen? We give the right to choose: those who wish to obtain the funds which will become private for them as of 28 January 2022, which is very soon, and those who want to move to the Social Insurance Institution and transfer the funds to their pension accounts in the Social Insurance Institution. This is a fair case-making, these measures from the outset, in the assumption of reform, were conceived as private measures and such private measures should remain. Today, we are fulfilling a commitment that the state has failed to fulfil by voting in favour of the law and creating an OFE. We want to avoid this situation in the future, ladies and gentlemen. I'll put something on to remind you. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Waldemar Buda plays the recording from the tablet: Money which is in OFE is not owned by Poles. It is precisely this, ladies and gentlemen, that the funds that are collected at OFE should finally become the means of Poles. So far it has not been possible, you have taken half and, I believe, they would have taken another one in the future. You are asking why 15% . That's why there shouldn't be more later. [[Joy in the Chamber]] If no reform were to be carried out today, these measures are taxed 17% and 32% I mean, if we hadn't introduced this law at all, that fee would have been clearly higher. And you're asking why 15% . 'Cause you just can't get any lower. These funds come from social security contributions, pension contributions. Therefore, for those who leave funds in the IKE and those who move it to the ZUS, this situation must be similar. Therefore, the maximum fee that can be paid in this case is 15% . How do you know, Minister, what tax rates will be in ten years? Ladies and gentlemen! Assuming, given the abilities of our predecessors, I think they can only be higher, hence this assumption. Ladies and gentlemen! We guarantee one more thing, those funds that will be transferred to the IKE will never be able to be taken as before. We write down exactly what you did in 2014, i.e. the funds are not returned to the Treasury. That's the rule we can invoke, we'll make sure you never do it. Ladies and gentlemen! From January 28th and the election will be between June 1st and August 2nd, there will be the right to use your own funds, to obtain your own funds, on average 10 thousand. zł. What does that have to do with anything? Except that these measures become private on 28 January and we will be able to pay them in full even after the retirement age has been reached. Today, when funds are transferred to the Social Security Office, there is no such possibility. Moreover, these measures are not hereditary today, both in the account and in the sub-account. It is a great lie to say that the funds on the sub-account are hereditary - absolutely not hereditary. At a time when mortality is the highest, i.e. after reaching retirement age, this inheritance is excluded from the law and the state has so recorded heredity and today they speak of such heredity. And the IKE measures will be fully hereditary both before the retirement age and after the retirement age. But what is important - life situations are very different, and often there is a situation that, after retirement, we expect all funds to be paid, completely immediately, the day after the retirement age is reached. Today, this system won't allow it. There are situations of own illness, family, family member, there are situations where you need help from a family member. This will be the moment when you can take advantage of these measures, because they are private. It is a Pole, each individual will decide what to do with these measures. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u569	Thank you very much. The rapporteur also submitted a request for an answer to the question. You're welcome, sir. Mr Henryk Kowalczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u570	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I expected such a discussion, which did not have much in common with the substance, since only words are used: embezzlement, stealing, stealing, insolence, etc. It is a pity that this is said by the representatives of the Civic Platform, who a few years ago - due to a rather prosaic, one can say because the public debt reached almost 60% - in order not to break the constitutional threshold of public debt, they took PLN 150 billion from OFE, they cut it off. Of course, that's not what it was called -- bond redemption. So please really hold back in these discussions. The fact that OFE was wrong, I completely agree with Mr Zandberg. I'm at that age that I had a choice whether to join the OFE or not. I was lucky. Knowing the OFE rules, I didn't join the OFE, nor did I let my wife. It's clear. This is the closure of the reform of this system and that is what we should expect. This discussion also makes no sense: you take away, you, i.e. PiS, etc. You're gonna buy a limousine out of this budget. It really is an absolute misunderstanding of the state budget, because the state budget is also a parliamentary allowance, it's a waste, because it's a lousy one, but it's a parliamentary one. This is also from the state budget, not to mention, of course, expenditure such as 500+, which is extremely important, which eliminates social poverty. One more element, I think, is important in this discussion, but it is worth correcting it a little bit. Turns out the retirees have been poor for years. I would just like to remind you that the minimum pension, because we are only talking about such pensioners who receive a minimum pension, called by some people who are hungry, was PLN 636 in 2008, is a gross amount, in 2015.880 PLN. So for seven years, there's been a 38% increase in retirement. Under the rule of law and justice in 2021, the minimum amount amounted to PLN 1250, so this is an increase of 42% only in this element. But let's add 13 pensions and 14 pensions to those who receive the least - this is the annual amount spread over months. This is another 200 zlotys, so this is a minimum pension of an average of 1440 zlotys, i.e. we get an increase of more than 60%. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mr President, what is the number of people receiving below the minimum? I know it may not be enough, but if we compare a growth rate of 42% over 7 years, nominal pensions and an increase of more than 60% pensions during the rule of law and justice for six years, I think that the charge of not seeing the problems of retirement is completely unfounded. So I would like to encourage a substantive discussion, not a demagogic discussion, both in the plenary room and at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social Policy and the Family, because I understand that after so many amendments have been tabled, this bill will probably go back to these committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u571	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. Objection! Objection. I'm asking that this project also hit... We will therefore vote in the voting block. I understand that the Member also makes a formal proposal, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u572	Yes, I'm also filing a formal motion, Your Marshal. In accordance with Article 2, the following paragraph is added: Paragraph 184. 3 point 8 calls for a change in the way in which discussions are conducted on this item on the agenda for this draft law. The discussion has already been closed. At the committee meeting, Minister Buda regularly lied. He lied about the availability of materials on KNF websites, he lied about the amount of capital, he did not provide the committee with details that affect the perception of how Members perceive this project. All I can say is that from the data provided by the government, we know that on average the Pole has about 10,000. zł in OFE. Meanwhile, it turns out that e.g. The average for 40-year-olds is 15,000. And that the 40-year-olds raised 51% of their capital. It turns out that 40-year-old women have 55% of the capital in the OFE, and it is the 40-year-old women who will be most affected by this project. 50-year-old men and 40-year-old men (The Bell) are the next groups. Thank you, sir. I therefore ask that your marshal be kind to ensure that the ministers... Thank you, sir, time is up. ...who took part in committee meetings, they didn't lie. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u573	Mr President, the proposal is pointless because we have already concluded the discussion at this point. I'm translating the objection. Objection, I understand. We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law on the protection of the rights of the buyer of the dwelling or single-family house and on the Developer's Guarantee Fund (prints No. 985 and 1066). I would like to ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u574	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I have the honour to present a report on the Government's draft law on the protection of the rights of the buyer of a dwelling or a single-family house and on the Developer's Guarantee Fund. This draft law was the subject of intensive work first in the extraordinary subcommittee set up for this purpose, which worked on it on 17 and 18 March and then in the Infrastructure Committee on 30 March, which adopted the report presented here by 28 votes in favour with one vote against and two abstentions. During the work, the Infrastructure Commission considered the amendments tabled, including a package of 12 amendments resulting from the comments of the Legislative Bureau, which however required deeper analysis and reflection and could therefore not be introduced at the stage of the subcommittee's work. Amendment 1 of this package to Article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 adapts the entry to the current wording of the Restructuring Law. Amendment 2 amending Article. 17, Art. 26, Art. 34 and Article 34 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the I would remind you that construction works may begin on the basis of a building permit, as well as by a construction notification against which the authority has not objected, as referred to in Article. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 1 of the Act - Construction Law. In turn, the works are completed either after the decision on the permit to use the building or after the notice of completion of the construction, against which the building supervisory authority did not object. These changes have been made to the articles I mentioned. Amendment 3. to Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 completes the buyer's list of claims disclosed in the perpetual ledger with the content corresponding to the provision of the article. 2 (2) Point 1 (4). This is about building land real estate and transferring property to the buyer. This amendment is accompanied by amendment 10 supplementing this precisely mentioned claim of the catalogue contained in the article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 laws on perpetual books and mortgage. Amendments 4 and 5 align the provisions of this draft with the Act - Bankruptcy Law as well as Amendments 6, 7 and 8. Amendment 11, in turn, amends Article. 73 a project containing transitional provisions in such a way that the development contracts concluded within 2 years from the date of entry into force of the Act in question, if the start of the sale by the developer took place before the date of its entry into force and after 2 years no transfer of ownership, can apply the existing provisions. Amendment 12 covers the entire annex to the Act. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission also considered a package of 15 amendments tabled by the Coalition Polska - PSL, ED, Conservatives. The first three of these amendments are deleted in Article. 2 (2) 2, delete Article. 3 and deletion of Article. 4 were, in fact, intended to allow for further application of a restrictive interpretation from the scope of this law, which would clearly reduce the protection of buyers. These amendments, as well as all others, did not contain legislative consequences. They were rejected by a large majority in committee. Amendments 4 and 5. the package removed the obligation to conclude a residential trust account contract at the start of the sale by the developer, which would clearly reduce the level of protection of the buyer. Adoption of Amendment 6, which is to delete paragraph 6. Article 2 16, would maintain a very unfavourable legal situation for the purchaser in which he may lose and invest money and acquire a dwelling or a house, for in his mouth. 2 The condition is that the bank pays to the developer the funds remaining in the open trust account after receiving the discharge of the notarial act of the transfer agreement. Another of the amendments proposed by the Polish Coalition is the deletion of Chapter 5 on booking contracts - so far there have been no rules governing this sphere at all - the deletion of Chapter 8 on the creation of a Developing Guarantee Fund - is a very important issue to safeguard the interests of buyers - and the deletion in Article. Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 8, i.e. the possibility for the buyer to remove defects at the expense of the developer if he does not remove them within the prescribed time limit, which clearly strengthens the buyer's position in enforcing the proper quality of the purchased premises or house. These amendments were rejected by the Infrastructure Commission (The Bell) because they obviously weakened the buyer's position. High Izbo! There is no more time, so on behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I ask that the Government draft law on the protection of the rights of the buyer of the dwelling or single-family house and of the Developer Guarantee Fund contained in the report of the printing commission No 1066 be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u575	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, will be presented to the High House by Mrs Anna Paluch. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u576	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! The starting point for the preparation of the bill discussed here was the law adopted on 16 September 2011, with which both the buyers of dwellings or single-family houses, as well as those involved in the preparation and adoption of the bill, had high hopes. However, it turned out that it was quite easy to circumvent the new rules and avoid applying them with obvious damage to the buyer. Clarify the provisions, starting with the scope of this law in Article. 1, 2, 3 and 4, introducing new regulations such as booking agreements, new information obligations, i.e. the obligation to deliver the information prospectus to the purchaser, and to clarify the provisions on the booking fee and the conditions for its reimbursement - I would remind you that it will not be able to exceed 1% the price of the premises or house given in the information prospectus - all this serves to protect the interests of the buyer. The provisions on the development agreement have been clarified and harmonised. The subject matter of this agreement may be the transfer of ownership of a residential establishment, a family house or a commercial establishment purchased with it. The developer may also conclude agreements with the buyer referred to in Article. 2 (2) Points 1, 2, 3 and 5, together with contracts the object of which is ownership or a fraction of the ownership of the commercial premises. The claims arising from these agreements shall be entered in the perpetual book. The new rules extend the scope of the grounds for withdrawal from the development contract or one of the other agreements concluded with the buyer concerning the transfer of ownership. Clearly, there is a strengthening of the position of the buyer of the premises or of the house. A completely new solution is the Developer Guarantee Fund. Regardless of the type of measures taken to protect the buyer's payments - whether we are talking about a closed residential trust account or an open residential trust account - the developer will be obliged to pay contributions to the Developer Guarantee Fund. The Developer Guarantee Fund is a separate account with the Insurance Guarantee Fund. The guarantee of payment is covered by all contract of the developer with the buyer. The DFG guarantee will also be triggered in the event of bankruptcy of the bank holding the residential trust account and therefore the buyer's funds paid into the residential trust account will be 100% protected. The proposed amount of the DFG contribution is 2% for open housing accounts and 0,2% for closed accounts. High Izbo! So far, the buyer of the premises did not have sufficient instruments to enable him to enforce from the developer a faulty premises of good quality, e.g. by refusing to accept the premises, where it has significant disadvantages, and for not removing the defects included in the reception protocol, no sanctions were encountered by the developer. This project contains provisions that clarify the acceptance procedure, which allow for the possibility of refusing to receive the defective premises and introducing an obligation to remove defects within the prescribed time limits. However, the law should strike a balance between the burdens, rights and obligations of both parties to the agreement. It is not appropriate to say that one party to the contract, in this case the developer, bears the costs of expertise even in case of non-confirmation of a material defect. Hence the amendment to the article. Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 16 giving a new sound to this paragraph. In accordance with the 1st amendment of the package of amendments I submit on behalf of the club, paragraph. 16 will read as follows: In the event that the construction assessor has not established the existence of a material defect, the costs of the construction assessor's opinion shall be borne entirely by the purchaser. High Izbo! The matter has been discussed several times: and at the subcommittee meeting, and at the committee meeting. Therefore, as announced, we are making an amendment. She argued to the public that there was no justification for charging the developer with the costs of an expert's opinion when the assessor found no significant defect. It is not justified to charge only one party, in each case - either in whole or in part, as so far as it is in the provisions of the project - the cost of the opinion is borne by the developer. The adoption of this amendment will also clearly serve to eliminate cases of possible abuse by purchasers of their subjective rights and to raise unjustified allegations in the course of receipt, and I believe that the ratio legis of this law will not be affected. High Izbo! There is very little time, I will no longer talk about the rest of the amendments, but I would like to say and stress, ending my speech, that meeting housing needs is a very important social problem. Although housing supply is increasing, and mostly (the bell) thanks to the market sector, we should, as a responsible public authority, do everything we can to ensure that these apartments are of the right quality and bear the least risk from all the players involved in this process. Thank you very much, Member. Therefore, I would like to express my surprise, even outrage at attempts to throw away solutions for the security of buyers from this bill. We will clearly oppose such trials. On the other hand, on behalf of my club, I declare that, of course, we will support the bill. I'm making amends, Marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u577	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will address Ms Krystyna Sibińska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u578	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The safety of the buyer of an apartment or a house must be a priority for the state, of course. That is why we have introduced trust accounts as a government of the Civic Platform and PSL to prevent hundreds of dramas. Since the entry into force of the development law, more than 0.5 million transactions have been carried out in open trust accounts. Industry organisations - and here our data differ from the data presented by the government, which in my opinion reports the bankruptcy of companies in the construction industry not necessarily operating under the provisions of the development law - found only three cases of bankruptcy of developers who used open trust accounts. Three companies. With these three companies, customers of two companies on the basis of our regulations have already received their apartments without payment. In the case of the last company, customers will also receive compensation. We made a good instrument. Today we're talking about the Developer Guarantee Fund. While we want to continue to act in the interests of buyers, we generally accept these proposals, but there are also doubts about the scale and actual allocation of the funds to the DFG. If the demand for potential bankruptcy is estimated at PLN 140 million and this is due to the justification of the project, what purpose is the collection of nearly PLN 1 billion? It is clear that these charges will, colloquially speaking, be passed on to the buyers of the apartments, i.e. by gulping, one might say that this law has a different purpose. He wants to collect PLN 1 billion a year tax on Polish families, whose real purpose - because as I said, needs are at the level of PLN 140 million - is unknown. I have very limited confidence in the current power when it comes to reaching into public money. That is why I am making amendments limiting the fervor of the current government and reducing the amount of contributions. The other amendments are designed to strike a balance between the parties in the legislation. The safety of buyers will be ensured by trust accounts together with the Developer Guarantee Fund. But we must also bear in mind entrepreneurs who, in a pandemic age, maintain jobs and contribute to GDP. I have the impression that some of the proposed legislation is supposed to be revenge on private entrepreneurs who have been able to build 0.5 million apartments in the last 5 years, while PiS did not even build 5,000 apartments at the same time, despite the whole state apparatus, various projects, changes in regulations, etc.. apartments. In my view, some of the rules favour banks and increase their control powers. Launching the DFG will increase the number of transactions, i.e. improve the financial performance of banks without additional costs, and let me remind you that the development fund also aims to secure possible bank failures. Does this privileged position of banks stem from the Bankster roots of Prime Minister Morawiecki? The answer to the question is left to you. In conclusion, we support the changes as a continuation of our good legislation, but we propose amendments that civilise these changes, such as the balance between the parties, the limitation of a little control of banks, but also the provisions that specify, for example. I very much need a recipe that eliminates a pathodeveloper, which means that it will prevent the residence of commercial premises which were not named in this proposal, and we complete this provision. I'm making amends. We will support the whole project. On the other hand, I believe that our amendments are very sensible, strike a balance and safeguard all parties. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u579	Thank you very much, Member. The position of the parliamentary club Left will be presented to the High House by Maciej Gdula. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u580	Good evening. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Director! High Izbo! A good policy is a policy that prepares you for a time of crisis, for a time worse, for a time when citizens are at risk. The fact that the rulers didn't fulfill this task is what we find today, during the pandemic, when we have ventilators, but we don't have doctors who would be able to operate these ventilators. This law shows that there is a possible policy that provides protection for a time worse, for a time of crisis. The Left will support this bill because he considers it a good solution. The main assumption of this law is the creation of a Developer Guarantee Fund. This is a solution that protects consumers, and protects companies. This is an important solution that regulates the market. First of all, I welcome the fact that the weaker participants in the housing purchase process, consumers, are protected. It's been said that the developer didn't fall for a long time. But just because there hasn't been a big fall in the last eight to nine years doesn't mean there won't be one. In a situation where such bankruptcy occurs, consumers are in a terrible situation and this law guarantees their safety. The second important thing is that smaller developers are also strengthened, because if the transaction is safer, then it is easier for consumers to decide to buy from a smaller developer, which in theory could be more vulnerable to market turmoil, to bankruptcy. So in this respect, too, when it comes to the balance between developers, this is a good bill. We're making adjustments. They also concern consumers and access to information. We want more information on parking spaces, parking spaces for bicycles, greenery in the prospectus. These are important things. And we also make an amendment on the amount of the contribution. This is a rather important issue also related to consumers and their burden. The question is whether a 2% contribution - theoretically possible, although the legislator reserves that it will now be 1% as regards the burden on the transaction, but theoretically the law allows for an increase of this burden to 2% - it is also not an introduction of the possibility to pass more costs on to consumers. We think that 1.5% of contributions would be a good solution, which leaves some flexibility, but does not introduce the possibility of a large increase in the burden on developers and consumers. So we want to propose this amendment to the High House. We think it's going. In the right direction. And to conclude, I'd like to say one thing. I have talked a lot about consumers and their protection here, but I would like to say that in order for people in Poland to have a better, better choice, they should also have a choice in this respect, so that they do not have to take loans for housing and not have to buy them. [[Applause]] We need a good bill, a good social housing program for rent. The fact that we protect consumers is good, but not everyone has to be the consumer of credit, the client of the bank. Good, available, cheap apartments for rent is something that we should give Poland also to develop so that people feel safe to have more options. It's a solution for freedom, it's not some kind of... I mean. This shows that solutions that are somewhat socialistic are actually solutions that support freedom and choice. Thank you very much, and I'm handing over your Marshal of Corrections. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u581	Thank you very much, thank you, sir. Mr Jacek Tomczak, Coalition Poland. You're welcome. Remotely. Ah, remotely, that's right. Do we have a call? We do. You're welcome, sir. We can't hear you, sir. That's as far as we can hear. There's no sound, sir. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u582	Can you hear the sound now? Hello! Oh, now we've got you. You're welcome. I don't know, I don't know why, but there's no sound. Mr President, speak up, perhaps closer. Hello, hello! Yes, you're welcome. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u583	You're welcome, sir. Mr President, you have the floor. Do we still have a problem? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Well, then, if I may, Mr Dariusz Klimczak and then your colleague.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u584	I'm gonna get started, 'cause I'm probably gonna have some communication coming up. Yes, sir, I think so. You're welcome, sir. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm sure there'll be communication with Mr Tomczak soon. I would also like to present on behalf of the Polish Coalition Club the amendments that Mr Jacek Tomczak has just prepared. A commentary, on the other hand. According to Polish entrepreneurs from the construction industry, whose opinions I read, whose opinions I listened to, this project is completely unnecessary. Existing legislation, which has been created, among others. by the coalition of the previous government, they sufficiently safeguard the rights of all those who acquire the premises referred to in that law. So I asked them what the bill was for. They told me clearly: the government, which needs money, sees how dynamic this industry is developing, how Poles are willing to buy and place their capital in apartments, in homes, and it comes to the conclusion that it is worth bringing some money to the budget. That's why a new development fund was invented. That is why in our amendments we propose a number of solutions, including. One that, I think, is most interesting. Anyone who's going to buy an apartment now will buy it more expensive, because let's not delusionalize, I'm sure this cost will be transferred to a customer. So it is important to make sure that all those who have to put more money out of their pocket know who makes it so. This fund is called the Developer Guarantee Fund. It's kind of weird, because all the PiS funds we've got so far, they're called national funds to be associated with the PiS. So we propose that this fund should also be called a national guarantee fund, so that everyone who buys an apartment more expensive knows it's because of Law and Justice. I give the floor to Mr Tomczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u585	Thank you very much. Do we have a link to your envoy? Do we have a call? We don't have a connection. In that case, I invite Mr Jakub Kulesza, the Wheel of the Polish Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u586	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! Director! I have a question for Members of Law and Justice. You guys having fun? You guys are having some kind of competition here, some kind of fun to come up with newer and dumber forms of taxation. Because that's what this bill is. Sleep. Stefan Kisielewski said that socialism is a system in which problems unknown in no other system are overcome heroically. It's not socialism, it's bureaucracy, it's a system in which institutions are heroically formed that are not needed in any other system. And even in this system, this institution is completely redundant. Let's see what you're offering us. You are suggesting that every year you will take away the citizens who want to buy the apartment, about PLN 1.5 billion, of which you will spend 12 million on the IT system. The annual cost of employment, the maintenance of the service will be 10 million, it is about resources for officials. According to experts, this will increase housing prices by up to 5%. Because besides this tax, the racket you're charging will also be the cost of service, the cost of maintaining trust accounts, which is also related to the premises that have already been created, but have not yet been sold. It is also a question of the cost of covering commercial premises, parking spaces in underground garages or residential cells. What do you offer in return? You offer mythical security, security. So let's see: for nine years since the development law was introduced, only two investors have gone bankrupt: one forged the building documentation - the syndicate transferred the property here to the buyers, so no one was injured - and the other missed the development bill. The buyers were injured in the case of one developer. At the same time, for 9 years, 500,000 were created. apartments. Imagine that you want to impose a 5% tax on these apartments. It's also a legal bullshit. We're gonna run out of flats free of charge. That's the kind of withdrawal I've been taking. You can't do that anymore. What's more, even if someone leaves the apartment, this apartment will be subject to a double tax. Moreover, also ready-made apartments, where there is no risk that they will not be built because they are already built, will be covered by this fee. Why are you doing this? This is your money box, a money bank of politicians, which you will use for your own electoral purposes. This was the case with the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities, which you spent on 13 or 14 pensions to bribe pensioners. That's what happened with the Demographic Reserve Fund, which you've also used, and that's how it is with open pension funds. And that's what the Platform did, and that's what you guys do. And that's exactly what's gonna happen. Officials in the meantime for our taxpayers, the money will have a good time, and when the time comes, you'll buy some of the voters for the rest of the money. Thank you very much. This bill is good for basketball. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u587	Mr Jacek Tomczak, remotely. You're welcome. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u588	Good morning. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We approach the second reading of the government draft law on the protection of the rights of the buyer of a dwelling or a single-family house and on the Developer's Guarantee Fund. In addition to the fact that it has a good title and equally good assumptions, the bill presents a number of threats to the housing market, which today is responsible for the construction of as much as 13%. Polish GDP. The real intention of this law is to establish a Developer Guarantee Fund which, through the system of non-refundable contributions, introduces a levy for Polish families in the form of excise duties on the acquisition of housing on the primary market of up to 2% of the value of this apartment, which will cause the Polish families to receive about PLN 1 billion per year. It's not the only cost that this bill will generate. It will also increase the cost of building housing. The Chambers of Commerce estimate that the institutions that provide for this law will increase the cost of building housing by around 4 and 5%. Can Polish families afford such increases? I think that in a time of pandemic, when Polish families are just trying to acquire premises with additional rooms, balconies, a better standard... Polish families do not need an increase in costs on this scale. Has anyone ever asked consumers, Poles, whether they want the institutions that this law provides for? Of course not. We could easily check whether consumers are interested in such legislation. It would be enough to introduce the voluntary use of this law. And it would turn out that in Poland nobody is interested in it, that nobody wants to use it. It's worth emphasising one thing. Why would a fund like this be created? Of course, one of the main goals is simply political, it is about creating a megafund, where a few billion zlotys drawn from Polish families will be gathered and which will end only for electoral purposes. But on the way, he can also serve the Objteks, bureaucrats, other socialists, officials who will be able to put their families there. That is why we would like this fund to be called what the PiS likes to call all national institutions. Let it be a national guarantee fund. This bill will not improve the fate of Polish consumers. She's gonna make him worse. The development law has been in operation in Poland for 10 years. It's been passed, reminding you, by the Platform and PSL government. The institutions provided for in these provisions really protect Poles in a sufficient way today. This law will reduce competition in the housing market. This will impact mainly on smaller entrepreneurs, who will simply fall out of the system and stop providing cheap apartments for Polish families. We therefore apply for the rejection of the law at second reading.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u589	Thank you very much. Now Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Confederation. There's still some time left, but not much. How much? One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u590	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The idea of this law, i.e. the protection of those who want to buy apartments, seems grand, but, as the debate shows, the execution raises a lot of doubts and I would not ignore them. I'd split two lines. The first is a compulsory contribution, which is proposed here, with a dangerous, significant amount that will affect the price of the apartment. High housing prices are already one of the main problems of the housing market and an additional boost, while these prices have been rising in recent months, we do not need it. The second issue is insurance against possible bankruptcy of the developer or other threats. I think the government would really show up on the right side if it offered insurance, but it took on its costs, it would consider them budgetary costs. After a year, we'd know how much money it really takes. Then you could start talking about a contribution. This is absolutely beyond the power of the government. I think that adding to the idea of insurance this premium simply puts it, moreover, does not seem fully refined. I'm paying attention to one detail. What if you withdraw from the development agreement? The Act does not provide for repayment of the payment made. In practice, this may mean that if you withdraw from the development agreement and then sign a new agreement concerning the same apartment, you will have to pay a contribution for one place twice. She wrote about it, among other things. It's a legal gazeto. We also note that this fund does not respond to the problem of hidden defects that come out after receiving the apartment. For many (the bell) recipients this is a bigger problem than the hypothetical bankruptcy of the developer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u591	Thank you very much. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u592	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like all the work in the Sejm to be done in accordance with and as substantive as the work on this law. She's just needed. Regarding the usefulness of the development fund, as Poland 2050 from the beginning we had no doubt about it and we said that we should balance this huge asymmetry between the buyer and the developer, between the client and the entity, which is often equipped with an army of lawyers and law firms. In such situations people simply very often lose their achievements, lose their chance to live, fall into huge debts that they pay back for many years. The development fund will prevent such situations, which is why we support them absolutely all the time. I was talking about it from that podium. Later, I received a beautiful letter from the Polish Association of Developers, for which I thank you very much. In the letter there were arguments about how wrong I am, how wrong I am. One sentence really grabbed me. The Polish Association of Developers wrote that the example I quoted - I used an example of so-called. The unfortunates of the hive. Lucky in Warsaw, where the developer broke down, the bank withdrew the guarantee, and people remained with nothing, without apartments just... The Polish Association of Developers said that these people would not be covered by the fund at all. Why? Because they didn't buy apartments. They bought farmhouses, they bought apartment-like products, patodevelopers' products, i.e. apartments where you can't check in, you can't formally live and are only for rent. Of course, I checked all the press reports that I was preparing for. These people called these rooms their apartments, they said we lost our chance at our dream home, our dream piece of place in the world. Unfortunately, the practice on the market is that people very often buy just this type of commercial space, which are substandard apartments with an area of less than 25 m. We've been putting together... We discussed this on the occasion of first reading, and now we will make an amendment, which is that people who purchase such premises will be informed that these premises are not utility premises - it is simply to enter it into contracts - which, under the law, cannot be used for housing purposes, and it is also informed that they are not covered by the guarantee of this law. The proposal for an amendment met with the interest of the President of the OOKiK. I think that it could benefit all states, because it is merely about informing the future buyer of such a risk. So this is an amendment that absolutely doesn't go any way, doesn't change reality, but for buyers it can be very valuable information. The second amendment we are making is because there are often strong price fluctuations in the housing market. Now, especially at the time of Cortipinus, housing prices have gone up. And imagine that right now, for example. The situation is that someone unfortunately gets into a dispute with the developer, the apartment has flaws and the developer returns... In fact, the only option is to return the money in such a dispute if the developer doesn't overcome the disadvantages that the apartment has. Then someone stays not with the value for which they can buy the apartment, but at the moment with 2/3 of this value, because prices have increased. Therefore, we want the developer to be obliged to pay such a buyer a contractual penalty of 0,5% value of real estate for each day of delay [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the case of such a significant defect. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u593	Thank you very much. The questions have been raised by Members. As the first Mr Michał Grammar. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u594	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Art. The 23rd submission continues to state that the information prospectus is to be part of the development agreement. The standard notarial act of such a contract is between 15 and 30 pages. The information prospectus is another five pages, two, maybe three pages of floors and between 15 and 30 pages of the design of the development contract. Yes, exactly, the same contract that will then be the content of the same notarial act. If you maintain your position, the discharge from such an act will no longer have 30 pages, but 70 pages. Worst-case scenario, it threatens him by about 500 zlotys. Let us remember that three such extracts are drawn up from each development contract. The cost will, of course, be charged to the buyer. Once again, I call for a solution whereby such a contract will lose weight on unnecessary attachments (the bell), while the customer's statement is sufficient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u595	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u596	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! It is good that there is an amendment to the cost of expertise. We talked about this at the committee meeting, it was mentioned at the subcommittee meeting. The opposition took the view that it was not possible to charge the other party, in this case the costs of carrying out such an expert opinion, for an expert who was disadvantaged by one party. They should be borne by the party who carried out this expertise at its own risk. These arguments have been accepted and very well. But I want to ask you two questions. It's about equality between parties, about banks. What are the mechanisms here, Mr President, but which will make the banks not the dominant party? And the other thing. We are making an amendment to the fees for the guarantee fund. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is the government willing to consider just reducing those costs that will be very high? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u597	Thank you. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u598	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The idea of creating a Developer Guarantee Fund is a step in the right direction. However, I am concerned about the long history of working on this law, which literally from week to week became more and more mild. This is demonstrated by a significant reduction in the initially proposed contribution to be paid by developers. Granted, the project will certainly limit the power of developers over buyers. The solutions so far have not sufficiently protected thousands of citizens and citizens who choose to buy housing - one of the most important investments in life. When it turns out that this law does not fulfil its role, we will intervene and expect the government to act. Let's call things by name: We have a housing crisis in Poland. We need good cooperation between you and the private sector. According to the data, at least one million apartments are missing. House prices are rising at a rate of about 10% a year, and the quality of miniature apartments (the bell) in new anthills is a joke that has long ceased to be funny. Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. Thank you, sir. It's time to stop with the patodeveloper. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u599	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Will the changes in the development law provide greater protection for buyers or just an increase in the price of housing? Are these changes even necessary? The essence of the contract concluded with the developer is to obtain the right premises at a specified price. The element that raises the most concerns of buyers is the need to pay the price at the time when the subject matter of the contract, the premises, does not yet exist. The guarantee of a refund in the event of bankruptcy is intended to strengthen the established Developer Guarantee Fund. The new rules will undoubtedly increase the financing of the developer's own investments, increase the fixed costs and increase the risk of developing investments, it seems so. Will some of these costs and risks be passed on to buyers? What's the department's opinion on this, what's the government's opinion? Please respond in writing. Please also reply in writing (Ring): What will the actual costs of the guarantee fund be?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u600	Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u601	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The prices of apartments in Poland are high and will be even higher, also thanks to this fund, which will be introduced. On the other hand, according to all kinds of calculations and data, the money that will enter the fund will significantly exceed the needs that you are talking about in assumptions. The question is, what are you gonna do with that surplus? And after a year, will you do an evaluation if you see that 80% Did you raise too much money in this fund because there was no need? Are you going to correct this bill and lower the fees? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u602	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u603	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The very important thing about the housing market is stability and legal certainty. Such unthinkable changes, surprisingly, certainly do not serve the stability of the law. We know today - this is what many previous speakers have said - that we have a permanent deficit in terms of the number of apartments, and I fear that these changes will not serve to meet the needs of all those who report them every year. I wanted to ask you if you have any calculations, forecasts of how these changes will affect trends in the market for the creation of new apartments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u604	Thank you. The list of Members has been exhausted. And now the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, Mr Tomasz Chróstny, will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u605	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It's rare that we're dealing with a legal act that's been created in such a long time. It is the result of many reflections, many consultations, market observation for a long time, verification and consultation not only with the social side, but also with other public institutions precisely to enhance the protection of the rights of buyers of dwellings. This is extremely important from the point of view of the interests of society. It is extremely important to invest in the purchase of apartments, houses that safeguard the basic housing needs of Poles and Poles. I would like to point out why, actually, buyers should be specifically covered by this protection. First of all, we are talking about the situation when developers carry out investment projects not for their money. Not out of their capital, not out of their loans, but on the basis of the money they've been getting from the buyers of the apartments. These measures should be specifically protected also by public institutions and hence, inter alia. those laws that we are discussing today. Undoubtedly, in the relationship between the buyer of apartments, the buyer of the house on the primary market and the developer a strong, privileged party is the developer who has the advantage over the buyer. E.g. this gap is filled by these provisions. What do we have in them? We have a regulation on booking contracts. We have increased protection in case of housing defects, non-essential defects that should be repaired - if the developer does not do so, the buyer will do so at the expense of the developer - but also significant defects that would affect the functionality of the apartment and which, if the developer does not decide to fix, is the possibility to pay the funds from the DFG. Today, in this type of case, the only way the consumer has is through a long-term judicial road, which is also connected with serious costs. We have a seal on the housing trust accounts. We have increased supervision of the activities and the subsequent tranches of bank contributions. We have the creation of a Developer Guarantee Fund, which not only protects developers or buyers, protects developers in case of bankruptcy - in a moment I will refer to it - but also in case of bankruptcy of the bank, when the amount of the secured funds exceeds 100,000. the euro guaranteed by the Bank Guarantee Fund. It is also, as I mentioned, a significant defect or a situation where we are to stop the construction site for more than 120 days - then the consumer will also be able to address the DFG. The DFG pays the funds and then makes a claim to the developer so that the consumer can actually buy another place. We are talking about solutions that really strengthen the position - we discussed this very constructively and in the subcommittee, and in the committee. There was less room for emotion, but it really managed to work very hard, substantively overwork this project. It is the result, if we are talking about the very same. Developing Guarantee Fund, contribution, consensus between the rights of buyers and security of funds and the interests of entrepreneurs themselves. It is often also this development lobby, very strong, that points to some myths in terms of bankruptcy 2, that is, in some ways, also misleading. If we are talking about the actual scale and we have obtained information from the courts for the same period from the previous law until 2019, that is about 110 bankruptcies of housing companies. Not only is this protected when it comes to DFG, not only when the developer falls, but also when the bank falls or there are significant disadvantages. Often the emotions are about contributions, but let us remember that this is insurance of the funds that the buyer pays when the market could actually get into trouble. Let us remember, ladies and gentlemen, that last year alone the developers appealed, expressed their outrage at how difficult the situation was. Had it not been for the reduction of interest rates and the massive movement of funds to the housing market, including deposits, this difficulty on the part of developers would have already been very clear. That is why further measures are needed, further legal mechanisms which will significantly secure the most important investment in the lives of many Poles and Poles, which is the purchase of housing, which very often meets the basic needs of living in terms of housing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u606	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that the draft amendment was submitted to the draft law at second reading, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Infrastructure in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy on the draft law amending certain laws in connection with the transfer of funds from open pension funds to individual pension accounts. The objection raised against the application to refer the draft law to the committee was withdrawn. I therefore conclude that the Sejm has agreed to refer the draft law back to the committee in order to submit a report. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the Health Commission's report on the government draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws (prints Nos 1013 and 1078). I ask Mr Bolesław Piecha to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u607	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Health Committee, I have the honour to present a report on the Government's draft law amending the Law on healthcare services financed by public funds and other laws contained in print no. 1013. On 16 March 2021, Marshal of the Sejm addressed this draft to the committee for its first reading. The Health Commission held a meeting on 13 April at which a representative of the Government, in this case the Minister for Health, presented the principles of the law and the reasons for it, and held a discussion. In the course of the discussion, a motion was made to reject the law at first reading. As a result of the vote against the first reading, 20 Members voted against - 18. Therefore, according to the report, I request on behalf of the committee that the High Sejm reject the draft law contained in print 1013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u608	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. Let me remind you that according to the article. Article 46 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm on the committee's report requesting rejection of the draft shall be held without the right to submit amendments and proposals. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek as a representative of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u609	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government draft law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws, print No. 1013. The bill presented above all is an amendment to the Law of 27 August 2004 on public-funded healthcare provision. It changes the procedure for mapping health needs and introduces transformation plans - national and voivodship - in place of priorities for regional health policy. The aim of this regulation will be to improve the strategic planning system for health protection. The proposed changes centralise the management by giving the Minister of Health the power to draw up a map of health needs, develop a national transformation plan and evaluate and approve voivodship transformation plans. They also introduce powers for the President of the National Health Fund to draw up a draft plan for the purchase of health care services in the area of the voivodship. Formerly, it was done by the directors of the NFZ Voivodeship Branches. The map is to be valid for 7 years, the first in 6 years from 1 January 2022 to 31 December 2027, as are the transformation plans, with the possibility of being modified in line with updated data after 4 years. The Health Need Map will be a key document to identify health needs and challenges for the organisation of the healthcare system. It will be the foundation of the creation of a national transformation plan. The national transition plan will be developed, established, monitored and updated by the Minister of Health. The advisory vote will be held by the Social Dialogue Council, President of the NFZ, President of the Agency for Medical Technology and Tarification, Director of the State Hygiene Plant. Voivodship transformation plans will be drawn up by the voivodships and the consultative vote will have voivodship councils on health needs. They will be composed, apart from the voivodeship: representatives of the voivodeship, representatives of the President of the NFZ, representative of the President of the Agency for Medical Technology and Tarification, representative of the Marshal of the voivodship, representative of the State Provincial Sanitary Inspector, representative of the patient's attorney, representative of the Director of the National Institute of Public Health - State Hygiene Institute, representative of the Minister responsible for Health. The draft law aims primarily at introducing organisational changes to improve the operation of the system in order to ensure equal access to public funded healthcare services. Health protection in Poland does not work well despite much more financial resources in the system. Directional changes are needed. And this law can be the basis for the implementation of directional changes. It does not refer to specific methods of diagnosis, treatment, but sets out how the necessary changes are to be made so as to ensure equal access to public-funded healthcare for all. Patients must be provided with a universal and efficient comprehensive health care system that facilitates daily life. It is important to cooperate with medical providers at all levels: family doctor, rescue system, county hospitals, voivodship and clinical hospitals. The transformation plans that have been developed can give this an orderly character. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I recommend the Law and Justice to proceed with the proposed bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u610	Thank you very much. Mr Rajmund Miller, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u611	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Civic Coalition - Civic Platform club to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the draft law amending the Law on healthcare services financed by public funds and certain other laws, prints Nos 1013 and 1078. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is nothing more than an attempt to centralize health care management in our country. This is a trial in which the Ministry and Minister will have an exclusive, only impact on the plan or on the maps of health needs, but no longer health needs, because even this law does not talk about regional health needs, but about the map of national health needs. Ladies and gentlemen, this law completely excludes the participation of local authorities in planning and influencing the needs and shaping of these health maps. And since this is not my idea, I will quote the opinion of BAS: The proposed changes centralise management by giving the Minister responsible for health exclusive powers to draw up maps of health needs and a national transformation plan subject to the ongoing opinion of other bodies. In addition, it gives it the power to binding opinion and approval of the voivodship transformation plan established by the voivodship with only the consultative participation of the voivodship council on health needs and subject to non-binding opinion of the said authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, the composition of the voivodship council on health needs is also outrageous. Well, 90% of this membership is made up of representatives of the state administration, and only two representatives, one Marshal and one representative of the districts, a district convention, are members of this committee of several people. I think that the real purpose of this law is to jump into money, to jump into money, to jump into European funds, because the ministry will manage both the map of health needs, and it will be money for its own, not for strangers, as today we are dealing with funds allocated to the needs of different local governments. Imagine a situation in which the Minister will say that the hospital is unnecessary and we are removing it from the map of health needs. And I wanted to remind you that it was this ministry that led to the enormous debt of hospitals, in 2019 it was PLN 15 billion. Today we do not know what debt it really is. We have great doubts, we do not agree with this law, because the ministry and the government have shown complete indifference in health care, especially during the pandemic period. Ladies and gentlemen, when in March last year health care establishments were struggling with the lack of basic security measures for workers, when we had until today an unexplained issue about buying and spending unnecessary money on ventilators, when the Ministry did not explain what it did with masks for 5 million zlotys bought without certificates and other equipment, I will tell you what the advantage of local authorities is. Well, my local government in the Opole Voivodeship in March, when in Poland the ministry was working on this pandemic, that there were only two laboratories in the country doing research and on 5 March there were only 300 tests done, please countries, for the whole country 300 tests, then the Marshal's office in Opole, which is an administrative representative of the local government, undertook and implemented projects, based of course on funds from the European Union, which now the ministry wants to take away, organized the purchase of 79 respirators for 32 hospitals in Opole Voivodeship. You have not heard of an affair with ventilators in the Opole Voivodeship, because they have been bought honestly. It was this office that also purchased defibrillators, it was this office that bought, ladies and gentlemen, two CAT scans, the state-of-the-art ones that helped diagnose pneumonia caused by COVID, it was this office that bought four ambulances for hospitals. And that's the advantage. the activities of local authorities. Where today - I think it would be similar in Poland - would we be at the beginning of a pandemic? [[♪ The bell ♪]] We'd be in a really difficult situation. Therefore, the Civic Platform and the Civic Coalition are applying to your marshal to reject this law in its entirety at second reading. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left Club. You're welcome, sir. Mr. Marshal, I wanted to tell you. Thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u612	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Tomorrow at hours. 9 a.m. we will vote on the proposal from the Health Committee to reject the project in its entirety. I hope that the Sejm will make such a decision, that we will finish this topic tomorrow at hours. 9, because we have at our disposal a project submitted by the Minister, who has told us a lot about the benefits. The Left Club, as well as representatives of other opposition clubs, do not see any benefits beyond the benefit of the minister. This is, in our view, an important component, but with the consequence of the plans to take full control of health protection in every dimension by the government in the person of the Minister. In this term, I remind you, we were centralizing the health centers. Unfortunately, this did not improve the health care system. Only with the help of health care personnel was he able to perform, with great difficulty, basic tasks. We set new rules for the purpose of investment - again in the Minister's hands. We have limited the role of voivodship health funds under the pretext of various anti-epidemic actions - all in the minister's hands. This bill is an important component of what awaits us, i.e. the so-called bill. centralisation of hospitals. So far we do not know the details, but one thing is certain: the staff for the PiS, some form of settlement with the local government as to ownership, previous expenditures, debts, etc., undoubtedly the ownership control of the Minister of Health and the full impact on how the money from the Reconstruction Fund will be available, which is just around here. And that's how we perceive this bill. It's one big piece of shit. It changes what was working out there somehow. The only argument to be agreed with is that the voivodship councils sometimes counted over 100 people and were an insterable creation. Yeah, that's okay. So, what do you propose to the Minister? We're reducing numbers almost 10 times. Various suspicious people, such as doctors, representatives of local governments, healthcare providers, because health stakeholders are huge, we cut out. We leave our own, i.e. controlled, management or designated state institutions related to health protection. It is already insolence and mocking self-government. There's no interest in the patient here. We have very little time. I have prepared amendments which, I hope, will not be needed because there will be no further procession at all. I'll exchange them, these suggestions, how much time I have, very quickly. In order to meet the needs of the local government, the voivodship transformation plan can finance guaranteed benefits for residents of this community. And why can't the unwarranted ones? Next line. It is convenient for you to have these plans in place for 7 years. We're offering five years. This is exactly my proposal, on behalf of the Left Club, to move on from seven years to five years. Where it's seven years old, we've changed it for five years. Why should the Council of Social Dialogue only be consulted and not yet the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission? Or what? Is he gonna give a bad opinion? Why aren't there any doctors? They should be, and that's what I'm proposing. The national health consultant, the head of the National Oncology Strategy, the head of the National Oncology Network and others should be involved. The project is eliminated, unnecessary. Why aren't there any doctors at all? Even if they're not on the board, at least they're entitled to an opinion. I propose voivodship consultants in environmental protection (the bell), which of course was not there. Thank you very much. And many others, because there are these 13 amendments to try to civilize... Mr President, you have run out of time. Step out of the podium, please. ...a project that's one big bubble... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u613	Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u614	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think the most interesting summary of this law would be to re-create Mr Andrzej Soszerz's speech from yesterday's meeting of the Health Committee, an expert who represents the Law and Justice Club, and set the Orca on the same footing as the opposition yesterday. It's even more spectacular because it represents a government camp. There's a lot to talk about this bill. Maybe I'll start with the Voivodeship Council. You've come up with a lineup that even if half of your representatives get sick, you're still gonna win the vote. On the 13 members 10 on the wall- concrete represents the ruling option, Law and Justice, and when the voivodeship, where the Marshal of Law and Justice rules, is 11 out of 13. And if there's any advantage in the old men's convention, 12 out of 13 will represent Law and Justice. The family becomes, say, a theoretically independent representative of the patient's attorney. It's such a democracy, such a decentralisation that 12 out of 13 represents government thinking, central thinking. A beautiful democratic package. My question is basic: Why didn't you think that there must be a majority of representatives from the region? After all, the representatives of the leading bodies, the main ones, or the Marshal's office, are mostly more than 40% market share of stationary medicine. If it's gonna add up to the county, it's gonna be twice as much. Why didn't you even think about private sector representatives who play a very important role, especially now, during the epidemic, when they save this inefficient system? That's where people save themselves. Besides, you asked some of the hospitals for COVID treatment alone... Why didn't you think of the rectors of local medical schools? They didn't find a place on this council either. Are you saying that from Warsaw it will be better to see what the health care system should look like in Podkarpacie, in Łódź, Wielkopolska? You appreciate the voivodship. Now we can evaluate the role of the voivodships, how they dealt with during the pandemic, especially at the beginning. All those crises, DPS evacuations, etc. I certainly wouldn't bet on the experience they have. I would certainly bet on the experience of district governments, voivodships. Please indicate where the legal mechanism for the implementation of recommended orientations on the map referred to in the so-called law is enshrined in this law. the mid-term report on the implementation of the national plan. It wasn't specified in the bill. Please do not say that this can be included in the regulations, because it is generally the rule of regulations. This is the Republic you have arranged for us and the courts have already revealed the truth about what quality It's the law. I would also ask you to explain how the transition plan will be able to provide the basis for an effective obligation to implement certain actions, e.g. in the field of investment, for entities which, like local self-government units which form the majority of medicinal entities in voivodships, have constitutional independence guaranteed or are economic entities. Or do you want to order the private hospital owners to do the same? Speaking of which, it is stated in the explanatory memorandum that IOWISZ introduced an assessment of the purpose of the investment to assess the appropriateness of investments relevant from the point of view of improving the system and arising from health needs rather than local aspirations. Well, I think it's the height of impudence. Unfortunately, Mr Hoc developed this topic at the committee meeting. He's probably awake, watching. I don't see him in the gym, it's half past twelve, no, it's ten to twelve, ten to midnight. If he's watching us, I'd like him to come up with a few proposals from his region tomorrow, which relate to unnecessary investments and are merely the result of local aspirations. As for the examples that I know about my voivodship, it would offend all those who, for example. they use oncology privately because they really feel better there than in some crowded public institutions. In my opinion, these solutions are a centralisation plan, not a transformation, and this amendment is part of a broader plan. You'll probably close it with a new bill that we've already discussed in the Health Committee, which will complete the whole centralization. I only regret that some of the opposition did not see the first step when the OCI was being expanded and actually tied hands with many private entrepreneurs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u615	Mr Michał Urbaniak, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u616	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The current health system and its financial dependency are extremely non-transparent. This causes a lot of failure and tragic problems in its effects. In Poland, a complete overhaul of the health care system is needed according to the conditions and needs of Poles. Does this project respond to such needs? Absolutely not. Here we have an attempt to make a superficial, cosmetic change, which, like many others, can end in defeat and embarrassment. It is worth mentioning to begin with positive changes. The Minister of Health will develop a map of health needs including, among others, demographic and epidemiological analyses and analysis of the state and use of health system resources, including, inter alia, medical personnel. The idea itself would perhaps be right, the sphere of decision-making would be clearly defined, but I am not convinced that Minister Niedzielski will be able to deal with such matters, given his past achievements. According to the government, the solutions proposed in the draft law are a reference to the UK system reform activities, where the NHS introduced a system of local plans in 44 regions in 2016. They shall be developed by consensus by local governments. In fact, this solution is more consistent with the decentralised system under which medicinal products are managed. This would significantly reduce the possibility of central planning. The problem is that the Polish government prefers to manually control local hardware resources or employees rather than to shift it to typical voivodship tasks. Ministerial control should be an accident of the state in voivodships, taking into account the migration of staff and the audit of their equipment, not manual control. It should be remembered that no plan - such a seven-year-old - will cure cancer in an ongoing health care system. Let us also remember the other faults of the current government in these matters. One of the hardest charges is bringing doctors from outside the European Union and exempting them from passing the exam instead of even exempting them from the oral examination over 3,000. Polish resident doctors. Poland, to be clear, is the leader of excess deaths in Europe, which is due to a 25% drop in hospitalisation: 1300 thousand. patients were not hospitalized. The planned procedures are postponed. Massive teleporads or lack of a component of physical tests did not allow proper diagnosis, which consequently affected the health of Poles. Patients who have other diseases than COVID are not treated and die. That's the truth. Those decisions were made in the government. Moreover, closing schools means not only problems related to education or the organisation of life at home, but also mental problems that result, especially in young people who are deprived of peer contact or socialization opportunities. This is the beginning of a series of diseases and mental disorders. It should be remembered that in 2019 630 thousand. The children needed the help of specialists. What will happen after 2020, 2021, or maybe 2022, where we'll probably live in a lockdown? The focus of the health system only on the fight against one disease has led to a reduction in care benefits. Many patients have been suspended for long-term treatments and surgeries. These patients have often waited months or even years for them, and now they will continue to wait because they have been deprived of hope and have been sentenced to prolong the suffering they have experienced. Reduction of planned operations or treatments dropped by 80%. The next thing you know, it's cancer. Their detection rate dropped by 33% and the number of admissions to oncology facilities decreased by about 50%. Poles die of a known and cureable disease only because they are refused treatment, and this is a scandal. Every death is a tragedy, but especially the pain of death that could simply be avoided. For wrong policy, let's put it simply, you are the prime minister of Morawiecki, ministers of Szumowski, Niedzielski and Dworczyk. We expect settlement, but it must be a priority to change policy to one that will prevent further such surpluses. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u617	Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u618	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday, in the Health Committee, we heard that this project is necessary because public authorities provide access to health services and therefore centralisation of decisions and processes is necessary. It is therefore worth looking back at how the Law and Justice Government has implemented this main thesis, which aims to introduce a new system of strategic planning several months or years ago. The responsibility for the financial failure of hospitals has been dropped and maintained on local government units, which, despite the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal in this case, still have to complement the financial deficits and losses that arise in their subordinates. The responsibility for the suspension of planned procedures and operations in COVID-19 has been dropped on doctors and directors of individual institutions, so you have also removed it from your head, making doctors work harder, unfortunately, because they have to make additional decisions for you. The role of the voivodeship is currently limited to taking network doctors from hospitals to temporary hospitals and, on the other hand, imposing network hospitals to open further COVID units in their territory with reduced staff. It's just as short of hands for work as in temporary hospitals. I'm going back to the bill. Generally speaking, this is the process of centralising and strengthening the role of Minister of Health at the expense of local governments. As far as the map of health needs is concerned, it should, of course, be centrally drawn up, but with far greater consultation and taking into account the knowledge we collect in the field. I'm sure that's what's missing. The map of health needs so far in its first edition did not meet its expectations, analyses concerned only public funds, lacked the one-off recommendations needed to take action and find solutions. Nor do I believe that these mechanisms that we are applying in this project will lead us to some conclusions, solutions and systemic changes that should follow. The next issue is a national transition plan to replace priorities for regional health policy. You clearly separate the competence to identify health needs and to identify areas requiring intervention, with the Minister of Health either approving the project of the voivodship plan or transferring comments to the voivodship. The Minister of Health's comments will be mandatory. So again, you're taking over the laws, asking if you're going to take over the responsibility because that's what's still missing. Voivodship Council Health - the Minister defended himself in the committee that he had done so before - in our opinion he unnecessarily took three representatives of the fund president, while one marshal, one representative of the district convention from the province. The disproportion of central authorities vis-à-vis local authorities is decisive, but it would really be better if we used more decentralised knowledge. Another progressive centralisation of processes is in terms of changes in the purchase plans for benefits that will be set, drawn up, the President of the NFZ. The Minister of Health will be able to verify compliance with other elements of the area - we are also going this way. You have lost the vote on the Health Committee because very few are in favour of this project. He is ill-written and does not guarantee any real changes. The key question is, I'm sure Marshal Terlecki knows the answer to that question. Tomorrow, with this rejection, we will vote on the changes in the Parliamentary Parliamentary Assembly. The question is whether the members are dealing with the substantive comments to this project, whether you will simply manually change the personal stores of the Health Commission in order to push this bill through as usual with your knee. Our agreement is not, we will not support this law, we will vote against it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u619	Six Members have asked questions. As the first Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition. Mr. Marshal would answer my cunning and extremely interesting question. I hope that we will complete the committee's composition so that we can reject the reservations of an incompetent, uncompetent opposition. Mr Michael Szczerba, please. I get it. I get it. Honesty at midnight. But thank you, Marshal, for being honest at least. Sure.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u620	Good evening. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This project is an attempt to centralize when it comes to building a diagnosis of health needs, but unfortunately this office and this governing system have no credibility. The minister's not a doctor, but he's dealing with vile reports of a medical professor. The chief health inspector during the epidemic is not an epidemiologist, he is an engineer, but he wants to deprive Dr. Grzesiowski of his right to pursue his profession. At the time when the minister is Radziwiłł, it is an assessment of the purpose of the investment: the women's oncology department in Wola in the centre of Attis, and then the NFZ has not awarded a contract for this centre for several years. This is your credibility, which we also want to talk about, in the context of all the projects you are presenting to us. That's our assessment. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u621	Thank you very much, but somehow you failed to ask a question. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u622	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is a mockery of the life and health of Poles. Proceding him at the time is a scandal. Today, this world has left 800 Poles, and we in the Seym are proceeding over a law called: a map of health needs. After all, all Poles know this map of health needs. Today is a war, there is a need for vaccination, there is a need for access to specialists, there is a need to eliminate queues, there is a need to allow scheduled operations, and we are proceeding over a law that no one needs today. If the Ministry of Health is bored, then - ladies and gentlemen - go to Poznań, today the chief specialist is not a doctor, and there is a prosecutor, because in the temporary hospital someone did not order oxygen and there is a course of action why seven people died. If there's so much excess today [[♪ The bell ♪]] Death, that's... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u623	Thank you, sir. You didn't ask the question either. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u624	Two pretty quick questions I didn't have time to ask. Why was the ombudsman introduced - and this is a good idea - but why was the ombudsman eliminated? Second thing. Why is it only after 4 years, which is already in the next term, planned of course, to be the first real evaluation of these documents? I wanted to ask as a doctor why doctors are being given various trials, attacks, including Maximovich, and there are no doctors in these bodies at all. What did you manage, Minister, to eliminate doctors, local governments, hospitals, nurses, physiotherapists, the National Chamber of Laboratory Diagnostics? They're gone. There are not many other components, so-called. the interests of the whole health system. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why aren't they here?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u625	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u626	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The burden of modernization and adaptation to the standards of Polish health services has mainly been borne by local governments in recent years. I wanted to ask if the health department has calculations and is aware of the level of debt of county hospitals, hospitals run by voivodship authorities today. Isn't it better, in your opinion, instead of powdering this reality with such a law, which we are seeking, to think about extending simply these hospitals, making amends by the central authority to those expenditures that have been incurred in recent years on health care, sometimes additional expenditures, as is the case with many municipalities, also in the case of the commune where I live, from which I have the pleasure here, to come to the High Chamber, i.e. Oborniki in Wielkopolska? That's what happened. I'd be very grateful for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u627	Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u628	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you one more time consistently. I hope that Minister Gadomski will answer me. Namely, it is a legal mechanism through which the transformation plans will be implemented. Where there's a recipe in this bill that's gonna order the old man, the president of the city, for example. Did he build certain investments? There's no dialysis station, there's no nephrology department, please build it. On what basis, on the basis of which provision is in this law, will the State implement it? Second question. Why do you want to remove Professor Maximovich and President Sosnier from the Health Committee tomorrow? For professionalism or for politics? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u629	Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u630	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, for two years, actually for almost two years, from the beginning of your term of office, you can see where you're going with this. You're going to take out local governments, you're going to sequester them at any moment, you're going to take their money, you're going to throw out local government representatives with all the governments. You can see it even here. Why do you think from a dozen-member voivodship council on employment needs... There's only three people from local governments, three people. Apparently, it's all about sequencing. My question is different. We live in a time of pandemic, there's a coronavirus. Times are really that something happens all the time, something has to be done. And you write down that for seven years you won't be able to change your health plan. This is an amazing situation and very sick. It seems to me that this whole bill is just to make a jump out of the Union again so that only you can separate it from yours. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u631	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Now I'll ask your Undersecretary of State at Sławomir Gadomski's Ministry of Health. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u632	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I feel a certain or complete misunderstanding of the intentions and purposes of this law. I feel like we talked about everything today, but not necessarily about this bill. We talked about nationalization, centralization, respirators, personal protective equipment, many, many other things, queues to specialist doctors, hospital debt, the number of procedures and many, many different threads that have absolutely no direct - of course they have indirect - translation into a draft law prepared by the government. After this discussion today, before answering your questions, I will ask myself: Who is responsible for health policy in Poland? Minister Dworczyk, I think. Minister of Health. I think that's a great answer, and I think we all agree on that. The owner of the ventilators. On the one hand, all expectations related... Even those allegations that came out of this podium today: the lack of personal protective equipment in the pandemic - the Minister of Health, the absence of ventilators - the Minister of Health, the queues to doctors - the Minister of Health, the debt of hospitals - the Minister of Health, the absence of treatments in hospitals, as I understand everyone, i.e. the district... No, we're talking state. ...marszałkowskich - Minister of Health, Cancer Detection and Diagnosis in Various Subjects - Minister of Health, Teleports in POZ - Minister of Health. Ladies and gentlemen! It is no wonder that the Minister of Health wants to influence how this health policy in this country is shaped. Let us not be surprised that it is the Minister of Health who defines the map of health needs, that the Minister of Health determines the health strategy, which is precisely the national transition plan, that it is the Minister of Health who has the right to evaluate the voivodship transformation plans, which are to be consistent with the map of needs, with area strategies, with those documents which he draws up by creating health policy. Honestly? I don't know what's weird about this construction. I don't find the answer. Or let us be clear: health policy in this country is not created by the Minister of Health. It's created by local governments, financed by themselves, provided by personal protective equipment themselves, reduced queues to doctors themselves, ensured that hospitals didn't cancel their visits and procedures. But then let's give up these claims and grudges to the Minister of Health. But then you don't need a health minister. Don't disturb me, sir. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Sławomir Gadomski: As a health resort, we address the shortcomings we are talking about. We are building certain strategies, whether in areas or strategies for change, or organisational changes, or the financing system of the health sector, and we are taking responsibility for this. You're talking about an assassination attempt on EU money. Another thread I can't understand completely. Where is this mentioned in the bill? I will say more, it is the European Union, it is the European Commission in the course of the negotiations that clearly tells us: we expect the Minister of Health to show us the national transition plan, that he will show us the health strategy, that he will show us a document on the basis of which we will assess whether the reforms proposed in the National Reconstruction Plan, the RIAD mechanism, the future cohesion policy are in line with the health sector strategy. I will say more, it was the European Union that forced the previous governments, the government in 2014, to prepare this bill, which we are updating today, the law on map of needs. Unfortunately, there was clearly no time and determination to prepare it from start to finish, to ensure strategic planning goals in health care... Minister, six years old, six years old. ...to ensure the objectives of rationalisation in this area, which we have introduced, as IWISH raised today. AND YOU WANT this mechanism of rationalisation. This is not a tool of the Minister of Health, it is a tool for rationalising resources in the health sector. I understand that today it is easy for many decision-makers, local governments, marshals to buy another CT scan. Three million, a grant, a ribbon, a cut-- everyone's supposed to be happy. I'm the only one who knows hospitals today, dear country, where there are more C.T. scans than radiologists. And that's rational? This is a rational policy pursued by these actors? I say: it is not, unambiguously. At least they are, they didn't die like ventilators. Clearly, it is not, Commissioner, if we have equipment today just to keep it standing. The equipment is to be used. This is the rationalisation of the health sector. The troops are to be used. But for them to be used, you have to do... Is it rational, for example, to maintain labor units with 150 births? I'll leave that question open. National consultant says it's not. But these are not the decisions of the Minister of Health. These are decisions... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr President, you are disturbing me once again. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But this isn't a discussion, you're not in committee right now. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Sławomir Gadomski: Ladies and gentlemen! [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Marshal, can I have another minute for these specific questions? Half a minute. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Sławomir Gadomski: Thank you very much. I will answer these specific questions briefly. Mr Wolski. Neither the ombudsman nor the ombudsman. This is the catching up that took place, and the ombudsman took over the ombudsman's duties in this area. We are only making this change because, unfortunately, it has not been noticed for 12 years, that in fact there is no representative of the ombudsman in the Council of the National Health Fund. But yesterday I declared that if there was an amendment, we would also support the participation of the National Council of the ombudsman's fund. 4 years for the assessment of the long-term strategy is not too little time to respond to Mr Łącki. It's not like you can't change the plan for seven years. Mr President, every year there is an update and a voivodship transformation plan, and a national transformation plan. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u633	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed in the course of voting on the committee's motion to reject the bill. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the National Debt Register and certain other laws (prints 1016 and 1067). I ask Mr Mark Ast to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u634	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, it is my pleasure to present the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Act on the National Debt Register and certain other laws, prints 1067 and 1016. The Commission carried out its first reading of this draft on 8 April and, after considering the draft law, asks the High House to approve the attached draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u635	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Kazimierz Smolinski... Oh, I'm sorry. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles, as always. So I'm opening the discussion. Mr Kazimierz Smolinski on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u636	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club vis-à-vis the government's draft law amending the National Debt Register Act and some other laws. The bill is designed in addition to the basic amendment, i.e. amendments to the Act on the National Debt Register, also amends the Act - Bankruptcy Law and the Law - Restructuring Law, are such major changes, while also affects the Act on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters, the Act on the License of Restructuring Advisor and the Act on the National Court Register. There is no doubt that, given the growing number of cases dealt with by common courts, including bankruptcy and restructuring cases, it is necessary to adopt legislative and IT arrangements that will enable these proceedings to be managed efficiently, ensuring that citizens are able to exercise their right to court. Ensuring the capacity of the general court requires full information on civil proceedings. This information makes it possible to speed up and streamline proceedings, better inform the parties and the participants in proceedings, reduce the costs of judicial proceedings and the overall costs of the judiciary, increase the transparency of these proceedings and increase the capacity to supervise the activities of the courts. The fact that measures have been taken in the Ministry of Justice to inform proceedings should be welcomed. To date, the widest scope of informationization of court proceedings is provided for by the Act of 6 December 2018 on the National Debt Register. Important solutions there can be the beginning of full informationalisation of the judiciary, especially since restructuring and organisational insolvency proceedings are the most difficult legal proceedings. This is because there are two judicial authorities, i.e. the court and the judge-counsel, the out-of-court authorities: the administrator, the overseer, the administrator, the debtor, there are creditors, sometimes even a thousand and more. In restructuring proceedings, insolvency proceedings are carried out which do not occur in other proceedings. The procedural documents and documents as a result of this law will be created and submitted using forms made available in the electronic system by the Minister of Justice. This will apply to a number of documents, including inventory and lists of claims, inventory, distribution plans. The assumption is that the ICT system will not only be a platform for posting letters and documents, but will also be a system in which data will be processed in such a way as to improve the management of the bankruptcy and restructuring case. The solutions set out in the National Debt Register Act therefore cover the full range of processes necessary to inform proceedings, i.e. the introduction of the principle of electronic communication with the court, the introduction of electronic service, the introduction of the principle of electronic decision-making, the introduction of solutions to protect the rights of digitally excluded persons, the introduction of electronic files and the provision of access to files via the Internet and the secretariats of the court. Let me remind you that 7781 consumer insolvencys were recorded in 2019. Assuming that about 10 different types of documents are created in each case, due to the entry into force of the proposed solutions, the electronicisation will cover around 77 thousand. documents arising from consumer insolvency cases. And that's the most important thing in this bill. As I said, in the field of insolvency law, there are many changes in which the protection proceedings depart from the horizontal complaint made in the Code of Civil Procedure for the provision of collateral, there is provision for clarification of the rules on complaints by a precise indication in which cases the court of second instance considers the complaint and in which that restructuring court in another composition. As far as transparency is concerned, the proposal also envisages introducing (...) a solution consisting of the possibility of self-checking an earlier decision as a result of the complaint. As a general rule, these changes result from the technical solutions used in the construction of the National Debt Register and the IT system for judicial proceedings. Their aim is to ensure coherence between technical regulations and legislation. At the same time, Mr Marshal, I would like to make amendments to this project: three amendments on insolvency law and one amendment on the National Debt Register. The Law and Justice Club... Thank you very much. ...supports and will support this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u637	Mrs Magdalena Filiks, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u638	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Although you'd like to say, the night chamber. I don't know if there's another ten seconds here. The minister just now, I don't know why he asked me if it was worth keeping the delivery of 150 people, women. You just came to me, so I'm gonna answer as the mother of three kids that's worth it. I can assure you that delivery is not always possible 100 or 200 kilometers, so if you've asked me, I'll let you answer me. As for the project - in this room the PiS presented various projects today, instructing Parliament and parliamentarians that every government project is good and should be welcomed, and this is a quote that I remember. While it was most often impossible and false, this time on behalf of the coalition I am really pleased that we are at the second reading of the bill amending the Act on the National Debt Register. I welcome this fact because this is the implementation of the European Parliament Regulation of 20 May 2015, which introduced for all Member States an obligation to establish and maintain at least one register in which information on insolvency proceedings was to be published. In accordance with this Directive, the EU time for this, ladies and gentlemen, expired for the Member States on 26 June 2018. That means three years ago, it's been past the deadline for this. That's why I'm glad we can talk about it. To this day, there is no system in Poland. The Law on these regulations was adopted by the Sejm as early as December 2018, also with the support of the opposition. I checked - I was not a Member then - all those changes were supported by the opposition. These changes were to enter into force on 1 December 2020, but this was not achieved. Subsequently, the COVID Act in October 2020 postponed the date of entry into force of the Act to July 2021. But this system still doesn't exist. Initially, such a limited enough plan would create a central register of the restructuring and bankruptcy of CRRU, but also this project, even to such a narrow extent, could never be realised. Here is my question: Why have these changes not been implemented for such a long time, even to a much smaller extent than this large, ambitious project? Of course, I would add that the project itself does not raise our doubts. Many of these changes are needed, legitimate. Indeed, they improve insolvency and restructuring proceedings. Moreover, the vast majority of them are technical amendments that are orderly. We have already submitted some of our comments at the committee meeting. However, serious doubts must be raised and raised by the state of preparation of the IT system necessary to implement all these ambitious changes. Such an ambitious IT project as the Member has just mentioned here, making so many changes, really requires technical preparation, testing, training and implementation. A functioning ICT system is a prerequisite for the success of all these changes. And so far in the Polish judicial system such a system does not work. Unfortunately, at the committee meeting, I was unable to learn anything from the Ministry about the work on this system, even at what stage of implementation it is now. But during the consultation on this project, I conducted a broad consultation. I've been able to get word that the only trace of government contact in this case until today is one e-mail. One e-mail, sir, to the courts with such a preliminary request for persons to operate the system. Unfortunately, that means the system doesn't exist until today. And in order to say that he is, there would have to be proper tests, training and a complex implementation process first. Unfortunately, all of this didn't happen. One sentence about the amendment I'm making. That is why it is appropriate to take into account the voice of the judges' and other organisations' circles and to postpone the time limits for the entry into force of this law in order to allow those involved in this process to prepare themselves technically and organisationally. As legislators, we must all be responsible for ensuring that the changes made do not hinder the conduct of proceedings in this area. Hence the amendment of the Civic Coalition, and since it has already passed, as I said, 3 years from the date when the regulation was to enter into force, we propose not to prolong this process excessively. It takes about 3 months to implement the system in a responsible manner, so we would like to postpone the entry into force of this law until 1 October. There's another amendment I'm making to the hands of the marshal. Thank you very much. And I hope that this is a positive consideration, because it is reasonable and responsible, and that is what you are supposed to expect from the opposition. Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan, Club Left. I thought I was out of time. No, it was the phone. Don't call me. I'm not the one he called. You've got 15 seconds left. I'll take it. I've got 20 seconds left, Mr.... No... I just wanted one reflection, if you don't mind. I'll let you. Yes. I'm just gonna share this reflection, that's actually gonna be a rhetorical question. I am a Member of the first term of office. It's been a year of hard work remotely, and actually every project I've been thinking about: how it is possible that in the Seym, even for projects that don't concern me, it's very often that I see how unprepared these projects are, how unprepared implementation systems are. And I wanted to share that reflection... Because I don't know how many of you have had a chance, I don't know, to work in business, to run their businesses. I wanted to tell you that apart from the Sejm, apart from parliamentary life (the bell), where we are the law determining the lives of millions of people, such things would not go away. Thank you very much. Any manager would be fired for that. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] What's going on in the Seym wouldn't have gone anywhere else in this country.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u639	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u640	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The growing debt of Poles and Poles, like the high inefficiency of execution, is a fact. This is a huge legal and social problem. Pandemic time certainly does not improve this situation. On the other hand, it is important for economic turnover for its participants to be able to verify information on the counterparty concerning its solvency. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the The National Debt Register is intended in a comprehensive manner to lead to digitisation, the electronicisation of insolvency proceedings as well as restructuring procedures, and to enable any interested party to verify the counterparty. That's right, everyone. The devil is always in the details and, in the case of this law, in the regulation designed for it and the availability of registers, in the level of data protection. There are a number of questions and questions here. The primary tool for searching for the data disclosed in the register will be the PESEL number, the NIP number or the case name. In that case, thanks to the availability of the register, anyone who knows e.g. PESEL of a given person will be able to check out his potential partner, not just business, but e.g. future wife or future husband? How much such information should be made available to outsiders? Doesn't the register open up new, over-control possibilities for employers and contractors? Doesn't such records affect the protection of personal data? Will it not be so that after the PESEL number everyone will be able to check whether the person has debts, at what amount, or whether they are maintenance debts? At present, entries in existing debtor registers are rather unilateral, sometimes unreasonable, and even worse, are outdated. Let us remember that the data in this register is to be kept for 10 years and, in the case of maintenance debtors, for 7 years. The problem with PESEL and GDPR numbers in this case is not the only questionable issue. The question arises as to whether such a solution does not infringe the Constitution, specifically the Article. 47 on the right to the protection of private life or Article. 51 according to which the public authority cannot acquire, collect, share information about citizens other than those necessary in a democratic legal state. Does the register, as it stands, meet the constitutional conditions set out there? This submission in print No 1016 amends the Act of 6 December 2018 on the National Debt Register. What is the essence of the presentation? On 30 August 2019, one year after the adoption of the Act on the National Register of Debtors, the Act amending the Act on Insolvency Law was adopted and it turned out that the solutions adopted in these two projects are not consistent. This submission adapts the solutions adopted in these two laws to enable the objectives of the Insolvency Law to be achieved through the ICT solutions adopted in the National Debt Register Act. The amendments are intended to enable insolvency proceedings to be handled against natural persons, in particular non-business persons, by means of an electronic system operating judicial proceedings in which the case file is created and processed. As a consequence, the only tool for submitting letters and documents in bankruptcy proceedings and restructuring proceedings is to be the IT system serving legal proceedings, which was created on the basis of the provisions of the Register Act. Since the changes are to include individuals and extend the application of ICT solutions to consumer insolvency, another question arises: What about digitally excluded persons, since in insolvency proceedings this system is to be the only tool available for use, I understand? Is the ICT system so ready and, above all, will its users be prepared to handle it by 1 July this year, indicated as the date of entry into force of the Act? I have doubts because the current legislative process is likely to end at the end of May, there will be about a month left to implement this system. With such doubts, on behalf of the Left Club, I am making an amendment in respect of the amendment of the date of entry into force of this Act on the National Register of debtors and of this draft amendment of the Act. Okay, here you go. Thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u641	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u642	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Because it's late, so it's my club speech I'm going to reduce to, first of all, the declaration that the Polish Coalition club will support this initiative, this project. In our view, consumer bankruptcy requires constant refinement, because this is the solution to real human drama. And the second thing, the second thing is that we will support this regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u643	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u644	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! On 30 August 2019, as we have heard, the law has been amended to improve insolvency proceedings against non-business individuals. Unfortunately, the solutions adopted conflicted with the provisions of the National Debt Register Act, which will eventually enter into force, passed midnight, exactly in 76 days. The Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050 supports this project, despite numerous doubts. When our expert asked what at this time, at midnight, to emphasize especially, but briefly, because if, especially at night, I would start discussing the thickets of these regulations, then the more Marshal Richard Terlecki would not allow me to pass the time, the lawyer had no doubt. It is important to stress the giving of real opportunities for repayment of debt. However, the Poland 2050 Club is making an amendment. We propose in a revised article. 491 with an index of 35 the remuneration of the judicial overseer shall be determined as equivalent to 10% the level of satisfaction of creditors in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement. Change in height from 15% per 10% the level of satisfaction would, in our opinion, be a more proportionate remuneration, if only because the proposed 15% is at a higher rate than the current voluntary deposit with the bailiff, which is 10% , and in addition, at the meeting of the committee, the drafter did not justify the appropriateness of the proposed remuneration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u645	Thank you very much, sir. Four Members have asked questions. First Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u646	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wrote what I had to say here nicely, but unfortunately, the Minister or Deputy Minister of Health changed what I wanted to say. I have to answer him. I wanted to say, Minister, although you do not have, that it is worth keeping pediatric branches in each district, that it is worth to give every money for every Polish child born and that it is not possible to say whether it is worth it from the position of Warsaw, because it is different in Warsaw and Poland is quite different. There are districts that have 100 km per 100 km and must reach this hospital at least 50 km, not 150 km to the voivodeship city. And finally stop saying that we can't afford it, just pay the money for this health care, tighten your belts and give the money so that this health care can finally function properly. You see what's happening. You're not giving anything. We're giving twice as much. You give everything to your own or your Pcimia uncles, and you don't give it to Poland. Get to the point. And finally start... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u647	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. You don't have an MP. Mrs Magdalena Filiks, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u648	Mr. Marshal! Consequently, I wanted to ask you about the things I pointed out, which means who is responsible for such a project by the Ministry of National Debt Register under Action 2.17? Who, exactly? Who and on what basis was selected for the implementation of the IT system and did this take place within the Ministry's resource, or was an external entity selected? If so, was there a tender and in what form did it take place? When did work on the system that will be implemented specifically start, and when has it been completed? When did the tests of the IT system start? Who was involved? Were people and entities outside the Ministry of Justice also invited to the tests? Is the system in any way implemented and ready to work today? What stages are the implementation and sharing of the system to users? What's the time frame for this operation? How much time is expected for training? How much time is provided for user training? Who's gonna run this training? Has the cost of these trainings been taken into account in the framework of the project? What action did the Minister of Justice take to ensure that the system was implemented (the Bell) according to the declared deadline? Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left Club. Thank you, Member. I have one more question. I understand it's a razor... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u649	We need to be on time, Madame. You'll learn in time. I understand, but it would take three seconds, and it was important. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u650	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment of the National Debt Register Act is an important element of building responsibility. Like any change, it should be implemented properly, wisely and safely. That's what I wanted to ask you about security, especially cybersecurity. If statistics on cyber attacks on public administrations are growing in Poland from year to year, it is important that we can forecast them and at the same time secure systems in a responsible manner. Implementation, modification or extension of the system should be consulted sufficiently early. I have a question, Minister. Has this consultation been carried out? Have the experts spoken? Do you have any opinions on this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u651	Thank you. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u652	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards the proposed amendments to the National Debt Register Act, my doubts are raised about the mandatory transmission of documents relating to insolvency proceedings via the IT system serving legal proceedings. Why do I have such doubts? Because the system referred to is the subject of another law currently being examined by the Sejm. We discussed it today. How, then, can the authors of this amendment oblige the parties to use mechanisms that have not yet been set up by the relevant rules for which the required legal procedures have not yet been created? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u653	Thank you. That was the last question. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Michał Woś, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u654	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you for your cross-party support for this project, because it is indeed extremely important. It is about fully computerized procedures - including all files - also carried out in electronic form only accessible to everyone. By answering specific questions, however, maybe with the exception of those within the remit of the Ministry of Health, because some of your fellow Members have focused on this, but as far as the point we are talking about... Namely, I reply to the Member, yes, there was a tender. The bid was won by Asseco. Asseco is implementing this project. Training is planned as part of the product that is provided. Training is scheduled for May and June. These include training for 40 system administrators, 364 users, i.e. judges, assesors, assistants, judges in the economic departments, bankruptcy, restructuring, 206 employees in the economic departments for bankruptcy and restructuring, and 318 employees in the administration offices. All these things aren't in danger. They are implemented as part of the construction of the system. Experts - first of all the jurors, the District Court for the capital city of Warsaw, employees of the bankruptcy department secretariat, former restructuring advisors and other persons cooperated. As far as tests are concerned, safety. Of course, such things are carried out in accordance with the full standard. I'm going back to training. The costs of these trainings were also included in the tender. Everything is available on the Ministry's website. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u655	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government draft law amending the Law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems (prints no 1068 and 1079). I ask Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u656	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on Economics and Development on the Government's draft law amending the Law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems, print no. 1068. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 8 April 2021, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development for first reading. The project aims to implement European Union law. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development carried out its first reading and examined the draft law at its meeting on 13 April 2021. Only legislative amendments were tabled at first reading. The project gives the President of the Office of Competition and Consumer Protection the competence to participate as a representative of Poland in the work of the EU Product Compliance Network until 15 July 2021 and from 16 July to act as a single liaison office directly on the basis of the provisions of the Regulation of the European Communities. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development asks the High Sejm to approve the attached bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u657	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Wojciech Zubowski on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u658	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government draft law amending the Law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems contained in print no. 1068. The draft law itself consists of three articles and is intended to apply the footnotes of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the market surveillance and conformity of products and amending Directive 2004/42/EC and Regulations No 765/2008 and No 305/2011 to the extent that those provisions relate to the Union Network on the Conformity of the products to be laid down by Article. 29 of the Regulation, hereinafter referred to as the Network, the single liaison office, the designation of which is provided for in Article in each EU Member State. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Regulation and the drawing up of the national market surveillance strategy and its summaries referred to in Article. 13 regulations. The Regulation itself entered into force on 15 July 2019. However, there were differences in the application of the network rules and the single liaison office. The provisions on the single liaison office shall apply from 16 July 2021 and the provisions on the establishment of a network whose single liaison offices of each EU Member State are members shall apply from 1 January 2021. On 16 March 2020, the European Commission asked Member States to inform it by 30 June of the body which Member States have designated or intend to designate as a single liaison office. The European Commission intended to organise its first network meeting at the beginning of 2021 and therefore had to obtain information on the single liaison offices designated by the Member States sufficiently early. Therefore, on 28 April, an inter-ministerial panel for the reform of conformity assessment and market surveillance systems adopted a recommendation to the Council of Ministers in the form of a resolution to entrust the tasks of a single liaison office to the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. As a result, it is necessary to give the President of the OMC the power to participate as one of the representatives in the Polish work of the Network until 15 July 2021, so that, starting on 16 July 2021 as a single liaison office, directly on the basis of the provisions of the Regulation, he fully continued to participate in the work of the Network already as a JUŁ and complete his tasks by having knowledge of all the activities and decisions of the Network taken prior to that date. In view of the need for the President of the UOKiK to start work immediately, to participate in the work of the network, the date of entry into force of the rule governing it, i.e. Article 2 2 of the proposed law, was determined at the date following the date of publication of the law. During the remaining period, the draft law will enter into force later. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I request the adoption of the bill presented and further work on it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u659	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Azievicz, the Civic Coalition, now has a voice. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u660	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Committee on Economics and Development on the Government's draft law amending the Law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems, print no. 1079. Control of products subject to conformity assessment is a very important process for both consumers and traders. One of its main objectives is to ensure that only products meeting certain requirements are placed on the Union market, regardless of where they were manufactured. This protects consumers from products that may pose a risk to life, health or the environment. The conformity assessment system also protects the interests of businesses, restricts unfair competition, is one of the cornerstones of the common market. Uniform product requirements and a common market surveillance system provide the basis for the free movement of goods. The mechanism for protecting consumers and businesses is still being improved. That Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on market surveillance and product conformity has already established a European Product Compliance Network, to which the single liaison offices designated by the Member States will be members. The essence of the submitted project is the identification of the entity that will represent our country in the mentioned network. On 26 April this year. The government inter-ministerial team for the reform of conformity assessment and market surveillance systems has adopted a recommendation that the tasks of a single liaison office in Poland should be entrusted to the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection as the most appropriate in view of the role he plays in the national market surveillance system and the experience and competence gained in carrying out tasks at European level. It provides the best guarantee that the national market surveillance strategy required by that Regulation is to be drawn up. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development considered this draft at its meeting on 13 April. The amendments adopted were legislative in nature, not controversial. When asked to secure funding for the additional tasks of the President of the OOKiK, I heard that they would be carried out within the framework of the Office's resources, without additional costs for the state budget. The Commission supported the proposed proposal by a majority. On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I request that her report be adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u661	Thank you very much. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u662	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a project, I think, expected by Polish entrepreneurs and not only. We are dealing with the implementation of the 2019 European Parliament and Council of Europe Regulation, which entered into force on 15 July 2019. It is not an extensive pact, but it contains very concrete and contains all that it should contain in the framework of unification with the European market and the good functioning of our Polish producers, importers, exporters on the European market. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The 29th Regulation established the EU Network for the Environment and Rural Development. Product conformity. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 10 a single liaison office has been established. In our case, it is the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. According to the Left Club, this is, of course, a very good choice. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 13 refers to the national market surveillance strategy required by the European Union, with the details set out in Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. The Left Club supports this project because we are aware that the number of notifications in different Member States is constantly increasing. It's getting more and more complicated and it's getting out of control. This solution will make it possible to comprehensively grasp this, bring additional benefits precisely by promoting compliance, but also by detecting non-conformity of goods and providing advice on harmonisation legislation and specific categories of products offered for online sale. Our doubts arise only at a pace, because the terms speak for themselves. The European Commission asked Member States in March to designate a body to act as a single liaison office from 16 July 2021 and imposed a deadline until 30 June 2020. Here, respect for the above mentioned Interministerial Group for the reform of conformity assessment and market surveillance, because at a very rapid pace, within a few weeks, he identified the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection as a body performing this function. Then the time stairs began. It was not until August 2020 that the bill was drawn up, published in the BIP of the Government Legislative Centre. It should also be noted that no one had any comment on this. There was a lot of time, and we're not taking it until April. Probably nothing big has happened, but the President of the Consumer Protection Office, as a single liaison office, has been able to act since the beginning of this year before it has been formalised. As I say, from the Left's point of view, it had to be done because the case was not complicated. This had to be done much earlier, probably at the end of last year, but better now than later or never. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u663	Thank you. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u664	Good afternoon, good evening. This law is, in turn, proof not only that we are not an independent country - we are implementing another order from Brussels - but also that the European Union has nothing to do with the free market. The European Union is a market that is carefully supervised by officials, cheepers, pimps, free eaters. The European Union is an over-regulated Eurokolchoz in which everything is to be the same according to the standards dictated by officials by lobbyists who bring them gifts. Everything has to be unified. So officials have to discuss where to stick their fingers all the time, what else to spoil. That is why we need a delegation of office, which, on our behalf, will rule on what is right and what is wrong, within a single liaison office. I draw attention to the fact that the European Union has two conflicting objectives: uniformity and innovation. It is probably very clear that the implementation of standards and regulations everywhere hampers innovation, because the need to comply with standards clearly makes it difficult to introduce new solutions, innovation. It is clear that some of the standards in the future will prove necessary to break down to introduce some innovative product. The unfortunate innovator will therefore have a problem, e.g. with approval. But it is not only that innovation is risky in itself, because most innovation carries the risk that it will not succeed at all, but it is the infinite litany of bureaucratic requirements that make the potential inventor have to bear the risk that the invention will not comply with the existing standards, because it is not in those standards, surprisingly, foreseen. That is why the Union is not and will not be innovative, although it is truly super-innovative according to its own indicators - because the European Union has also invented its own bureaucratic ways of measuring innovation in the economy, so made to fit their own needs. Hence, of course, we will be the self-proclaimed capital of standardized modernity. The European Union is not a consumer market, it is not a producer market. The European Union is an official market. In this market, the official is to be pleased, and now it will certainly be more satisfied with the single liaison office holding the unbridled supervision of the over-bridled market. But who's gonna oversee the officials? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u665	Five Members have asked questions. Mr Tchórzewski, the Law and Justice are the first questions to be asked by Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski. I'm closing the list of questions to be asked. Question time - half a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u666	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Please explain the reasons why the government has decided to refer the power of participation of the municipality and the product compliance network and to act as a single liaison office for the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. Should it not be a government body with ministerial powers, as conformity assessment [[♪ The bell ♪]] and market surveillance is a very important role not only in regulatory but also in the economic role. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u667	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u668	I wanted to ask, because there will be a lot of online commerce here, what the average Pole will have with the permission of a mysterious client. Will we have specialists in this field for the Internet? I am also referring to dangerous products, namely RAPEX. How the contact point of information exchange will work and what benefits they will benefit from it, because companies will definitely. Will individuals have and what benefits (the bell)? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u669	Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u670	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The document submitted to the Members states, and I quote: 28 April 2020. The Interministerial Group for the reform of conformity assessment and market surveillance systems adopted a recommendation to the Council of Ministers in the form of a resolution to entrust the tasks of a single liaison office to the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. Let me remind you that the rules on setting up a network...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u671	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u672	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask and ask for a written reply about the certification schemes that will accompany this law and this project. These certification systems are extremely important, among others. because they can reduce counterfeit trade and become part of building a certain responsibility in trade. I would like to know if there was any consultation, if so, to what extent, or was there also information that consumers could report? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u673	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I ask for your answer from the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Mrs Olga Semenuk. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u674	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! To answer questions, starting with the first question asked by Mr Tchórzewski, the President of the UOKiK has special competence, he is a coordinating and controlling body, and there is no need to create a separate proxy position for this function. We also consulted with the UOKiK on this issue, he agreed during the pandemic, the more appropriate it is not to create further posts. With regard to the second question, of course, this is mainly the case for natural persons who, within the framework of the adopted single liaison office, will have the possibility of securing and security arising from controls mainly of goods. The third question didn't come up. As regards the fourth question relating to the certification system, although returning to the third question, I understand that it is time and that the Member who asked the question meant temporal continuity, it was preserved, we kept all the deadlines. Other European countries are also in the process of implementing this. And the fourth question was about the certification system. The consultation, of course, took place with all stakeholders involved in the trialogue. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u675	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the course of voting. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Law on the Treatment of Persons with Mental Disorders that pose a threat to the life, health or sexual freedom of other persons (prints Nos 1071 and 1076). I ask Mr Krzysztof July to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir. We wait impatiently.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u676	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I would like to present a report on the draft parliamentary law amending the law on the conduct of persons with mental disorders presenting a threat to the life, health or sexual freedom of others. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 9 April 2021, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for first reading. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, following its first reading and the examination of the draft law at its meeting on 13 April, asks the High Sejm to adopt a draft law from print no. 1076. At the same time, the Committee on Justice and Human Rights shall, at the request of the applicant, submit a request from a minority to that effect in Article. 2 (2) 3 add the second sentence as follows: It is unacceptable to provide a security by placing the person concerned at the National Dissocial Prevention Centre. It should be stressed that this project concerns the introduction of legal solutions that allow for the admission of persons who pose a risk of life, health or sexual freedom of others to the National Centre for the Prevention of Dissociative Behaviours in Gostynin until the planned extension is completed and adequate staff are provided to carry out those tasks which the Centres have been entrusted with. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u677	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Mariusz Gosek, Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u678	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club regarding the draft law amending the Law on the Treatment of Persons with Mental Disorder that pose a threat to the life, health or sexual freedom of others. President Krzysztof July has already pointed out what this project is about. It's late. I don't want to say it again. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights held a meeting on 13 April. The committee was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Justice, who explained in detail all the doubts raised during the meeting of the committee. Finally, a vote took place whereby the majority of Members, members of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, supported this bill. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I kindly predestinate this draft for adoption and ask the High Sejm to approve the draft law attached to the report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u679	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Ms Anna Maria Żukowska filed a motion in writing to reject the bill. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u680	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It's not gonna be like the last point in the tone... That's not good. ...in which I had the pleasure of appreciating the quality of the project that the Ministry of Justice presented. What exposes this project? Minister, first of all, it's been four years on the overcrowded centre in Gostynin and the lack of room for people who should be isolated from society and for whom there was no room. Secondly, the lack of any decision-making, the idea of doing something about it, even though the announcements were almost four years ago. This project also exposes the chaos of competence, who is to continue to run this type of facility. You're boxing with the Ministry of Health. Nomen omen Minister Niedzielski, as this center was created, worked at the Ministry of Justice, from what I had already figured out. But that doesn't bode well either. The charges, the doubts, the explanation of what was going on at this facility... At the moment, there are nearly twice as many inmates there as it should be, so from all this, there is a grim picture of how you have managed this center in recent years. We really need to focus on how to settle this case today. Of course, something must be done at this point in time. We as a club, of course, lean down with concern for this problem. I think we're gonna be working on that, analyzing those records. But I think that, first of all, the department has a responsibility to make up for the four lost years that have been a little squandered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u681	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u682	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In the justification of the project, we find these words: the proposed amendments will allow temporary secondment to the work of Prison Service officers, to work in the centre in Gostynin. Immediately, doubts arose in the Parliamentary Railway Poland 2050, because we cannot be sure of honesty and good intentions, because we have not seen them for a long time. A poisoned tree - in these words, people who know the whole matter determine the problem of the center in Gostynin. That is why we also propose here, in the plenary room and in the committee's meeting, that, however, this act should state that it is unacceptable to provide security by placing the person concerned in the National Centre for the Prevention of Dissocial Behaviour. Concerns, and not only Members of our circle, the judicial practice of certain civil courts, which apply in non-trial proceedings under the amended law procedural safeguards in the form of placing in this centre. Unfortunately, such practice has not been completely abandoned. After all, the Civil Chamber of the Supreme Court issued a resolution to limit pathology, i.e. to lock people in Gostynin under protection, once again, in civil proceedings. We propose to include in the law the basic thesis of this right resolution limiting this pathology. We believe that it is necessary to state that the increased funds allocated under this amendment to the national centre in Gostynin will not be used to increase the number of patients, but merely to improve the dramatic, inhumane conditions that prevail in Gostynin. We believe in the adoption of this minority proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u683	Thank you. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u684	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The National Centre for the Prevention of Dissocial Behaviour in Gostynin has aroused various kinds of emotions for years. Several years ago, 28 September 2018, at the convention of the cathedral of criminal law and criminology at the Faculty of Law at the Higher School of Law and Administration in Rzeszów Prof. Monika Płatek quoted fragments of letters of people who are in Gostynin: we beg for help, this center is not therapy, this camp, I no longer have the strength. Gostynin is a place where people who have been imprisoned for an unlimited period of time and have committed no new crime. They're incarcerated here by a civil court that believes they pose a threat. They're locked up for unlimited time in a place that they describe themselves as, quote, a concentration camp worse than a prison. Ladies and gentlemen, for many years, the Ombudsman's Office, Prof. Adam Bodnar, has called for an urgent amendment to the Act, which allows people who pose a threat to the centre in Gostynin. For many years, the Ombudsman has identified many gaps affecting the effectiveness of actions towards these people and their rights and rules of residence at the centre. To date, no legislative initiative has been taken to amend this law comprehensively. There was a chance. But, ladies and gentlemen, this opportunity has not been taken advantage of. In fact, what has now been presented as a parliamentary project is a kind of drip in a situation where 93 people are in the center at the moment, and in fact 60 places have been created in this facility. There is a prospect of development, development of Gostynin, but on the other hand we are dealing with a medicinal entity, we are dealing with an entity which was primarily intended to perform a therapeutic function towards people there, patients who pose a threat to themselves and to society above all. I will ask questions to the Minister because he is the Minister, I understand, Woś, but in fact the Minister of Health should answer us what the situation of the Centre is right now. I'm going to ask, "Are those of the Prison Service's organizational unit to the real estate centre already selected, because that's also the way the contract is signed? Will such a new place granted by the Prison Service have the status of the subsidiary referred to in the Order of the Minister of Health of 5 March 2021? Who will decide to transport a particular patient from the facility to a building borrowed from the Prison Service? Is it assumed that this will immediately increase the number of patients in the centre in order to ensure compliance with the Health Minister's regulation of 14 January 2014? What rules will apply in such a place, and who will guide them? Has the issue of organizing the entire therapeutic facilities been considered in order to be able to implement the therapeutic programme provided for in the Act in practice? I would like to draw attention to the number of individual categories of staff per 10 persons placed in the centre. Who will prepare opinions for the court every 6 months for those placed in this new place who will decide on the need for a further stay in the centre? For the centre in Gostynin, this competent court is the District Court in Płock. What will be the financial medical care for people placed in a building borrowed from the Prison Service? I would like these questions to find concrete answers today. As regards also (the bell) to the replies given, the Civic Coalition will decide on the future fate of the project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u685	Thank you. Six Members have asked questions. I'm closing the list of questions to be asked. I'm setting the question time for half a minute. As the first Mr Michael Szczerba. I'll quit. You've asked a question, haven't you? Yes, thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń? There's no envoy. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski. There isn't any either. Mr Zdzisław Wolski? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u686	It's an extremely bleak subject. We're talking about a hybrid hospital and a prison. There's no way there's any rehabilitation or therapy. The assumptions were that it should be. There's no wonder the headmaster of the facility, the experts, the courts don't want to take responsibility for letting these people go free. I have a question about why this wasn't discussed in the Health Committee, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why didn't the Ombudsman give his opinion?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u687	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u688	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Changes in the law on dealing with persons for mental disorders that pose a threat to the life, health or sexual freedom of others are unfortunately a legal issue. For many years nothing has been done on the bill, and now after night it is proposed to pass it without proper consultation. I would like to ask you where the long-standing negligence in this case is coming from and what steps the Ministry has taken to provide therapeutic programmes for the facility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u689	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u690	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Let's get right to it. Minister, why are there people in Gostynin who require psychiatric treatment even though the facility is not a suitable place for this type of person? Why aren't these people in psychiatric hospitals? Why has the Constitutional Court still not delivered a judgment on the number of psychiatrists in charge of this centre? Why has this particular type of facility not been used for western countries, where similar facilities have been in operation successfully for years? Why has it been going on for years between the Minister of Health (The Bell) and the Ministry of Justice... Thank you very much. ...about who's gonna solve these problems? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u691	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Michał Woś, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u692	Thank you kindly. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Many times in the committee it was explained that this project and the initiative of applicants is a kind of drip or acceleration of work related to the decision to expand the centre. In order to expand the center, you need, you can say, three fundamental things. The first is the provision of funding and this law at this relevant point in the Mother's Law provides adequate funding for the base year and subsequent year. Then provide a backup center, a building where you can just drive. Here the agreement has been made that this facility will lend, because it has it in its resources, the Prison Service, and such talks in this regard between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health are conducted in a wide manner. The third point is to provide protection for a transitional period, namely until the centre in Gostynin or the head of the centre does not provide security services. Then the Prison Service officers will be able to carry out the function of security services from medical laws, health laws, the law on the national centre. It must be said that in this respect these solutions are solutions which were already in the Act in 2013, which entered into force in 2014. These solutions were subject to a constitutional test - the Constitutional Tribunal ruled in 2016 on the full compatibility of these solutions with the Constitution. Indeed, the head or head of the centre is the Minister of Health to the full extent. This law does not apply to specific solutions, although they are developed and the government is implementing, or has taken, a legislative initiative in this area so that all the requested issues relating to the activity of the Centre are shifted from ground to legislative ground, to normative ground. On the other hand, this draft from today's agenda is about the issues that I have just said. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u693	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a motion was made to reject the draft law in its entirety. I propose that the Sejm do not refer this bill back to the committee. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government draft law amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes and certain other laws (prints Nos 1072 and 1077). I ask Mrs Teresa Pamula to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u694	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was honoured to present the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government bill amending the Payment Act under the direct support scheme and some other laws, print No 1072. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 12 April 2021, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for first reading. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 13 April 2021, asks the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u695	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item he would listen to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Frederick Kapinos, Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u696	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the Government draft law amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes and certain other laws, print No 1072. The proposed law provides for the introduction of a number of solutions under the direct support scheme and under the RDP. The project envisages amending the Payment Act under the direct support scheme, the national producer registration system, the farm records and the records of payment applications, support for rural development with the contribution of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development in the framework of the RDPs for the period 2007 to 2013 and 2014 to 2020. The amendments made by Implementing Regulation 2021/540 of the Commission of the European Union of 26 March 2021 amending Implementing Regulation No 809/2014 make it necessary to adapt national provisions to them. In accordance with the provisions of the Regulation referred to above, provisions setting a deadline for the submission of applications for direct payments and certain measures within the framework of the RDPs and laying down a deadline for the submission of amendments to those applications shall be deleted from 2021. Member States were required to establish the abovementioned. time limits. In the proposal submitted to the High Chamber, it is proposed to maintain the current deadline, i.e. May 31 of the year concerned. This concerns amendments to the proposal. In addition, the draft law provides for delegations to the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development to extend the deadline for submitting applications and to amend applications in the event of circumstances which prevent farmers from submitting these documents within the basic time limits, such as. flood, drought, frosts, etc. Further favourable solutions proposed in the bill include: take into account the possibility of using photos taken and transmitted by the website in administrative proceedings using the application made available by ARiMR. Add a provision allowing publication by means of a notice of a list of varieties of fibre hemp which are not eligible for direct payments. They will apply if the THC content of fibre hemp is exceeded. The Act on the national system of producer records, farm records and payment application records proposes solutions to allow the President of the ARiMR to make available free of charge spatial data from the agricultural parcel identification system and the integrated control system for research, environmental and statistical purposes. The draft law also provides for amendments to the Rural Development Support Act with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the RDPs for the period 2014 to 2020 to simplify the procedure for the selection of operations and other documents by introducing, in addition to the written form, the possibility of submitting the above mentioned. applications and other documents also by electronic means. Repeal of rules excluding the possibility of re-establishing time limits for RDP activities which, at the current stage of implementation of the programme, hamper the management of RDP financial resources due to the ongoing epidemic situation. In conclusion, it should be noted that the draft law must be urgently examined, as farmers should benefit from the provisions laid down therein as part of the ongoing selection campaign. Moreover, since the draft law contains provisions on the setting of a deadline for amending the direct payment application in the framework of the ongoing 2021 campaign, set at 31 May, the law should enter into force before that date. The absence of national rules in this respect would mean that the rules on the deadline for amending applications would cease to function. However, the draft law could not have been previously addressed to parliamentary work since the implementing regulation of Commission 2021/540 of 26 March 2021 was not published until 29 March 2021. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the draft in print 1072 submitted to the High House. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u697	Mr Romuald Aichler, the Left Club. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u698	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! On behalf of the United Left Club, I present the position of the Club on the Act in print 1072, as well as 1077 concerning the Act in the framework of direct support in agriculture. High Izbo! The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development considered the draft law at first reading yesterday, or actually, Mr. Marshal, the day before yesterday, without any amendments, and recommended that the Sejm adopt the draft law. There was only one Member who abstained during the vote. High Seym! The essence of the solutions envisaged in the project is to adapt the payment rules to the European Union's rules. It is a law, to be exact, technical and does not bring any financial resources to the Polish village. It would be worth asking when payments to Polish farmers will be equal to payments to farmers so-called. an old European Union. Year after year, and you can't hear much about equalizing payments. This draft law does not arouse much interest in the countryside. Farmers in such a difficult situation during the pandemic period are counting on the government to look at agriculture differently and meet its expectations, and they do not want much. They want to be treated evenly like the neighbors they came to compete with. High Seym! I am aware that the issue I am talking about is not the subject of today's debate. Such a conversation should be held in the High House in connection with the point on the current economic situation of Polish agriculture. However, I am aware that the introduction of laws, which are only technical laws, will not improve much in the Polish village. The same is true of the law discussed today. However, the Left Club will support this project, as the European Commission requires it to do so. The rules in force in the European Union require the Polish side to adapt the existing rules, hence such solutions. High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! The Left will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u699	Thank you very much. No questions. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Ms Anna Gembicka, will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u700	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As has already been said, the draft of this law is largely a technical project, mainly to bring national legislation into line with EU requirements. The most important change here is the question just setting a deadline for changes to the application for direct payments or under certain actions relating to the Rural Development Programme. As has already been said here, with regard to the deadline for the procedure of this law, unfortunately we were bound by a deadline for publication by EU bodies which allows Member States to set these deadlines on their own, so I am very pleased that at this meeting of the Sejm we were able to examine this project. As regards the issues which arose during the work of the committee and which aroused quite a lot of interest, in relation to this provision concerning the publication by means of a notice of a list of varieties of fibre hemp which are not eligible for direct payments, I would just like to stress here that, regardless of our law, these provisions still apply directly because they are regulations at Union level and for all Member States, this authorised content is determined in the same way. I would like to clarify this, because within the committee there have been some contradictions that Poland has some more restrictive standards... Member, but we are not at the committee meeting. This is a plenary session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Anna Gembicka: So that here I would just like to clarify that. Again, thank you very much for letting us review this bill in such a way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u701	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the Foreign Affairs Committee's report on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area (prints 1031 and 1083). I would like to ask Mr Mark to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u702	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I have the honour to present a report on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area, print No 1031. The Republic of Croatia became a member of the European Union on 1 July 2013. It should then also become a party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area. That's not what happened. The negotiations ended a year later. There was therefore a need to ratify this agreement, which, by the way, brings many benefits to EU countries in areas such as social policy, consumer protection, the environment or tourism, as well as participation in research and education programmes. Conclusion of the agreement has no direct effect on the Polish legal system. A draft of this law was discussed at the committee meeting of the day before yesterday, which raises no doubt. It was unanimously adopted by the Commission and therefore, on behalf of the committee, I request the adoption of a proposal for a law allowing ratification of this agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u703	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. First, Mr Radosław Fogiel, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u704	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law, through which the Sejm will decide to ratify the international agreement, is the consequence of Croatia's accession to the European Union. Croatia's participation in the European Economic Area is also the result of this accession. The essential part of this Agreement shall adapt the Agreement on the European Economic Area to the enlargement of the European Economic Area in accordance with the Treaty on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The changes are mainly of a technical nature, the adaptation of transitional periods agreed during Croatia's accession negotiations to the EU. As the applicant mentioned, despite the lack of ratification by several EU countries, the agreement has been applied practically since signature. It will enter into force officially after the ratification process has been completed by all Member States. The conclusion of this agreement will not have direct consequences for the Polish legal system or cause the need to change Polish legislation. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, it is my pleasure to say that we fully support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u705	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Kowal, Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Mr Andrzej Szejna, the club of the Left. Mr Władysław Bartoszewski, remotely. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u706	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It is a bit of a curiosity situation that at hours. 1.40 a.m. we are discussing ratification of the agreement concerning the Republic of Croatia and the EFTA, which in fact operates without ratification since 2014. The meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committee, just a little over a day ago, was attended by 22 members, and everyone absolutely agreed. The only question we have, Mr. Marshal, is why we have been waiting for this agreement to be ratified for seven years. This is an agreement that does not de facto affect anything, because when it comes to financial flows, it is at the level of EUR 103 million, i.e. at the level of not very high sums, and when it comes to very important matters, the fish issue, it is at the level of 1 000. Following subcutaneous or intravenous administration, following subcutaneous administration has been reported. It's not, Mr. Marshal, with all due respect, crazy important, and yet this deal has been held for seven years. It's psychic. Of course, my club, like all other clubs and circles, supports this deal. It needs to be ratified because why we've waited seven years, no one knows. We asked two vice-ministers who said they didn't know either, and they're gonna give us an answer in writing. And I expect it very much. Mr. Marshal! I won't take any more time. We are absolutely in favour of ratifying this agreement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u707	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krystian Kaminski from the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u708	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law on ratification of the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area is, of course, valid and hardly anybody had any doubts. That we should ratify her. However, what is important, Poland is located at the confluence of two bridges: the Baltic-Black Sea Bridge... At present there are naturally problems in the Black Sea, which unfortunately we did not talk about in the Seym, but rather we should discuss this, for example in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. But it is also at the confluence of the second bridge, the Baltic-Adrian bridge, and we should be able to use our position in this respect. As mentioned earlier, we waited 7 years to ratify this agreement, recognizing it as not important, but the Germans already signed this agreement 5 years ago, knowing that the Baltic-Adrian bridge was important, and wanting to have good relations with Croatia. So that I believe that we should ratify this agreement as soon as possible and use our position within these bridges as soon as possible. The question is, why are we ratifying this agreement so late... The Ministry of Foreign Affairs underestimated her, claiming that she was invalid, and on the question of why, for example. France, Portugal, Italy or Sweden have not ratified this agreement either, and they have not been able to answer us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u709	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Kowal, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u710	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It seems that the discussion of ratification of this agreement can be almost boring, formal for some. We can say that we have waited too long for this moment of ratification, we can say that it is in fact a formality. But we can also take the opportunity to recall in every kind of ratification which concerns the widely understood European community the importance of such agreements. They concern the most important things that apply to every citizen who is listening to us now: freedom of movement of people, capital, goods, services, freedom, standards of the rule of law, standards of legal certainty for all citizens: for those who want to do business in Croatia, for those who want to swim on the sea and find themselves in some difficult situation, for those who want to do business. In these difficult and seemingly boring pieces of legislation, one can say: boring, tedious and grumpy, the very essence of what states that there is no war in Europe today, that people have the opportunity without barriers, without nationalism, without being subjected to tight populism in their own countries to find opportunities for economic development, cultural development, travel. Finally, if they find themselves in some kind of oppression, they have the opportunity to find an appropriate legal standard elsewhere in Europe. This is the essence of the discussion we are discussing on the ratification of further agreements to ensure that further countries enter the European Economic Area. I think that each of these discussions should be an opportunity for us to reflect on the essence of our presence in the European Union, on the essence of our relations with other countries, and more broadly on those countries that are in the European Economic Area. I am not going to talk about the fact that we support this ratification because it is obvious. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much, sir. I will only talk about the fact that all this matters for our future as a state, but also for the good of every citizen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u711	Two Members have asked questions. Please, Mr Stanisław Suchoń. There's no envoy. Mr Marek Grunkles. Please ask me to ask you a question. Half a minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u712	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I see the Minister has entered the courtroom, so I want to ask you what all the members of the committee have been doing, which is a delay of seven years. Although the minister in the committee said that it did not matter because the agreement was still applied at the most important points, he undertook to give a detailed answer to this question. So if you know, I'm asking for an answer, and if you don't, I'm asking for a written reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u713	Thank you very much. Does the Minister know? No. In writing, then. Now the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology... It's about the delay, isn't it? Yes. I can say a few words. You're welcome. Minister Robert Tomanek, Undersecretary of State.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u714	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We've already done a preliminary examination. There was no delay, no delay, simply an agreement concluded between the European Union and the EFTA has been applied provisionally. It took several months to negotiate this agreement. Since it was used, no one actually demanded further steps. The bureaucratic mills in different countries differed and functioned in different ways, the summa summarum is today such that 10 Member States have not yet ratified - Cyprus, France, Greece, Ireland, Luxembourg, Malta, Poland, Slovenia, Sweden and Italy, and several countries have ratified this last year and 2021 - the Netherlands, Denmark and Portugal. We will, of course, respond in writing, but I believe that simply the lack of need, the current cases and procedures in each country have led to the fact that this agreement has not come to ratification. On the other hand, there is no question of any delay or second day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u715	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 14 April 2021. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I consider the list of Members who have been made to make statements to be closed. Mr Krystian Kaminski, Confederation, will be the first to make a statement. You're welcome. Three minutes, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u716	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to draw attention to the need to amend the law on the remediation of landfills. The current rules allow such projects to be carried out without the voice of representatives of municipalities and local communities in the decision-making chain, which often leads to pathological situations. An example of this is the district of Nowosolski situated in the area of my voivodship. Two landfills are currently being rehabilitated in its territory: in Bobrniki and Mirocina Dolny. In fact, the rehabilitation of these landfills is to put garbage in the garbage and cover them with a small layer of soil. E.g. in Bobrovniks the proportion in the case of a 2-meter so-called. The rehabilitation cover is as follows: 1,90 One inch of garbage and one inch of hummus. Of course, the Civic Coalition, which ruled in the Seym of the Voivodeship, gave its consent to such a curiosity solution. It is also worth mentioning in this respect that these works are carried out by small companies from o.o. In both situations, and in many similar situations, because such cases occur throughout the country, the risks associated with such investments at the end are borne by the local government and its residents, who are not previously taken into account in the decision-making process. Therefore, both residents and representatives of municipalities should have a greater impact on how landfills in their area are being rehabilitated. I would therefore like to make proposals for amendments to the law which will give the local authorities the lowest level of opportunity to co-decide on the direction of the rehabilitation work being carried out. These proposals came from representatives of the local local local government unit from the district of Novosol, and are the following: the admission of the mayor, mayor or president of the city competent for the place of waste collection or treatment as a party to proceedings both in the proceedings concerning the closure of landfill and remediation and in the treatment and collection of waste, the addition of a provision setting out the competence of the regional marshal to authorise the collection and treatment of waste in the case of decisions to close the recycling of landfills with the use of waste, the introduction of a public consultation with residents before the decision on the closure and remediation of waste, the repeal of the amendment with the consequence of the authorisation as a party to the proceedings of the general government, the mayor or the president of the city competent for the place of waste collection or treatment, the definition of the specific competences of the regional marshal, the old town, the environmental inspector for the carrying out of checks and the introduction of the obligation to provide for the protection of claims in order to cover the replacement costs also with regard to the management of the landfill - by amending Article. 48a bill. That's what the Confederate project will do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u717	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u718	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It was once said that a great story is made up of ordinary, small people, and these great people just stand out in the crowd. In the context of this statement, the word "mali" becomes a completely different, opposite meaning. The panteon of piotrkowian, those ordinary little people who during World War II fulfilled their duty to their homeland, and of which it is worth remembering and worth remembering, is large. The representative of this generation was Tadeusz Nowarski, whose next anniversary of death was a few days ago. Tadeusz Nowarski was born in Piotrków in 1907 in a family with patriotic roots. His father was an officer, a doctor in the Polish Legions. He himself joined the army after several years of his studies in junior high school, finishing in 1935. Initially he taught pilot candidates, and 3 years later he was assigned to the 2nd Air Force to the 24th Line Squadron in Kraków. In the September campaign, the German XVI Armoured Corps was attacked by the bomb squad under Radomsk and Częstochowa. On September 15, 1939, he undertook a mission to deliver the chief commander's orders from the area of Dubno by plane to the defending Warsaw. This task, with the total advantage of Germans in the air, was practically suicidal. Not only did Nowarski deliver his orders, but he also managed to return to the so-called area. Romanian foreman. Along with many soldiers after the September defeat, he went on an emigration vagabond in search of the possibility of continuing the fight. In 1940, he began serving in the British 609th RAF division. His English colleagues, unable to pronounce his name correctly, simply called him "Novi. " He was one of the few Churchill spoke of in the battle for England. He was praised and liked by his colleagues. Two German fighter planes were shot down on 13 August 1940. From 1942 he served in the Polish Air Force, first as commander of the 308th Hunting Division and later as commander of the entire 2nd Polish Hunting Wing. In 1944, he was sent to the United States and trained American pilots there. The war ended as a colonel. He did not imagine not to return to Poland. So he returned in 1947, and soon later, under fabricated charges, he was accused and arrested by Communists. Fired after a few years, he never went back to flying. He was a professional, ran a locksmith shop and worked as a taxi driver. He left memories that are still waiting to be published. He died on 2 April 1983 and is buried in the cemetery of Powęzkowski. One of many, out of hundreds, out of thousands. A hero? No, an ordinary man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u719	Thank you. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u720	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A child who has graduated from primary school is an unformed personality ready to accept the knowledge that will be the basis for his future life. The next stage of education is a general education school or a technique to which she attends for 4 or 5 years. During this period he writes hundreds of tests and gives dozens of exams he has to prepare himself for. This period shall end with a maturity test which shall be considered the most important exam in life. Then she starts her studies, which last from 4 to 6 years. After our studies, we have a professional person who we can additionally direct to an annual practice in some serious enterprise. The studios are another colocution, semester work and exams that our hero has to pass on his own. In this way, after 11 years, we have an educated professional prepared to play a leading role and take up the professional challenges at the highest level. The same, or 11 years, took Antoni Macierewicz, who had been at the disposal of all 36 million-million-dollar special forces and a multi-million-dollar budget for international research, to prepare, or actually not to prepare one document describing the disaster, for which two detailed reports on two investigations were prepared. After 11 years, the head of the Smolensk subcommittee declares that his report requires editorial corrections. I would like to ask you very kindly, Mr Kaczyński, for personal intervention in this matter. It is no longer about the good name of our country in the international arena, because Mr Antoni has already tarnished this name in an amazing way. It is, Mr President, about preserving the dignity of the victims of this tragic accident and respecting the grieving families. Mr. President Kaczyński! Prime Minister Kaczyński! Please stop this charade. And it's not just my call. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-sejm-28-1.u721	That concludes our parliamentary statements. I am ordering an adjournment until tomorrow, so to this day, until 15 April 2021 until 3 p.m. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 2]]
