ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that today there will be a meeting of the Committee on Public Finance - immediately after the end of the votes, i.e. about an hour. 19.20. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u2	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a brief announcement. At the meeting of the Bureau and the Senior Convention, we agreed that during the plenary sitting in the Chamber, the State would be wearing masks, but if anyone spoke from the speaker, the mask, if he wanted to, would be able to take it off. Now I'm going to ask you to stand up. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] High Izbo! On 31 August, Roman Malinowski, Vice President of the Council of Ministers and Marshal of the Sejm, died in 1985 and 1989. Let's celebrate his memory with a moment of silence. [[A moment of silence]] [[Voice from the hall: Eternal rest give him, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[Voice from the hall: May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[Members: Amen.]] Thank you very much. The President of the Republic of Poland submitted a regulation on the introduction of a state of emergency in the area of part of Podlaskie Voivodship and part of Lublin Voivodship, print No 1512. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point including the review of this Regulation. In this case, I propose that the Sejm listen to ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We're coming... There are formal requests. Mr Mirosław Suchoń - a formal proposal. You have one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u3	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to request an adjournment on the basis of an article. Paragraph 184. Point 3 (1) is because there has been a very large negligence on the part of the government. Together with the President's regulation, which is under discussion, a law should be passed to the High House, which would constitute a pro-economic shield for those who are locked in an area covered by this emergency state, regardless of what we think of it. The government must not forget that people are the most important, and the government of Law and Justice today forgot that there are people locked up there who are the most important, forgot about those people who live from tourism. We have canceled reservations, canceled trips, closed gastronomy. You've deprived the people of your income and left them with this problem alone today. [[Sit down, Mirek. Sit down.]] Movement Poland 2050 already last week presented concrete solutions, a way for direct support. All you had to do was take it, take it under the bill. You didn't do it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Explain to the Poles why you left these people alone. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Mr... Mrs. Marshal! I'm filing for an adjournment until the government delivers an appropriate bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u4	Mr. Speaker! I just want to tell you that based on the article. 231 Constitution of the Republic of Poland: The regulation on the introduction of martial law or exceptional law is presented by the President of the Republic to the Sejm within 48 hours of the signature of the regulation. The Sejm shall immediately examine the order of the President of the Republic. The Sejm may repeal them by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. Thank you, sir. [[Of course, Your Marshal, but the bill could also have been prepared.]] Thank you very much, sir. You know it's being prepared by regulation, not by law. Thank you, sir. [[Voice from the room: Constitution.]] [[But you didn't understand what he was saying.]] Formal proposal - Mr Jan Szopiński, Left. Please. [[Voice from the room: There was a formal request.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u5	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have a historic debate ahead of us. A debate that has not yet been held in this Seym. Debate on the introduction of a state of emergency. Many Poles ask what are the real reasons for this state. What are the real reasons that the rulers want there to be no journalists at the border, that there should not be those who wish our country well. [[Voice from the room: Franek.]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Sejm Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the subcommittee visited the borders and then both Minister Wąsik and the Head of the Border Guard did not talk about any threats. [[That wasn't true.]] [[Voice from the room: There were some. That's not true.]] I am bringing in on behalf of the Left Club, so that all those who wish to speak in this Chamber today may have an opportunity to speak. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What is planned here is a limitation of Members' rights and responsibilities - that only a few Members will be able to speak. Once again, I appeal to your marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u6	Thank you, sir. Mr President, this was not a formal proposal. Because there was a formal request for a break, without a vote, I'm running a two-minute break. [[Applause]] [[...resumption, right?]] [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 min. 42 hours 16 min 44]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed to the examination of item 36 of the agenda: Review of the Regulation of the President of the Republic of Poland of 2 September 2021 on the introduction of a state of emergency in the area of part of the Podlaskie voivodship and part of the Lublin voivodship (print No 1512). I ask the Secretary of State at President Paul Soloch's office to present a regulation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u7	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House a regulation of the President of the Republic of Poland of 2 September 2021 on the introduction of a state of emergency in the area of part of the Podlaskie Voivodeship and part of the Lublin Voivodeship. Allow me to discuss the reasons for the President's request for a regulation, as well as the intentions of the President as to the form and content of the regulation. Of course, the main reason why this regulation was issued is the particular security threat at the Polish-Belarusian border caused primarily by the policy of the Belarusian state. We are dealing with a migration crisis. Our assessments show and we are so convinced that the current situation unfortunately has a very high potential for escalation in a negative direction. This is related to information that relates to the expansion by the Belarusian state structures of migration routes mainly from Middle East countries, as well as estimates of the number of migrants currently residing in Belarus and the potential for growth in this situation. The Modus operandi of the Belarusian authorities makes the assumption that the intention of these actions is to bring about the migration solstice we faced in 2015. As we remember, this has caused not only the humanitarian crisis but also the political crisis in the European Union itself. In other words, we can expect further increases in migratory pressures and therefore the emergence of unpredictable crisis situations. The second element that correlates with the migration crisis is, of course, the Zapad exercises. These exercises have always been aggressive, directed against Western countries. [[Lukashenka is a warm man.]] However, we are concerned that for the first time they will be on such a scale. This is the largest scale since 1991, over 200,000. soldiers. We are also concerned about the fact that they will take place near the Polish border. We're talking about practice areas, about fields within a dozen to several dozen kilometers. Some Russian and Belarusian soldiers will practice on the kind of ground we have near Brest. The culmination of these exercises will be between September 10th and 16th. Let me remind you that the exercises themselves, the preparation for them, the elements of these exercises have been conducted practically since the beginning of June. Both Polish and allied services have for a long time had information indicating that the scenarios for these exercises also include the destabilisation of the situation on our eastern border. It's kind of what we're dealing with. This may have consequences not only for our country's security, but also for the entire region, and hence for Europe. We see correlations between the migratory crisis and the Zapad exercises. Given that both Belarus and Russia have significant potential in terms of escalation - not only migration pressures, but also capacity for other provocations - it can be risked that today the level of threat of order at our eastern border could be much greater, the largest since the collapse of the Soviet Union. We all remember the crises connected with the war in Georgia, the aggression against Ukraine. These were strategic threats, but they were far from our borders. For the first time since the collapse of the Soviet Union, let me repeat once again, we are dealing with threats on such a scale. As regards the reaction of the Polish authorities and the President in constant contact with our authorities, I would like to draw attention to the grading of this response to the threat. First of all, it was a counter-aggression of information, which stood at the beginning of the whole operation that we are currently dealing with. Additional officers have been appointed from other Border Guard units. The President has also decided to use the Armed Forces units to support the Border Guard. Measures have also been taken to strengthen border infrastructure, including the construction of a temporary fence. At the same time, our authorities, our state authorities have taken action on the international stage. I will remind you of the declarations and statements made by the presidents of Poland, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia on 23 August, referring to a politically arranged hybrid operation. We wanted to undertake and prepare a unanimous assessment of the situation according to the interpretation that we, border and front countries have in relation to Belarus. I would also like to point out that the seriousness of the risks associated with the migration crisis is borne out, among other things. a debate on the situation at the external border of the European Union with Belarus and the use of the ongoing humanitarian crisis as a hybrid war against the European Union and the Member States. This debate took place on 2 September in the framework of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the European Parliament. We also have the European Commission's communications and NATO Headquarters' position on this issue. As far as the introduction of the state of emergency is concerned, High Izbo, the constitution, obliging the President of the Republic of Poland to uphold the security of the state and the integrity of its territory, entrusts it with measures which in emergency situations allow for the elimination of threats. In accordance with this, the President considered it reasonable to introduce a state of emergency which was presented to him by the Council of Ministers and decided to issue this regulation. Following this decision, there was a constant intention to obtain a prevention effect, but also the ability to react rapidly to unpredictable scenarios that could be implemented at the moment. I would also like to point out that the President's decision was preceded by a series of meetings with representatives of the government, top military commanders, heads of special forces and other uniformed services, which were devoted to this particular issue. The President is aware of the emotional baggage caused by historical connotations, but we have a common conviction with the government that we are dealing with a threat with a super-standard dimension. That is the assessment of the President and the Government. I would also like to point out and point out that neighbouring countries, our allies, such as Lithuania and Latvia, have referred to this kind of legal solution by introducing emergency states at the border with Belarus. In the case of Lithuania, where this threat was the greatest, the Lithuanian Parliament voted, decided to introduce, adopt packages of additional laws which increase the powers of the government and the armed forces during the crisis. As for the intentions of the President, by issuing a regulation, his desire was for the three main objectives to be achieved. The first objective was to ensure conditions for services and all structures responsible for the protection of the state border. The second was to secure citizens and increase citizens' sense of security. Finally, the third condition was to introduce solutions that would meet these first two conditions, but that they should at the same time be as severe as possible for citizens. As far as ensuring service work and border protection is concerned, it was primarily about what I said at the outset, so that preventive action could be taken on the one hand and, on the other hand, to ensure the speed of response and effectiveness of response in the event that there would actually be some escalation in relation to what is currently happening at the border between Poland and Belarus. We are convinced that the President is also convinced that, with the current scale of threats in a dynamically changing situation, the space secured for the operation of officers on the basis of existing regulations before the introduction of the emergency was insufficient. Therefore, the possibility of effective implementation of the actions was decisively limited by the presence, as we could observe in the media, people and bystanders. In recent weeks we have dealt with the escalation of negative events: from unauthorised border interventions through verbal aggression towards officers, Border Guards, soldiers, officers to the destruction of border infrastructure or threats of illegal crossing the state border. Of course, there were also justified humanitarian motives aimed at helping people in need, but in the current situation, while assuming that such situations are being used by the foreign services of countries for hybrid activities to increase chaos and confusion at the border, such actions would lead to a reduction in the efficiency of service operations on the ground. From our point of view, from the point of view of the President, the government, it is unacceptable to force officers to disclose their images in the performance of their tasks, also to attempt to disclose their data, similarly to infiltrate the excessive amount of information related to activities undertaken by the service, which in the present situation should be treated as sensitive information which could be used by hostile services to activities that we have been talking about since the beginning of the few weeks of our discussion, to activities of a hybrid nature. I will remind you that in the case of previous NATO-based exercises this type of activities related to the disclosure of data, image, addresses, telephones of soldiers, officers who participated in such operations, the NATO enemy centers have already taken place. There were text messages with threats, there was information on social media revealing addresses, family photos for psychological influence, intimidation of soldiers taking part in exercises. There is, of course, such a danger. In this case, too. As far as the safety of citizens is concerned, it was particularly important for the President to ensure that the level of security of citizens living in border areas is as high as possible, and not only because of the risks associated with illegal border crossings, the emergence of people whose intentions... Anyone who has dealt with the inhabitants of these areas could hear such voices that these people are not certain of the intentions of people who suddenly appear in an illegal manner. But it was also a threat, on the other hand, from organizations involved in the further movement of these people towards Germany, criminal organisations, often associated with foreign services or those inspired by foreign services. Finally, the rationale for introducing risk-proportional solutions. I would like to point out that, indeed, the President was paying particular attention to this in an intensive consultation with the government here. There are dozens of those limitations that we will find in the emergency rules, in this case the Emergency Act, and in the General Defence Act. The President's decision introduces seven such restrictions. I hope that the vast majority of people in the areas affected by the emergency will not experience such difficulties on a large scale. The first signals are that these limitations are not considered particularly severe in comparison with the increased sense of security at present. High Izbo! Today we are dealing with the concerns of the residents that the situation in border areas may be destabilised. We are also dealing with difficult working conditions of Polish officers, but also with our real concerns about further developments, especially in the context of the culmination of the Zapad exercises, which will take place in the coming days. On these issues, in the opinion of the President, as far as the security of the state, its citizens, is concerned, of course, the utmost support is needed for the action taken. That is why the President hopes that both the reasons for his regulation on the implementation of the emergency state and its content will meet with the understanding and acceptance of the ladies and gentlemen of Members. At this point, I would also like to express my highest appreciation for the work of our officers at the border on behalf of the President. These are not only border guards who have so far guarded our border with Belarus, i.e. border guards from the Podlaskie Border Guard Division, the Nadbużan Border Guard Division (Bell), but they are also other Border Guard officers transferred to this border, they are Polish soldiers, they are also Polish police officers. In fact, they are often in difficult circumstances at this time. I think they deserve the utmost credit on our part. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u8	Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor of the President of the Council of Ministers, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. You're welcome. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Sobolewski stood on the road...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u9	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Today Georgia, tomorrow Ukraine, the day after tomorrow of the Baltic States, and then the time may come for my country, for Poland. Those words of President Lech Kaczyński may have seemed a warning until recently. Today it is clear that they are already becoming a fact that everyone has to deal with. Today we see clearly that in Moscow, Minsk there are scenarios that threaten our sovereignty that threaten the security of the Polish state. Today, on the international stage, on the eastern border of the European Union, the eastern border of the Polish state is a widespread political provocation. This political provocation concerns an attempt to push thousands, tens of thousands of people through the Polish border in an illegal manner - because already more than 10,000 people. illegal migrants were brought to Belarus - who, in accordance with international law, if they wanted to apply for refugee status, should do so in the first country to sign the Geneva Convention on refugee rights, in Belarus. [[Applause]] But for us, ladies and gentlemen, for Poles who know so well how our stateship is, our sovereignty, our borders, the guarding of these borders should be absolutely obvious, it should be based on political consensus, on the consensus of all political forces, because today on this stage, which is set near Upper Usnar, near the border of Poland with Belarus, on this stage, which is set by the architects of Minsk and Moscow, you play a role applauded just in Moscow and Minsk. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[The voice from the room: You impudent liar.]] [[Voice from the room: A cheeky liar.]] And for us, guarding the Polish border, making sure that it is safe, so that no one crosses it illegally, is one of the basic duties, is one of the duties that we will guard. [[Voice from the room: You didn't make it.]] We will pursue this with all possible means, forces, officers, whom from this place I would like to show great gratitude for what they do, for what they do at the Eastern border... [[Voice from the room: Don't cry out of emotion.]] ...and for not succumbing to this very unpatriotic anti-state pressure that you are trying to exert, some of you, your fellow Members, working closely with you, such as Mr Kramek, Mr Frasyniuk, who supports Mr Frasyniuk's words without reservation, Mr Wałęsa. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Voice from the room: Vileness!]] Those shameful words, the vile words that came out of their mouths, should never fall. You should apologize for them. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! We're bringing in... We propose that the High House approve the proposal to introduce a state of emergency, not to restrict freedom, just to ensure freedom. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Uniform wear.]] The state border isn't just a line on the map. The blood of a generation of Poles was spilled abroad. This line is sacred. [[Applause]] In a few days, on Friday, High Izbo, the Zapad 2021 exercises begin. According to available information, this is the first exercise in 40 years to involve the largest number of soldiers: over 200,000. - according to available information, I say. That means it's very easy to provoke. This means that just beyond our borders, several dozens, maybe even a dozen kilometers away, will be conducted... [[Voice from the room: Fight with the Union and with America, fight.]] ...on a large scale exercise. How easy it is - imagine only - for provocation. This pattern of actions, which was set up for the role, the attack on the Baltic States, the attack on the Republic, is something unprecedented. It's not just a diplomatic conflict, it's a rehearsal. breach of the integrity of the Polish state, sovereignty of our borders and we cannot allow that. And we won't. [[Applause]] What the representatives of the Civic Platform have done, working with them very closely Mr. Frasyniuk or Mr. Kramek, is a festival of embarrassment. It's actually a big shame. I'm not surprised you're hiding your heads now that you're sorry about this, but you should apologize out loud. [[Applause]] We're trying to provide Border Guard officers, soldiers who support Border Guard officers, police officers with the best possible operating conditions. That's why in the border belt, just a short distance from the border, we propose to introduce a state of emergency, and to all those who will suffer because of it... In a very short time - if we accept this, and I believe that we will adopt it the day after tomorrow at the Council of Ministers - we will submit to the Sejm a bill which will aim to compensate very quickly for losses in income and losses to all operators operating in the Lublin Voivodeship and the Podlaskie Voivodeship who may suffer losses. That's our commitment. [[Applause]] No one will suffer any losses because of this, so we will urgently ask you to proceed with the relevant bill. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Today, on this day of rehearsal, I ask the High House to rise above political divisions, beyond what... [[Voice from the room: What are you doing?]] ...in recent weeks - you can conclude - it has indeed led to misunderstandings, but also to tensions, disputes, often provoked by some of your allies, acolytes. However, all of this we propose to postpone to the closed chapter of history, the ugly chapter of last week's history. [[Voice from the room: You provoke.]] We propose that you all support this decision... [[Voice from the room: Chairman.]] ...about the introduction of a state of emergency. That way we'll be able to ensure better safety... [[Voice from the room: You can't do it.]] ...our officers, the higher working comfort of those who defend our border. [[Voice from the O.R.: You won't have to defend...]] And at the same time we will be able to protect against illegal immigration and we will not be playing in this orchestra in which the conductors in Minsk and Moscow are happy if there is an argument in our Parliament around this topic. In the past, ladies and gentlemen, such actions were treated as national treason. [[Voice from the hall: Who was driving to Minsk? Me?]] [[Say it to Karczewski.]] Today I believe it's just naivety, [[Applause]] Stupidity, wanting to raise political capital in the misery that's going on there. [[Voice from the room: You're talking about yourself.]] You know perfectly well that we are ready at any time to send as many humanitarian forces and resources as necessary, and that this is a deliberate policy of Mr Lukashenka to prevent this from happening. We have shown today at a press conference with the Minister how the cars of special services and Belarusian border services are being delivered from Iraq, migrants from Syria, Libya and Afghanistan. We showed it in the pictures. I don't think we need any better evidence. [[Slide.]] This is why, High Izbo, we have decided to prevent rather than cure, not wait for events to develop, not wait for what will happen to Zapad 2021, not wait for the next acts of this drama written in Moscow and Minsk, but act. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Stand up as you must.]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The borders of the Polish state are something that should be guarded with the utmost care, care by all Poles, by all officers. [[Voice from the room: But it is not.]] And today, under present circumstances, let care for these borders also bear witness to the solidarity and responsibility of the entire Sejm. [[Voice from the room: Why are you insulting us?]] I therefore ask all Members, all Members, to agree to the recommendation of the Government, to the President's decision and to approve the introduction of a state of emergency at the Polish-Belarusian border in Lublin and Podlaskie voivodships. Thank you very much. [[Some Members get up and clap]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u10	Thank you, Prime Minister. Please take the floor of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration of Mr Mariusz Kaminski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u11	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask you to listen to each other's arguments because of the seriousness of the topic of silence. Let's give it a chance. [[Game in the O.R.]] Minister... Ladies and gentlemen, I think if you speak out of this podium, you'd like to be heard. You want us to yell at you, too, how are you gonna talk? [[Voice from the room: We have no delusions.]] You're welcome... [[Voice from the hall: But you can't tell stupid things.]] The Minister has his time, my fellow Member, so let him speak, okay? Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Kaminski: Ladies and gentlemen! I'm not gonna respond to your shouts, to your fights, to the aggressive words that fall here. We are tired of aggression in public life, and in situations of threat to fundamental matters, namely the security of our state, the security of citizens, the integrity of our state's borders, let us listen, let us give ourselves a chance. This is what the citizens, including your voters, expect from us, that in an external emergency we will show that we are a community, that we can act together. This is no time for shouting. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] This is no time for empty talk, aggressive insults. This is the time for action, for action of the Polish state. [[Voice from the hall: What was the Prime Minister doing just now?]] Calm down. What we expect from you is: do not disturb us. Don't bother us. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Require from each other, from the Prime Minister.]] We can handle Lukashenka, but do not disturb us and do so in the name of state loyalty and loyalty to your constituents, our citizens, regardless of their political views. [[Voice from the room: Start with each other.]] Yeah, that's the situation. There are elements that threaten the sovereignty of our country and the integrity of our country's borders. [[Voice from the hall: You're scaring your incompetence.]] [[Voice from the room: Where's the president?]] [[Voice from the room: Where is NATO?]] [[Voice from the room: You can't do it.]] The danger is real. We're not scaring anybody. We're just telling the facts. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that in a completely artificial and cynical manner the Lukashenka regime neighbouring us uses the naivety of many people in the world, cynically exploits, and wants to create a migration crisis, creates a migration crisis on our border... [[Voice from the room: A warm man.]] ...at the border of Lithuania, Latvia, on the border of the European Union... Why is he doing this? On the one hand, it remembers 2015 when Europe reached a huge wave of refugees from all over the world, about 1 million people from all over the world, poor, looking for a better life. It is also about consequences for Europe, political, social problems, problems related to the rise of criminal crime, as well as terrorism problems. Among these people were terrorist bombers at that time in France, Belgium, the United Kingdom. Lukashenka has it in her mind. Lukashenka would like to repeat such events. He wants to create another great migration route in north-eastern Europe. That's his goal. Why is he doing this? [[Voice from the hall: Because there is a weak government in Poland.]] This is retaliation. This is retaliation for the support that the European Union, Poland, Lithuania gives to the Belarusian opposition. A year ago we saw the true face of the Belarusian people fighting for freedom, for democracy, for bread in their country, against dictatorship. Prisons in Belarus are filled with political prisoners. In prison are our compatriots, leaders of the Polish national minority: Mrs Andzelika Borys, Mr Andrzej Poczobut. We demand their release every step of the way, [[Applause]] in every way: loud and in any other way possible. Some of our compatriots have managed to get us out of prison, but we will continue to fight consistently. [[Voice from the room: Inefficient.]] This is Lukashenka's answer, Lukashenka's revenge. If we do not act effectively and consistently, we will be flooded by a wave of refugees. No - we will be flooded by a wave, not by refugees, but by illegal migrants. The Belarusian State, managed at this point by the Lukashenka regime, is organising a major international migration tourism operation. What are the facts? What's the evidence? Our services have identified 46 flights from Baghdad to Minsk from Iraq to Belarus in recent weeks. About 10,000 came in the planes. the people of Iraq. There is no political crisis there at the moment, there is no civil war at the moment. These are people who are looking for a better life. I understand that subjectively. We know that the regime has recently launched connections with Lebanon - a great potential reservoir of migratory movements. We know that in Morocco, there are talks in Pakistan about the opening of flights by Belarusian airlines. We know that there are people from Turkey, we know that there are people from Russia, especially the Afghans. I'll get right to it. The potential for the creation of a great migration crisis caused artificially and politically by Lukashenka is really great, it is really true if he believes that these refugees enter Europe like butter, that the Polish border is a fictional border, that we will be bound by political correctness. No, we need to combat this effectively, because it is also in the interest of those naive people whom Lukashenka cynically uses, whom she wants to bring from all over the world. If they do not go illegally to the European Union, if our border, the Polish border is a hard border, this crisis will end, because it will not be worth bringing thousands more immigrants from all over the world when they stay in Belarus when they do not achieve their goals. That is why it is so important that the Polish border is the border of a sovereign state and a sovereign nation, which no one will cynically break. Its integrity is a sacred matter, and we will be firm in defending international law and the right to sovereignly respect the integrity of our state border. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Nothing can stop us. We will not give up on this matter, on a fundamental and fundamental matter, or a millimeter, because we are responsible people, [[Applause]] responsible for Poland, for the security of its citizens, and we feel responsible for the security of the European Union. The whole European Union keeps its fingers crossed for us so that the Polish border, the Lithuanian border, the Latvian border are the external borders of the European Union and the sovereign borders of our countries, taken seriously. [[Voice from the room: Seal the boundaries.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I know that some of the public opinion is appalled by the Usnar case. [[Voice from the room: Journalists are interrupting.]] Today, once again, we have shown pictures of the Polish Border Guard, where you can see what the situation on the other side of the border is like, I emphasize, on the Belarusian side. [[Voice from the room: Why are you afraid of the media?]] These people are in constant contact with Belarusian services. They're supplied with food. They're even supplied with power banks so they can charge their cell phones. They get warm clothes and sleeping bags. These are facts. [[Voice from the hall: What did we give them?]] These are facts, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! This type of undertaking is always accompanied by the activities of organised criminal groups that live in it. In Polish border towns, our magnificent, so-far peaceful and quiet towns, where peaceful people live, people from many countries of the world appear at night, who drive by at night in certain places, waiting in cars for the transfer of people from the other side of the border. In recent weeks, the Border Guard and the police have detained 66 of these people. Since the introduction of the emergency state, since September 2, eight people have been detained. [[Applause]] These are people from all over the world, both from Arab countries and above all from the post-Soviet republics - Georgians, Tajiks, Turkmenistan, Uzbeks, Chechnya. Some of these people confessed. One of these people was voluntarily punished in those days and sentenced to one year's probation. She revealed what the methods are, what the targets are, who pays, how much they pay. This man, a Turkmenistan national residing illegally in the territory of the European Union, was recruited by a citizen of the Russian Federation. For transportation in a certain place... The locator showed him where to wait at night and when. He was going to get 600 euros for moving people to the German border. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to charges, we don't have poor people running away from bombs. These are people who invest in their future. It is clear from the talks of our Border Guard with the refugees detained that on average the cost of transport to the European Union is about 5 000. $ per person, for a family of 15.20 thousand. We have one example that one of the families admitted that she paid 40 thousand for transportation from Asia to Germany. Dollars. This is tourism. This is migratory tourism. Many people who try to cross our borders are convinced that they are in German territory. They are surprised that they are in a country like Poland. Their aim is the European Union. We're all aware of that. That is why I said: the whole European Union keeps fingers cross for us, and the European Commission, and our friends from the national border guards. We are in contact with them, just as we are in contact every day, and at political level - Mr President, Prime Minister, me as Minister of Home Affairs - and at organisational level - the heads of services - with our Lithuanian neighbours, with our friends from Latvia. Together with the same methods, we harden our borders and solve the crisis. Emergency states are already in place in Lithuania and Latvia. We want to introduce this state of emergency in Poland, for the safety of our residents, in a very narrow belt of 3 km. And I would like to make it clear to you that we are in constant contact with the representatives of the municipalities concerned by the introduction of a state of emergency, we are in contact with the residents. Everyone is very relieved that there are Polish troops, Polish Border Guards and Polish Police. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: There hasn't been a Border Guard up there?]] I would also like to make it clear to you: we know that there are also our citizens, our entrepreneurs, who conduct business activities in this belt, especially hotels, tourism, agrotourism, restaurants. We've got a draft bill that's gonna go to a government meeting this week. This project assumes that they will all receive compensation. There is a clear, clear mechanism for paying it to all our citizens, whose activities will be temporarily hindered. And please... Here, at the very beginning, Mr Hołowni insinuated that a group of our citizens was in a restricted zone. No. I was there Saturday, talking to the officers, with the soldiers. I know how much mobilisation is and how much responsibility it is for the safety of our citizens there. There is a normal life going on - because we have our officers there, we have our soldiers there. People work in the field, people live normally... [[Voice from the room: The media needs to be released.]] ...there are no restrictions on moving for these citizens. The only obligation we impose on them is to have ID, ID, so we can quickly say that this is a person who is permanently involved in this area, life, professionally. This is extremely important because we don't want to make things difficult for these people, we want to protect them. [[Applause]] This comes with full acceptance and understanding. Ladies and gentlemen, the second consideration we must take into account is the Zapad 2021 exercises, as Minister Soloch said, as the Prime Minister said - the greatest exercise in Western Russia and Belarus for many years. Every four years, the Russians organize the Zapad exercises. The last one was in 2017. These are now organized three or four times greater than the previous ones. An important element of these exercises will be played in Belarus, with the participation of Belarusian troops. An important element, officially, of the Zapad scenario, is the activities of the special forces of Belarus and Russia above our borders. They are to practice the fight against diversionary groups moving from Poland to Belarus. Special forces Belarusian and Russian - a few kilometers from our border. At Brest, three kilometers, there's a field. There's a field at Grodno. Battle groups are about to start training on Friday, their active part. They will circle around the Polish border. We don't want any incident caused by irresponsible people, [[Applause]] Whether they're infantile or cynical, whether they're making it out of stupidity or heartbeat. We do not want random dramatic situations at the Polish-Belarusian border. We do not want to give the other side, practicing there to Russian and Belarusian commandos any excuse for dramatic situations on the Polish border. That's why we need to have a free 3-kilometer belt around the border for that time, September, where only our soldiers, our Border Guard officers, our police officers, operate. This is security. Poland, this is the security of our citizens, and above all those who live there, in these so-far quiet and peaceful towns on the border with Belarus. [[Applause]] That's our goal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Measures are adequate, proportionate, thought-out. We're not hysterical. We act calmly and decisively. We expect every sensible, wise politician, regardless of his political views, not to stand up for us. I'm telling you again. The time for politics in these matters is over. There's a time of action. [[Applause]] With Lukashenka and his regime - I repeat this once again - we will manage. You can help us with that. You can disturb us. [[Applause]] [[Some Members get up and clap]] [[Voice from the room: You should have talked to the opposition.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u12	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Zdzisław Sipiera, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u13	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! After these speeches, in which a lot of very specific information has already been submitted, I wanted to provide some information on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The hot information that comes every day from the Polish-Belarusian border is that the intensity of the action is considerable. Every day the numbers shown by the guards are increasing. So it's not a trend that's going to go down, but it's going to go up. The escalation of this border conflict is an attempt to cross the border illegally in the Polish-Belarusian section. This is also, as the Minister of Home Affairs has said, a very important issue that is taking place at the border - the issue of smuggling people. [[Voice from the room: Time.]] [[What about time? Counted?]] This is a very serious issue, because it is not only about smuggling people, but also about crime. There are also concrete actions at this border that cause the destruction of all border safeguards, which is also an unacceptable element. The Belarusian regime is determined and very dangerous. We know that sanctions that work do not have a positive impact on the morale and the Belarusian regime is certainly negative at this point in time for the phenomena that these sanctions give. Therefore, every conflict on this border, every incident is difficult to predict in its consequences. Those in this band, who are the political instrument of the Lukashenka regime, are also a certain or even very dangerous and dangerous phenomenon. Foreigners who are currently on the territory of the Polish-Belarusian border are staying in Belarusian territory, as we often forget, but this is very important because the Belarusian side has full responsibilities and rights. What we see in the media is quite numerous unpunished happenings or provocations at the border, unfortunately involving some politicians, journalists, volunteers or less recognized activists. Racing with the Border Guard, which we see, moving various materials over the heads of the Border Guard officers, does not count against the importance of protecting the borders of the Polish state. Without fully infiltrating the intentions behind this, I would like to say that this brings forth a clear message: come to us, we will help you. As for those determined people who dream of this European freedom, even as the Minister said, paying enormous money, this prosperity, it is their deception, it is doing them great harm. You can't not write that, either. The world in such a arrangement receives a deformed message which should not be duplicated. The Polish authorities have made numerous efforts at the border. There were appropriate measures, additional forces, increased scope and forms of border control activities, and requested assistance from the Belarusian authorities, these were specific humanitarian aid tiras, which, as you know, was not accepted. The construction of the fence was started, which is intended to limit the rapid crossing of the Polish-Belarusian border. We also work with Frontex and with the European Union, with the European Commission, on one assumption, please: we are not able to trust or be sure that this will secure the border for us, and it often appears in the message that this would be enough. No. This must be taken care of by the Polish side, the Polish Border Internship, the Polish army, the Polish Police. The conclusion is one: the efforts that have been made did not have the effect that we want. It's about toning, not heating the atmosphere, which, unfortunately, has recently been significantly heated. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to say a few sentences about what's going on in public space. Especially the opposition says that there are no reasons for introducing a state of emergency, that the state of emergency is propaganda, that the Polish state does not work, that we are introducing this state in the interests of our power. Ladies and gentlemen, you can say things, but this is completely irresponsible. It's not a dispute about who wins the election. This is a matter of security of Polish borders. [[Applause]] That is why it is not possible to agree with such terminology and with such a speech on this subject. On the other hand, we also hear in public space that you say, you complain: there is no discussion with the opposition. What's to talk about at a time like this? Are you in favor of talking, or are you just in favour of getting involved in a conversation? This is also the dilemma that we have as a club of law and justice. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, there's still a lot of information. And I don't want to heat the atmosphere, because it's not my role or our club, because we're asking you to support this proposal, but I couldn't say that. However, these statements of politicians of total opposition do not help in this situation, and at least we expect, as Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki also said, that such actions should be condemned and not absolutely accepted. That is what we can ask you to do, and we ask you to do so. We also ask that the opposition should not exceed the further limits of this cynicism in this very message that we are only fighting for the good of people. [[Voice from the room: What are you talking about?]] Poles are to fight for the good of Poles and we are to protect our borders. Now, a few conclusions, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps quite important, obvious. Every country must defend its borders. As long as the Law and Justice are in power, security is number one. We're not gonna let that go. Therefore, this must have been the case, and this must have been the case in order to ensure security. That's what the Prime Minister was talking about, that's what Minister Kaminski was talking about. The decision that is made is dictated precisely to secure two things: order and security. These are two fundamental, fundamental issues that we need to secure. Ladies and gentlemen, this was also mentioned in previous statements, it is not only the border of Poland with Belarus, it is also the border of the European Union. Notice what happened years ago 6, 7. We were scum that we didn't understand that we had to introduce absolutely every amount of refugees. Today we speak one language. The European Commission supports the actions of the Polish government. Pay attention to this and learn from it as an opposition. Surely we will not be subjected to blackmail, to the one who is being set up to not react and to do nothing. Ladies and gentlemen, this has also been mentioned, these tightenings are really small. If you look, they're not a big problem. They are heading in this direction in order to intervene as little as possible in terms of civil rights, but also to secure and enable the normal operation of state services in this area. I'm not gonna talk about these things, I'm not gonna say it again. That's what the Minister and the Prime Minister were talking about. Conclusions, ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, the actions of the authorities of the Polish State are, as I said, supported by the European Commission. They are supported by what we hear and see, also by most Poles. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing you, the honourable opposition, perhaps the time to reject disputes and feuds in this specific and dangerous situation, a speech of the entire political class in Poland with one voice. This is not a fight for the interests of one political party or another. This is a fight for sovereignty, territorial integrity and the security of citizens. Maybe it's time to pour hot heads with cold water and face the truth against all the unfriendly propaganda. You don't have to talk about them, you know them well, we all know them. The support of the government by the opposition is in the interest of Poland. We call on politicians and journalists not to use the dramatic situation at the border with Belarus to stimulate social emotions. If the opposition and the media working with it continue to support the Belarusian regime, these unfortunate people at the border will become more and more. We expect more responsibility from the opposition. Further provocations at the border may have difficult consequences to predict. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the regulation proposed by the Council of Ministers and signed by the President regarding the introduction in two voivodships, in a limited area, for a period of 30 days... Of course, if there is a vote, it will vote in favour of maintaining it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u14	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Siemoniak, representative of the Civic Coalition, has the floor. [[Voice from the room: Oh, Kaczyński is running away.]] [[Voice from the room: Don't be afraid.]] [[Mr. Kaczyński, stay.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u15	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! Why do you need this aggression against the opposition at a time like this, Prime Minister? [[Applause]] I'm not going in. I just want to tell you that the road between government benches and opposition benches is shorter than you think, as your recent deputy has learned. [[Applause]] [[What are you talking about? What is the debate about?]] Mr. Marshal! High Seym! There is no doubt that the Republic of Poland has its external opponents, who strive to weaken us, to break us out of the Western community. This threat must never be underestimated. A Belarusian dictator a year ago, after a false presidential election, entered the path of confrontation with his own society. Next, he hit the West, and in particular the countries most actively supporting democracy and human rights in Belarus, namely Poland and Lithuania. It is a disgrace to be imprisoned as hostages of activists of the Polish minority. Deeply cynical and hostile is organized by the Belarusian government of cross-border transfer, first Lithuania and Latvia, and recently Poland, third-country nationals. The borders of Poland, which are also the external borders of the European Union, must be absolutely tight. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] International law, ratified by Poland, conventions and internal rules provide a way of accepting and helping people fleeing persecution and showing empathy and solidarity - values close to the hearts of Poles. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Constitution provides that, in the event of a threat to the constitutional system of the State, the security of citizens or public order, the President of the Republic of Poland may, at the request of the Council of Ministers, introduce a state of emergency for a period of not more than 90 days in part or throughout the territory of the State. In the opinion of the Civic Coalition, the state of emergency is not justified by the above constitutional conditions. [[Applause]] It is appropriate to agree with Judge Wojciech Hermelinski, appointed to the Constitutional Tribunal in 2006, that there is no justification for the fact that the threat could not be removed by constitutional means and then an emergency is introduced. The regulation does not refer to real border security measures, such as an increase in the number of border guards, police and soldiers of the Polish Army and the construction of border infrastructure. This is done on the basis of other laws and decisions and does not require a state of emergency. [[Applause]] In fact, the only special tool of power resulting from the regulation is to block the border area for media representatives - unprecedented and absurd, because journalists report war conflicts and other dramatic events. Cutting them off is cutting the public off from reliable information. [[Applause]] If we believe that Poland is right in this confrontation with Belarus, then why are you afraid of the media at the border? [[Applause]] Hiding information about what is really happening is a terrible practice that destroys the uniform attitude of Polish policy against threats. In 2014, Prime Minister Donald Tusk, in the face of drama in the east, invited the Prime Minister of opposition leaders to the firm, and Jarosław Kaczyński was also president. The meeting was an important, strong signal of unity in the face of danger. Why aren't you holding a meeting like this now, Prime Minister and Vice Prime Minister? Why isn't the president calling the National Security Council? [[Applause]] The government's information policy on the border crisis is terrible. Chaotic statements by ministers about the number of illegal crossings of the border, about immigrants who disappeared into Poland. When the government sends a humanitarian convoy, the PCK demanded that the red cross be removed. MMSWiA and MON have not had press spokespersons for years. None of the chiefs and commanders can take responsibility. The lack of confidence in government action deepens the isolation from the crisis of the border security agency Frontex, which has been operating in Lithuania since the first half of July. Lithuania has ensured that the most important representatives of the European Union are involved. This is not a question of sufficient resources. It is a question of dragging our partners and allies into the topic that concerns them. After all, the Polish border is the external border of the European Union. As you can see, the current government, even though we have heard here that it will deal with Lukashenka, has little leverage on the Belarusian authorities. And that is the only way to eliminate the causes of the crisis. Everything must be done to ensure that the Union and the US react strongly to Belarus' actions and undoubtedly supporting Russia. In the statements of the president and government representatives, as an additional justification for the introduction of the state of emergency, the upcoming Russian-Belarusian exercises of Zapad appeared. In the past, Polish forces and troops treated with allies of this scale exercises with the highest seriousness. In silence and obvious secrecy, because matters of hard security of the state require such. As far as it is not just about increasing tensions and threatening citizens and having information about real threats, it is obvious that it is a matter of turning to NATO under Article. 4 of the North Atlantic Treaty, [[Applause]] who says that the parties will consult jointly whenever any of them thinks that territorial integrity, political independence or security will be compromised. It's a real test to see if the government takes the threat seriously. I would like to remind you that in March 2014 at the request of Poland in the manner of art. The 4th North Atlantic Council just met. It is incomprehensible why we do not reach out to NATO's hybrid threat control team. Allies must also be drawn into a common problem. It was obvious for a long time that this crisis would affect Poland and Poland. Question: "What were the government and its servants doing at the time?" Undoubtedly, we will try to explain these matters carefully in Parliament. Just as we will demand compensation for all citizens, including entrepreneurs, who will suffer losses due to the state of emergency. The inadequacy of the Emergency Regulation to the actual risks leads to the assumption that the government's actions are politically motivated. Because no one will believe that journalists at the border are the main threat to Poland today. The governing camp seems to think that the emotions and tensions associated with the slogan: the state of emergency will serve it as a distraction from the crazy prices, scandals, failures in the fight against pandemics and the health situation. In other words, the government remained deaf to the demands of a natural disaster when thousands of people died, ambulances were waiting in line for hospitals, and social and economic life was completely blocked. In addition, inadequate and excessive rules restricting media freedom are dangerously suited to the tendency to rumble independent media illustrated by the acquisition of the regional press, to put it under the supervision of the state of the company and to adopt a law aimed at private television. Whoever has been breaking the rule of law and restricting constitutional freedoms for years does not inspire the slightest confidence. [[Applause]] So it is right that pro-democratic organisations protest against the regulation. Therefore, there are no substantive reasons for the existence of a state of emergency in the form of a regulation signed by the President, who, moreover, indicated by his behaviour, that this act is not serious. This is the world's first state of emergency announced by the press spokesman, whose idea was rather than making a message, he chose to play at a football game. [[Applause]] Therefore, on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I apply for the repeal of the Regulation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u16	Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski from the Left Club will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u17	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Art. 228 of the Constitution clearly indicates that a state of emergency is introduced in situations of special threats where ordinary constitutional measures are insufficient. You have introduced a state of emergency and I ask: What ordinary constitutional measures have been insufficient? For the first time in the history of free and democratic Poland, you decided to limit part of civil rights, introduce censorship and limit the right of Poles and Poles to access information. This is a key question because it concerns the real reasons for introducing a state of emergency. The answer is simple and clear: there were no such conditions, and Minister Kaminski knows that very well. Otherwise, this would mean that a group of 32 people defeated the Polish state. It's a shame that in a 38 million-dollar country and its services... You are unable to cope with the provocation of dictator Lukashenka. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Voice from the room: We're not gonna beat it.]] Instead of solving a real problem, you just don't let the media report it. Because if the situation on our eastern border is actually so bad, why did the Minister of National Defence say a few days ago that everything is under control that we do not need the help of the agency Frontex, which is based in Poland? If the situation on our border is so dramatic, how does it reflect President Duda, who had time for his leave and did not have time to convene the National Security Council meetings? [[Applause]] This is the place where we should talk and consult where the opposition should meet with the rulers. Anyway, I have a question for you... Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This empty place and the absence of the President of the Republic of Poland, who signed this regulation, is a shame for this House. [[Applause]] It's a shame the president hasn't found the time to tell us a few words about why he's introducing a state of emergency. The truth is, the PiS government has decided to introduce a state of emergency because it simply wants to hide the truth. When in Poland 75 thousand died because of COVID. People, you said you didn't need an emergency. Why? Because you have a political interest in it. That's when you were knee-deep in the presidential election, and now you're warming up the atmosphere of danger and fear because you're hoping you can bounce back in the polls. We know that from history. Any authoritarian authority that feels threatened may lose, take away further civil rights and tighten the course. It's not about the safety of Poles and Poles, it's about the cynical maintenance of power. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] Upper sleeper didn't fall from the sky. It was the PiS government who created it for a company with the Lukashenka regime. There is no doubt that the dictator from Belarus plays his game, and President Kaczyński plays with him. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Awesome.]] And both of you, this whole situation is very good for you. If it weren't, if you really wanted to order this crisis, you wouldn't let it grow. Besides, the reception of refugees is clear from international law and from the Geneva Convention, which we are a signatory. But you didn't. [[Voice from the hall: To the cabaret, not to the parliament.]] Because if you let these people in, you help them, the crisis would end, and yet every regime knows that it's best to rule by managing fear. [[Applause]] You're afraid and you're scaring people whose only fault is that they wanted to escape the war and the cruelty of power that they didn't want in their countries. [[That's bullshit, and that's a lie. That's a lie from the speaker?]] The people who had the misfortune of fleeing the terrible power in their own country met on the border with the falling regime that stopped them, saying, "We will not help." However, the choice between man and business is simple. On the left we bet on the man, we bet on the people, [[Applause]] Women, children, men. Family. [[Where's the cat?]] Don't let it get away with it, because we're talking about people who are at the borders of hungry, cold, thirsty, desperate people, [[Applause]] people who are scared. We are talking about people who thought that where, but in Europe, human rights and international agreements are respected, that people are not allowed to die without access to food and to a doctor. And you must be ashamed of yourself for that. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Lying.]] [[But why are you lying?]] You choose the interests - the interests of the party, the political interests, your individual interests. [[Voice from the room: Business in Poland.]] If we all agree that Lukashenka is a heartless dictator who, for the purposes of internal propaganda, will not go back to anything, how does this affect the rule of law and justice? What's the difference between you two? A decent man would feed and serve the needy. [[Voice from the hall: To the communes.]] Responsible policies, in cooperation with our partners from the European Union, would seal borders, but you are neither decent people nor responsible politicians. [[Applause]] You combine inability with cynicism. It's a very dangerous mixture. Instead of real activities, you organize a show with a fence, which is supposed to stop everyone, including animals, for several hundred million PLN. [[Where's the cat?]] The hundreds of thousands of zlotys you spend thoughtlessly will cause barbarism and thoughtlessness, because there they will die... mostly animals die. What you are doing at the border is a disgrace to the entire Polish society, to Poland, to the people of solidarity, who repeatedly fought heroically for our freedom and yours. You claim that you are building a great Poland, and in fact you are trembling in fear of a handful of cold, chilled and ill people. [[Applause]] The truth is, the only state of emergency you're introducing is the one that deals with health care, social policy and lack of responsibility for climate. [[Applause]] You're talking about the safety of citizens - why will medical rescues strike soon? Why do we have extracurricular deaths that are the most important in Europe? This is the real state of emergency you're responsible for. Teachers, nurses, residents, doctors - they can all tell you: Thank you for the state of emergency, because you are not dealing with this crisis. [[Applause]] You're trying to convince Poles that you care about security, but how can the Minister responsible for security look in the mirror today when he has to be responsible for police brutality? Do you know the name Łukasz Łagiewka? Does that mean anything to you, Minister? He's another deadly victim of brutality, a police officer's overstepping his bounds. [[Applause]] Today's media reports about it, how he was beaten with batons and how the officers used to take it out on him. That's not the safety we're fighting for. [[...after an overdose of amphetamine.]] The police, the customs, the border guards are supposed to work for the state, but we just need to keep an eye on it. And you, Minister, aren't watching this, you're crossing the line. [[Applause]] You say the problem is the Zapad maneuvers. Except Minister Kaminski forgot to mention that it's already 20. maneuvers [[Applause]] and for 40 years during 20 maneuvers taking place there was no need to introduce a state of emergency. You're playing with fear. [[The voice from the hall: The Lord did not listen to what was said.]] I have a proposal for the Prime Minister and the President: put on your uniforms and appear on TVP in these uniforms. Then maybe it'll be safer. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: How's your party...]] In the sense of responsibility for man, not responsibility for the party's interests. That's why the Left is applying for a waiver of the state of emergency... [[The voice from the hall:]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] ...who has nothing to do with security. [[Applause]] [[What a surprise.]] Our borders must be taken care of, and there is no doubt about it. But you also have to take care of the boundaries of decency. [[Applause]] [[The Wizard is with us.]] And you, ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, don't care about such boundaries. The situation on our eastern border is not easy... [[Voice from the hall: And the limits of reason?]] [[Healthy sense.]] ...and requires constructive action. Border security does not conflict with international agreements. They're complementary. Learn that. Please, don't take these actions that will compromise us. We appeal to you: do not hide the truth. There will be a few votes throughout your political career that you may be ashamed of. Or you can be proud of. Today, the introduction of a state of emergency... [[Voice from the hall: So far, it's the Left...]] ...it's either a disgrace or a chance for normal Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Gawkowski to the border.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u18	Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Coalition Poland. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Or accept, two rooms... at home.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! In your speech, you used the phrase: border guarding should be based on consensus of all. It is difficult at times of danger to disagree with such a phrase at times of great responsibility. Just a question: Is it true, said by the Prime Minister? Are the motives for introducing a state of emergency patriotic, as you are trying to present, or politically, how unfortunately is it really starting to look? [[Applause]] If the threat is so serious, first of all, at the time of knowledge of the threat, the Prime Minister should normally call the entire High House, all the representatives of the clubs and invite them to a meeting. The Prime Minister did this a year ago when the coronavirus came to Poland. The President then called the National Security Council. You didn't resist because you saw he was a serious threat. You haven't made such a gesture today in any way. You don't want a consensus on decision-making because you made it individually. Why did you not make specific arguments in this decision that show that all other measures had been exhausted? Because a state of emergency can be introduced, but only when all other activities of the state services have been exhausted. [[Applause]] Have they been exhausted today? Couldn't the Border Guard operate in a border belt that's more than three kilometers wide? And the next question is: Are three kilometers really enough if the threat is so serious? Is this area adequate to the threat, or is it merely symbolic? I wouldn't want there to be a situation where... For 20 years, Zapad's maneuvers have never caused excessive external and image activity, visible to the world, the Polish Army. Speaking of shortcuts, the Polish army never took part in these maneuvers. And wanting or not, your actions lead to the fact that Polish troops will participate in the Zapad 2021 maneuvers. [[Applause]] Is it security, or is it just an attempt to take political interest, to play political interest in making such a decision? What non-standard activities will be carried out by state services? There's no specific answer to that. It wasn't given today. Were the European Union and NATO informed, but not after the decision was taken, was it consulted within the European Union, NATO before the decision was taken? Did you treat our allies the same way you treated the opposition in Poland? Today you will deprive us of our rights to patriotism, throw us out that we do not want to take care of freedom, independence of the Polish state? [[You take it from yourself, you take it from yourself.]] For generations we proved this not only by word, our ancestors proved it by action, they defended Polish borders. [[Applause]] None of your screams will take away our right to patriotism and our patriotic attitude. That's what we'll always show up for. But do you really want to defend Poland from a real threat... [[Yes.]] Or do you just want to play the political business, or do you want to use the opposition's mistakes? Because you can have good intentions, you can have good motives and unfortunately you can enter into the scenario that best suits this power. You may want to help another person, but sometimes you can make it happen, which makes them just get a feed to put in a state of emergency. [[Applause]] This is unfortunately the complex difficulty of this situation. How to make the best decision in it, so that in no way will it be lost always number one: the security of the Polish state? We're not sure about your intentions today. Nor do we have it after explaining the Prime Minister who was hitting very high tons, but apparently he did not convince the President, because if the threat were so serious, I do not believe that the President of the Republic would not come here and stand before us. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Where is the president?]] It is better to prevent than to cure - this is another wording used by the Prime Minister, and I am very close because of my profession. But what happened in August when 3,500 foreigners crossed the Polish border? Where were you, when you introduced much more stringent sharpenings, maybe not exceptional states, but various kinds of actions, our allies in Lithuania and Latvia? Was there no threat at the time? Wasn't the Border Guard able to handle it, couldn't you use the police, the army to support the Border Guard? All these actions are possible. In general, what is the situation of the Polish state and its functioning, structure? Because if we wanted to take similar action in every area through this prism... Consider e.g. Fire department - 1400 calls in 24 hours, 550 thousand. In a year, a fire truck leaves every minute. Here everything is arranged: there are state firefighters and volunteers. There's no need for special states. Then maybe you've brought this situation to such a point that today there's no sense of security that this dissipation is so big in many areas of life that you're responsible for and taking 100% of it. Is it your responsibility to resort to a state of emergency? What's next? Because it's already raised the alert, almost the highest. There's only one left - martial law. If we're already running so far-reaching measures today, or we're showing this far-reaching decision, then what's next if it's not 30 people and 30,000.? Do you consider that this decision will not end here and now? It will have its huge consequences in terms of the future, it has huge consequences for the security of the Polish state. And this decision must not be made only by the prism of one or the other poll, which has been better for you, because it has short legs, because it endangers not your governments - I will not worry about it - but endangers the well-being, well-being and safety of citizens, [[Applause]] And that's what we'll always be worried about. No matter how loud you scream, how much you don't want to cooperate, how much you don't understand what sharing responsibility means in a moment of danger, we won't look at you and we'll make decisions that dictate our mind, our heart, we'll just be dictated by decency. [[Voice from the room: What kind of voice?]] It's a good thing you're Prime Minister today, too, 'cause we need to ask for entrepreneurs. They don't need to be introduced, they need to adopt special laws, Prime Minister, they simply need to implement a law which, by means of your solutions, gives them the opportunity to obtain compensation, but only the agreement of the voivode must express it. Just tell the voivods to give compensation to all those who report to them, not another raccoon, another special solution. [[Applause]] Normal solutions, normal help. A well-functioning country, a functioning country is a safe country. It is also necessary to claim those who are in a state of extreme danger. These are Polish patients. It's a good thing you're here today and you can at least hear it. These are patients, to which a helicopter takes off 150 m from the ambulance to help them, because there is no one to leave by ambulance. These are farmers who have been left to themselves in the face of a fatal threat to their farms, the African swine fever. These are finally Polish families who in this state of danger inflation has been affecting the largest in 20 years, exceeding 5% in August. [[Applause]] We'll always work together. Even though you're offended that you don't want to share information, you haven't even called the Secret Service Commission, you're not telling us the whole truth, and we think you're making a lot of decisions. not only for political reasons today, but also for political and election reasons for the future, we will do everything we can to change your ways into patriotic actions. We won't be planting anyone's legs, Minister, because that's not the point. You've probably said the most concrete things today, and you've got to stop being a politician. So start cutting back on your politics, 'cause in this case, politics was the most important thing on your part. [[Applause]] We will abstain from voting as the Coalition of Poland. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: As usual.]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly as usual.]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet.]] And that's the expression of this interaction that you're presenting once again. Laughter, puzzle, screaming. You think your screams will hide your image of you as hypocrites in this case, because if there was a real threat, you wouldn't have said anything. You wouldn't hear anything in this room. And all you want to do is play your own political game. [[Voice from the room: You wouldn't be heard either.]] But Poland will be safe. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Poland will last longer, much longer than your governments and you will see it all. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice in the Chamber: Abstentions...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u20	3%. Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u21	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! It is true that the government has neglected to secure the border properly. It is true that the government mismanages many areas of our state life. It is true that the government is not trustworthy in many matters relating to security policy. But at the same time, for the first time in the history of the Third Republic we have the situation of organized operations of special services aimed at paralyzing the proper functioning of our country, violation of Polish borders by instrumentally used people, downloaded, informed of their hope, not always aware of their role, at least in some cases unaware of this role. This is not, as the speakers presented it here, the problem of dozens of nomadic people. This is a problem in the first place of hundreds of officers of the Belarusian KGB, internal troops, other special forces who coordinate this operation both in Belarus and in other countries from which special air services have been launched. Then it was the problem of thousands of migrants, illegal migrants, some of whom may have been refugees when they left their countries, but when they boarded the aircraft and landed in Belarus with a tourist visa, they were accommodated in a hotel or otherwise adopted by Alexander Lukashenka's regime, they simply became migrants. They haven't been refugees since then. It's not just the thousands that have already gotten on those planes, it's the hundreds of thousands that are considering it. It is a problem of smugglers from the European Union, people of all nationalities who come to the Polish border to take them, arranged by various applications. It's a problem with left radicals trying to destroy border reinforcements. Today they protest under the Seym ready to go there and throw themselves under the wheels of the Border Guard trucks or the Polish Army... [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] ...throw yourself on the back of soldiers who are supposed to be able to To look towards the border, not to look back, to see if anyone jumps on their backs. [[Applause]] And this is unfortunately the problem of Polish Members who, as it has turned out in recent weeks, do not grow up - some - to their role. They can't come in here, they can't articulate serious arguments. They prefer to fly with a commercial. They prefer to walk, seek media applause among unstable, infantile, emotionally immature people, acting as great human rights defenders, where it is enough to look at the example of the migration crisis in Hungary a few years ago to see that what they are doing simply leads to misery and to increase the scale of this disaster. We need to ask ourselves: If not at the beginning of the migration crisis, when would the emergency be introduced? How's this gonna work out if we have a nomadic area of hundreds of thousands of people? The Confederation will vote against the proposals of the Left and the Civic Platform blocking the introduction of an emergency. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u22	Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u23	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have just heard about the dignity of this House, the dignity of this House, about the implementation of the mandate of a Member, about what is happening at the Polish-Belarusian border. I wanted to say that some parliamentarians unfortunately failed the exam of seriousness and failed the exam of patriotism, failed the exam of maintaining the safety of our country, failed the exam of making Poles feel safe. We had an MP who negotiated with the Border Guard that he would want to cross the border illegally for only 10 minutes, and he promised he'd come back. [[Applause]] He really promised he'd come back. [[Voice from the room: This is a scandal.]] We had another envoy who had a rally... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] ...in which he later struggled with the Border Guard because the Border Guard tried to stop him, stopped him from committing a crime. We had a Senate marshal who showed me senator ID and said it allowed me to cross the border here. Ladies and gentlemen! Then we had this messenger who rallyed there, where he also said that he was convinced that this card entitles him to everything. Meanwhile, ladies and gentlemen, because Poles are watching us today... Ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary card no longer entitles you to deny a speeding ticket or misplaced parking. Yeah, that's right. [[Applause]] Mr Marshal, all I can ask for is a training course for these members of the centre-left opposition, which is the implementation of the mandate of the Member. And by the way, it's about border law training because you really didn't pass that exam. You're embarrassing us... [[Voice from the room: Exactly, exactly.]] ...international shame, because there is news in the world that Members of the opposition in Poland are making fikolki on the Polish-Belarusian border, [[♪ The bell ♪]] by putting us in danger by showing us, [[Applause]] That she's leaky. Shame. And now you should reflect, vote correctly. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u24	Thank you very much. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050. [[Mr. Marshal, ad vocem.]] Step out of the podium, please. [[30 seconds.]] No. [[But why, Marshal, why can't I refer to...]] Step out of the podium, please. [[Voice from the hall: Sit down, get off the platform.]] Well, you don't have a voice now, now you have a voice. [[That's great. That's great. That's great respect.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u25	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The safety of our borders is, of course, the most important... [[Freelancers for 10 rubles.]] Sir, please... ...but the PiS government at the eastern border is now fortifying the Maginot propaganda line, putting barbed wire wires between human rights and the real threat. Mr. Mateusz Morawiecki's ministers... [[Voice from the room: Prime Minister.]] They dress up like brave dudes in military uniforms. Now, with care, they visit fresh hairlines, and like teenage influencers on Instagram, they photograph themselves against them. Government propagandists obviously don't like the fact that your security wall can be crossed with a few broken boards together. This is what they look at with embarrassment the Border Guard officers and soldiers of the Polish Army, who silently make bets, which of the officials would be the first to flee to Romania if something bad really happened at the border. [[Voice from the room: Duda.]] Why didn't the President call the National Security Council, explaining that he didn't see the need, and a few days later he felt the will of heaven to use a pen and sign the emergency regulation? We would like to hear here what circumstances suddenly caused this, because during the first, second and third waves of pandemics you did not see such a need. Although not all funds have been exhausted, you can see them now, although security in areas bordering Belarus could be ensured e.g. It's the voivodship's decision. Mr. Minister of the Interior! Please read the article. 60 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) On the basis of this, it was possible to limit the entry to the border zone, i.e. to a belt with a width of as much as 15 km from our border with Belarus, not 3 km, but 15 km. Such bans have been made many times in the past. These included: prohibition of entering the border strip, restrictions on the use of border rivers, entry to flood shafts and adjacent areas. These decisions of the voivods were respected because they were subject to severe punishments for breaking them. Having such a simple and tried tool, you decided on a state of emergency, which deprives Poles of the right to reliable information about what is happening at the border, and security does not improve, but increases the temperature of the Polish-Polish war. It confirms that we are torn in half a country where internal conflict is easy for you to escalate. We remind you of your God-fearing consciences: a few days ago, exactly 2 September, 30 years have passed since Poland ratified the Geneva Convention, which obliges us to the environment with the care of those in need of help. And already two Afghan children are the victims of your incompetence. It is a shame for the country that Afghan co-workers of the Polish military contingent, intelligence, diplomatic-consulary corps and their families keep about hunger in the centers for foreigners for a daily feed rate of PLN 9. It's a disgrace. [[Voice from the hall: You are a disgrace.]] These people have risked their lives for us for years. From our image in the international arena, you make rotten spam that even the president's cat won't touch. In your propaganda, you also forgot about entrepreneurs at the border. If you limit the freedom of business in the border lane, at least give them bread for their families. And it's now, not tomorrow, not someday. And it's 100%. , not 65%. That's 65% at all. Did you make it up? Being the voice of society, we ask here and now: What is the real internal threat? Because only such reasons justify the introduction of a state of emergency in the belt of municipalities extending from Podlasie to Lublin region. What's the threat to the government? Free media? Non-governmental organisations? People helping other people in need? These and many other questions should be answered before this vote as Members of the Parliament of the Republic of Poland. And all you care about is hiding your incompetent actions from public opinion, activists and opposition. This is your idée fixe and the main motor drive this action. It is thanks to you now in Minsk and Moscow that traffic jams from Soviet Igristoe are fired. [[Voice from the hall: And you in their commercials...]] Without these answers as Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 we will certainly not put our hands to introduce this unique state of sobering (the bell) to our eyes, even if the Minister spoke to us for a long time with the voice of the snake whisperer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u26	Mr Jarosław Gowin, Agreement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u27	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The security of Poland must not be the subject of any party games, either by the government or by the opposition. We're at a dramatic moment. For the first time in the Third Republic, civil rights may be restricted in free, independent Poland. Such a decision requires a mature debate and, above all, reliable information. Such a decision should be preceded by the convening of a National Security Council meeting - that is obvious - and the Prime Minister should prioritize the submission of a request to the President of consultations with all the political environments represented in this House. In fact, for the first time I heard this reliable information today from Minister Mariusz Kaminski, and nothing that should have preceded our debate has happened. As an alibi for the lack of consultation, government representatives recall irresponsible behaviour of opposition politicians or some form of public life. True, such irresponsible behavior took place. It is true that the words of shame were uttered, words for which their authors should apologize. It is true that we should all heartily thank the Border Guard, police officers, army officers, all those who guard this holy one, especially there, on the eastern border, occupied by the blood of the generations of Poland. But at the same time I would like to say - I am saying this as someone who has recently represented a government camp - that recalling these events as a justification, as an alibi, not to consult with the opposition, that is, I am sorry to say, a lousy alibi. The Prime Minister here rightly called for consensus. I would very much like such a consensus to take place. But then Prime Minister Morawiecki - completely different from Minister Kaminski, who informed us fairly - launched an attack on the opposition to provoke an escalation of tension. That is why I would like to say that although there have been these feats that the authors should be ashamed of, at the same time a handful of politicians participated in them. In fact, it would probably be enough to replace the fingers of one hand. On the other hand, I have heard a lot of statements from government camp politicians, but also statements from opposition politicians who behaved in a prudent and responsible manner on the crisis on our eastern border. I am sorry to give you an example of my party, but right at the beginning of the crisis, the agreement adopted a position in which it supported the government's efforts to seal the Polish-Belarusian border. I would like this attitude on the part of the opposition to be seen in government benches, because this is really about Poland, not about which political party, which of the camps will score some points in the polls. And with regard to the introduction of a state of emergency, I would also like to say that, despite the lack of fair dialogue from the government, the Agreement will give this resolution its support. However, this is support with a number of strong expectations. Firstly, this is the border of the European Union, where there should also be Frontex officers and we should carry out these activities in cooperation with NATO. Secondly, what the Ombudsman called for today, Prof. Wiącek, is a press release. Yes, the Poles should be given reliable information and this reliable information is no threat from the point of view of state security. Thirdly, not only support for entrepreneurs, but also support for local governments of Podlaskie and Lublin voivodships modelled on the aid scheme for mountain communities initiated by me. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And finally, fourthly, providing strategic protection... Thank you very much. Now Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15. [[Voice from the room: Resumption.]] [[Voice from the room: I made a mistake.]] ...this eastern border of Poland. We will look at these actions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Circle15 - Direct Democracy concerning the regulation of the President of the Republic of Poland on the introduction of a state of emergency in the area of part of the Podlaskie voivodship and part of the Lublin voivodship. The members of the Committee of the Regions support the Government's request and the President's decision to introduce a state of emergency in the area indicated above. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] We do not agree to attempts to cross the state border illegally, to destroy the axes and, above all, to allow provocations, the consequences of which in the current geopolitical situation may prove fatal not only for the security of the European Union, but above all for our Polish community. Nor do we agree to compromise Poland, to embarrassing performances on the border played by irresponsible politicians and so-called. activists. One of the most important responsibilities of power, and by looking at our history, the most important thing that citizens decide to give up part of their freedom and money is to ensure security, including the security of borders. It's for safety, taught by the tragic cards of our history, we spend a large part of our defence budget in peacetime. The police and special forces provide us with internal security, and the army and border services provide us with external security. Therefore, we strongly condemn all attempts to hinder them from fulfilling their duties, reducing morale, verbal and mental humiliation, and revealing the identity of the officers. We are deeply concerned about the situation in which part of the Polish political class endangers the security of Poles, and with its attitude allows for the implementation of the hybrid war conducted by the Lukashenka regime against the entire European Union, the war in which economic immigrants are being exploited today. High Izbo! Our eastern border is also the external border of the European Union. Making sure that the catastrophic situations that took place in the south of Europe in 2015 and 2016 are not repeated is our duty to Poles and to all citizens of the European Union. To this day, in many Western countries, the social and economic consequences of that unthinkable decision are felt, in fact, the lack of decision. High Izbo! Understanding the seriousness of the situation currently taking place at the border of the European Union, taking into account the maneuvers of Russian and Belarusian troops, which, combined with the large number of immigrants brought to Belarus, could give rise to significant danger for our country, we support the regulation of the President of the Republic of Poland on the introduction of a state of emergency in parts of the Podlasie voivodship and Lublin voivodship. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u29	Ms Agnieszka Chasing, Polish Affairs, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u30	Mr. Marshal! Polish cases, yes, once again I remind you, such a circle. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Foreign policy, security policy, ladies and gentlemen, this is a policy that should be freed from emotional political struggle. The security priority of our fellow countrymen should be treated with the utmost seriousness by all political options. It's criminal to use it for political games. The state of emergency is a significant reduction in civil liberties. It is also a dangerous precedent that is, wakes up, or can cause social unrest. And we see what's happening, it's already happening. These social unrests are a kind of addition of oil to the fire. The threat of external security, causing internal unrest is simply irresponsible. Outside we should be a consolidated nation that is not divided and its image is coherent. The Prime Minister rightly called for us to be consolidated so that we could be united in defending our borders, and before that he had a very confrontational statement, one which did not indicate that he wanted full cooperation. Now there is virtually no humility, because the Prime Minister is not here, he is conducting various political talks, and he is not dealing with such a serious matter, listening to what the opposition or other parliamentarians have to say. The situation could be calmed down by factual information in secret or by using the National Security Council, but neither the government nor the president took advantage of this option. In case of internal and external security, we have tools for this. This would certainly mean that citizens would have more confidence in this, not afraid that there are some hidden goals. It would simply be more public agreement to introduce this short state of emergency. But unfortunately, it's been omitted. The omission of these constitutional tools is an extreme and cynical manipulation of public opinion. This does not change the fact that beyond our borders we have unpredictable dictatorships, that they are taking advantage of the situation, immigration policy and anxiety in Afghanistan, that government services are unable to deal with it, although they are trying to curse reality. But the fact that we are debating this today shows that they are simply unable to deal with this situation. The measure of this inept Polish foreign policy and diplomacy is the fact that this led to failure even in humanitarian matters. Inability to provide humanitarian aid by the Polish Red Cross - an organization that is protected by international law and carries out humanitarian activities even where there are wars - it shows that Polish diplomacy does not even translate into basic relations with our neighbours. With all the criticism and recognition of the inability of the Polish government to ensure the security of Poles, responsibility and some kind of blind blowing make us not vote in favour of repealing the President's decision. We don't really know what the real threat is, because the government thought that in such a serious case it would play cat and mouse with opposition again, which is obviously extremely irresponsible, but it is also a tradition. In important matters, all we really have is political games. You are holding a circus of such serious matters, not a serious debate. However, it is our duty to protect our borders and our European borders, and it seems - as this debate and all the information show - that without this state of emergency, the government simply cannot do it. Too bad he didn't admit it bravely, he didn't say it, but we've heard the news many times that everything is okay, that everything is great. Then what's the emergency for? You just can't handle it. That's why responsibility tells us to let you do this. Only this credit will be burdened with the fact that we will certainly, and most of the citizens, be watching you exploit this state that you are introducing to the people around the eastern border. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u31	Mr Łukasz Mejza, Member of the Independent Committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u32	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to address the President directly. [[Voice from the room: There's the president. He's sitting on the right.]] Mr. President! On behalf of all those for whom the security of Poland is important, I would like to thank you for this courageous but necessary decision to introduce a state of emergency - necessary, because only a naive observer is unable to notice that at the Belarusian border we are facing a public provocation and a hybrid war using demographic weapons, and the primary task of every country is to ensure the security of its citizens. [[Voice from the room: How long is it?]] This is also seen by our friends from Lithuania and Latvia, who also became victims of Putin's and Lukashenka's war appetite. As is the case in Lithuania and Latvia, Poland needs state men today in the face of a crisis at the border, not boys fired like a sputnik, running along the border with a bag from IKEA. [[Applause]] But even these crazy games and flying over the cuckoo nest of the East cuckoos by one of the Members pale at the weight of the words that have come to those who care about our safety in recent weeks. At this point I would like to express my great respect for Border Guard officers and soldiers of the Polish Army who guard our borders. Today, when you defend the Polish land from the Pack of Enemy Services, you yourselves are called the Pack of Dogs by those who quietly this Enemy they support, and the Navy flap should have a white flag clogged. And I want to say one word to you: thank you. [[Applause]] I was born in 1991. I thought a sad memory was a time when the secret weapon of the Eastern rulers was the parliamentary mandates of the Polish Sejm in irresponsible hands. In history, we've seen this kind of behavior before. They used to take place under the patronage of Catherine II, and today they are inspired by Putin and Lukashenka. The analogy with the marketplace is so obvious that it will be found by every primary school student, even one who did not read history books very carefully. But today we also see the passage of time since those moments and war lessons that have been done since 1792 by Eastern despots, because these methods of war have changed over the years. Once the villages and cities were burned, and today the Kremlin has more sublime ways and, metaphorically speaking, sends us a match as a gift to set ourselves on fire. Therefore, the introduction of a state of emergency is treated as a fire-fighting action caused by political pyromaniacs from Minsk and Moscow. [[Applause]] It must be said directly: today, after many years of functioning of the Lukashenka regime and many criminal activities, such as, for example, the arrest of an aircraft with oppositionist Roman Protasiewicz on board in recent weeks, it must be stated that we are dealing with a terrorist. And fighting terrorists requires concrete and tough action, not stroking. Many years ago, Charles de Gaulle expressed it in the words: Diplomats are useful only during beautiful weather. When it rains, they drown in every drop. And on the border with Belarus there is a storm, a storm of terror, which has long been the cause of Belarusian society, and now it is expanding to the west of Europe through Poland. And at this point, in such an important place for our homeland, we should all go beyond divisions and lead to a situation where we will not finally pursue politics, and we will lead to a state that will chase away these black clouds hovering over our borders. In my opinion, today's vote is not for a state of emergency or against, but this vote, as the classic used to say, will separate those who really care about the security of Poland, whose heart for Poland beats, from those whose heart has already frozen the eastern wind. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[I thought it would be better. It didn't work out. It didn't work out.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: It's embarrassing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u33	Mr Paweł Zalewski, Member of the Independent Committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u34	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Fellow Members! We're talking about safety. This is the most important issue for you, for the citizens. She should connect us all. ♪ And today on this one ♪ I did not hear any criticism or any words calling for wide opening of borders, I did not hear any words that would call for irresponsiblely not to protect borders, I did not hear any words that would question the interests of the national community in their intention. What did I hear? I heard that the opposition betrays the national interests of Poland... [[Member of Bożen Borys-Szopa: After all, Polishness is abnormal.]] ...I heard that the opposition is working for Lukashenka and Putin's plan. [[Voice from the room: True.]] Well, I remember, I have my years, so it was a few nice years ago, maybe a dozen, when your environment, which I was a part of, would never dare for its benefits, particular interests, electoral posts play the security of Poland. [[What are you talking about?]] You're doing it today. It is true that the security of Poland requires consolidation, first in this Chamber, also with the President of the Republic, who should take part in these deliberations, if indeed this threat, as you say, would be this, because the consolidation of the state, as history teaches us, consolidation of political forces is an absolute key, an absolute condition for dealing with such serious problems. Is what you are presenting today any step towards consolidation? No. This is the country you share, this is the country you share in this room. I will say more: you generalize the speeches of various people who in the media publicly present their views, those who are not in any way related to the opposition. It's like it's the opposition's opinion. [[Voice from the room: Jachira...]] [[Voice from the room: It's you.]] The opposition, I understand, is behind border protection. I've talked about it many times myself, and I've talked about it many times. But what do we have in return? You have focused the attention of the public, Poles, on a narrow section of the border, where 32 people have become not only hostages of Lukashenka, but also your internal policy, to convince all Poles that the entire border is safe and protected. What's the truth? The border is holes like a sieve, because you report that every day several dozen or even several hundred groups pass through it. [[He's trying. There's a difference.]] No, no, no, he's not trying. At least a few hundred people It's gone, and you don't have the slightest information about it. [[Voice from the room: How do you know that?]] That's what you're responsible for, and that's what you'll be cleared for. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] [[Why are you lying? Man, take it easy.]] Well, you today want to convince Poles that not providing humanitarian aid to 32 people at the border means that it is effectively blocked. That's not true. [[You're the one who's lying.]] It's a lie, because in fact, the border is jammed like a sieve. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Are you a Polish Member?]] You're talking about the dangers caused by the Zapad exercises. I'm the one asking, are you the Minister of Defense here? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] There isn't. Mr. Minister of Defense! I hope that his colleagues will tell him: Where is the mobilization of the army, and where is the dislocation of the troops? [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] Yes, undoubtedly, the Territorial Defence Forces. There's no doubt they can handle the Specnazu groups. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Voice from the room: Not only that.]] [[All you have to do is read the media, so you'll know.]] Well, you are playing security - the highest value that should unite us in this room, and all Poles - just to gain some political advantage. The Minister of the Interior, whose speech I listened to with great attention and who really had the most substantive speech today, did not convince me in any way why the introduction of a state of emergency would help him to protect the Polish border. He convinced me why journalists should not be allowed there: not to tell the Poles how deep the border is. [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] Well, given all this, unfortunately, I cannot vote in favour of a state of emergency. I will support the proposal to repeal it. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] So that you will never play Poland's security again in your internal games. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Send a telegram to Lukashenka.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u35	Members have asked questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Please, as the first Mr Bartłomiej Sienkiewicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What's going on in this room? On the one hand, you say that we are actually at war, and on the other hand the head of state, the head of state, does not even want to declare a state of emergency, just sends his spokesperson and his place is empty today. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] You're scaring us all of us with some incredible threat, but your president obviously doesn't think so. [[Voice from the Chamber: President of Poland.]] [[President of the Republic of Poland.]] What happens in this Chamber if the Deputy Prime Minister for Security is just going out in the middle of a debate on a key matter for state security? I'll tell you what's going on. And isn't that really a threat, just covering up your inability? Everything is falling apart in your hands. [[We've got rocks falling apart, rocks.]] You're falling apart in the E.R., and you're falling apart because the police are killing people instead of protecting them. [[Applause]] And your whole story is falling apart about the fact that you are really defending Poland. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] You are not defending Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u37	Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Where's President Duda? Even General Jaruzelski had the courage to look the public in the eye and declare martial law. [[Kaska, come on.]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] President Duda isn't here. Where's the Minister of National Defence? You say Prime Minister Morawiecki is talking about an attack. If there's an attack, there should be martial law... [[Don't embarrass yourself, Member.]] Where's the Minister of National Defence? [[She's good.]] [[Voice from the hall: Where is the Wizard?]] Why is Minister Kaminski lying all the time? [[Voice from the room: Because he's a liar.]] Lying and cynically chasing the cruelty of Lukashenka. He's lying about these 32 people - Afghans and Afghans - who are sitting in Usnarz. The dreamer has become a starter and will be a symbol of your... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Voice from the room: as many questions as possible.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u39	Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think it is undisputed that state security and border security, ensuring the security of Poland is the most important task for the constitutional authorities of our country, but also for Parliament. All the excesses that happened at the border, in my opinion, aren't helping. On the other hand, I cannot agree with the statement made by the Prime Minister of the Polish Government, who says: you play a role written in Minsk and Moscow. I don't play such a role, I don't agree with such an assessment, I protest against such an assessment. [[Applause]] This is not an incentive for dialogue and conversation. We were ready to have this conversation. We wanted to hear the Prime Minister's opinion. Wasn't enough time for you to have a cup of tea together and tell us what the important threats to you are to inform the representatives of all the clubs? It really doesn't cost much. And then this call (the Prime Minister's bell) would be very effective. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u41	Mr Jakub Kulesza, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This state of emergency is only a patch applied to the inability of governments to secure borders not only against the illegal crossing of the border in the framework of a wide-ranging action of a service that our services have known about for years, also against a group of activists who want to break the law, crossing the border. It is a patch on this provisional fence that you have put up and which is by no means 4 m. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki... This fence is so low. This fence is hung with cleaning brushes, freely traversed by ordinary ladders by illegal migrants, as well as by activists cooperating with certain opposition policies. That's how easy this fence is to beat. In addition to the patch you apply, you need a real one, a decent one, such as on another border of the Schengen area, the Hungarian-Serbian border, a decent wall, a decent fence. This is what it looks like in serious countries and this (Bingle) from the state... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Discredited.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u43	Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few legal questions that we have been asking since the request for a state of emergency has been made and which still do not have an answer. How you have fulfilled the condition of last resort laid down in Article. 228 Constitution of the Republic of Poland? What mere constitutional measures have you considered to be insufficient? Why didn't you take advantage, for example? in Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 60 laws on voivodeship and government administration? After all, many times in the past, on the basis of this provision, there has been a ban on entry into the border area, and these prohibitions have usually been observed. Has the obligation of Article been fulfilled. The 7th Emergency Act? The obligation to notify the introduction of this state to UN Secretary-Generals and the Council of Europe? Finally, how you implement the Article. The 22th Emergency Act, which orders the Council of Ministers... [[The bell, the Vice Marshal turns off the microphone, the Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u45	Mr Adam Szłapka, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u46	High Izbo! Mr. President! Today we have an unprecedented debate, for the first time since 1989 we are debating the introduction of a state of emergency in Poland. So the Polish government has admitted that it is not dealing with normal tools with the situation at the border. And here, in fact, there is a need for consensus and national agreement, which Mr Morawiecki is talking about. But what did you do to work out this consensus? Was there a National Security Council meeting? Was there a meeting at KPRM? Did Minister Kaminski come to the meeting of the Special Services Committee to inform Members of the situation? No, he didn't. The committee chairman said that such a committee was not needed. To give justice, I have to say the committee was doing something. She was visiting the border at the time. Attention, she was visiting the western border. When the state of emergency was introduced, representatives of the Special Services Commission watched the mine in Turów. Bravo. But that's not all. I specifically went on Friday, yesterday and Monday, which is today, to see if there was any material on the service committee. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Is that yesterday or today?]] There aren't any. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u47	Mr Maciej Necessary, Left. [[Voice from the courtroom: Mr. Marshal, five minutes...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask about the current state of health of people who are still at the border in Usnarz. [[Applause]] [[That's a question for Lukashenka.]] Unfortunately, through your decision to introduce martial law for the past few days, translators working with the Saving Foundation can't ask that. Thanks to the voices I'm hearing now, I have no doubt that the state of health... [[Voice from the room: Extend time.]] ...people who have been on the Polish border for many weeks, at your fingertips from Polish bordermen, do not care much. You lied about their fate many times. [[A humanitarian convoy has been sent.]] You need a state of emergency to hide the truth about what's happening at the border. I myself, being at the border, looking into the eyes of the Afghan women present, listened simultaneously to the spokeswoman of the Border Guard who said that there were only men there. [[...The Afghans.]] That's why you're in a state of emergency, so you can lie with impunity, break the law, and hide what's happening at the border right now. That's the only reason he's being introduced. There is no real danger (the bell) for safety... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u49	Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u50	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! From this speaker today it was said that the border was not sealed. That's a fact. Instead of directing the services to the eastern border, the police - you even talked about the army - went to Warsaw to protect the government. Instead of building a wall on the border, you built a three-meter gate in the Sejm. Instead of focusing on the safety of Poles, you were thinking about how to raise support posts instead of border posts. That's what you do. Today in the discussion you are talking about support. What are you doing, Prime Minister? He just sits there and talks all the time. He's not interested in this debate at all. Where's the Deputy Prime Minister for Security Affairs? Has he gone to the shelter yet? He's not here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Where's the president? How is this debate to be held? [[Listen to your...]] In the Podlaskie Voivodship people are actually afraid, but this state of emergency doesn't change anything. Earlier, you said you'd protect the sublasian bell... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u51	Mr Robert Tyszkiewicz, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u52	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! I wanted to ask if the government is aware that it has introduced a state of emergency in the border areas of Podlasie at the expense of the local population, which is mainly based on tourism. Białowieża and Kruszyniany, tourist pearls, today they look like extinct. This is a concrete effect, maybe the only, introduction of a state of emergency. Thousands of people and family businesses have been deprived of their income every day. You're expecting 65 percent compensation. This is a joke. That's not enough. The compensation must be at least 80%. The compensation must apply not only to companies operating in an area covered by a state of emergency, but also to all companies which are linked to tourism activities. The closure of Białowieża, the lockdown in the Białowieża Forest affects the entire region. This has to be taken into account, too. One last thing. This terrible decision about the state (the bell) of a unique... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u53	Mr Maciej Gdula, Left Club. You're welcome. Mr President, you are done.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I will refer to what Mr Dziambor said at the beginning. A situation where Members were not allowed to enter the border was a situation of violation of the law. Polish officers, hindering the execution of the Member's mandate, broke the law, and you enjoy it. [[Applause]] You're freelancers for ten, for ten rubles exactly. Change your name from Confederation to embarrassment. That's who you are. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I'm going to break the law by the officers. Why, Minister, do Polish officers apply Belarusian standards? Why are you giving up Luke's field? Why are journalists present at the border of Belarus? Why are you giving up Luke's field? Why can he be someone who applies humane principles to people? Why are you giving him the field? Minister Kaminski, these people on the border are not tourism. Tourism is when you go to all-inclusive, and they run away... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u55	Mr Paweł Kowal, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u56	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! If this is an emergency, take it seriously and settle your conflicts with our allies: with the United States, with the countries of the European Union. You are in no position today to deal effectively with any important matter in Eastern politics in the West. [[Applause]] Stand down from the agreements with Putin's allies in Europe. If we hear from this tribune that the threat is Putin and Lukashenka, how do you sign political agreements with the parties that work with them? [[Applause]] On some matter, at least in this matter, which concerns the security of the country, be at last yes, yes, no, no - be straight and tell the truth. Mr. President, you're gonna ruin the platform. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u57	Mr Paweł Krutul, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President, absent! The approval of the state of emergency has contributed to the next economic crisis of local self-government entrepreneurs, which has just risen from the crisis caused by COVID-19. Why do you and the governing camp not at the same time grant the people living on the border with Belarus, the people of Podlasie and Lublin, financial compensation that will ensure that companies maintain their current employment status? And you're not just forcing them to get fired. I call on the Law and Justice to introduce urgent funding for local government companies that have been subject to a state of emergency. I ask specifically when such a financial injection will be launched for the regions of Podlasie and Lublin. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u59	Mrs Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I wanted to ask you how it is possible that one part of your government, with great commitment, great effort, also putting itself in danger in some cases, is able to bring in 1,000. Afghans to Poland and try to ensure their safety, and on the other hand you do not notice 32 people. To this extent you do not notice that you are unable to allow them a doctor, you are not able to help them. The only words that involved those 32 people on the border, Minister Kaminski said, saying that they should not really be cared for, because they are rich, but the rich do not run away from bombs. Minister! I remember your great commitment to the Chechens, I remember your sensitivity. Where did she go at this point? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u61	Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u62	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! Where are you? You introduced a state of emergency, condemning entrepreneurs from the Podlaskie Voivodeship to a specific death. After a year's lockdown today, you're completely shutting off their oxygen. Farm tourism, restaurants, hotels, travel agencies, tourist guides - they lost their livelihood overnight. Minister, why aren't we investigating this bill today? [[What are you talking about?]] Why don't you declare that you'll compensate them for all the losses they've suffered because of this state of emergency? Minister, 65%. ? This is some kind of grim joke. I hope that you will withdraw from this decision as soon as possible and return much, much more. Minister, what about the employees? What about the companies outside the... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u63	Mr Tomasz Szymański, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Just a moment ago, on 24 August, during the visit of the bureau of the Committee on Home Affairs and Administration, the government mouthed Mr. Vice Minister of Home Affairs and the Head of the Border Guard said that there is no real threat to the security of the eastern border, and after a week the same government introduces a state of emergency, disorganizing the lives of thousands of people and cutting you, Poles from reliable information and what is happening at the border. High Izbo! Is it not so that, for a weak authority, the instrument for maintaining it is to increase the threat of external security? Prime Minister! Do you mean protecting Poles and Poles... [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] ...or the political security of the rulers? Mr. Kaczyński, who isn't here! Or maybe the enemy isn't really out of the country, but he's in your power camp? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u65	Mr Dariusz Joński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u66	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The borders should be tight, the borders should be defended impeccably to the end, but wherever we deal with women, with children waiting for our help, we should give them a bottle of water. And it doesn't matter if it's the border with Belarus or if it's the desert. Well, both of you are out of your league. You didn't make it. In return, you proposed a state of emergency. Why? And to distract from stealing, from nepotism, from inflation, from expensive, from the protest of medical rescuers and from the liquidation of independent media. But I have a question from here. Today, the government spokesperson spoke about compensation for entrepreneurs, which will refer to the amounts they made last year during the pandemic. How many entrepreneurs are going to die, how many entrepreneurs are going to fail (the bell) because of what you're doing? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u67	Małgorzata Tracz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u68	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! For 2 weeks on the Polish-Belarusian border a fence has been created consisting of three layers of sharp wire. It's nothing more than the traps placed by Minister Błaszczak on humans and animals. Already the military - General Gocul - noticed that Błaszczak's traps would fall into animals and die in torment. It was only when we presented this problem as the Greens that you started putting up nets to protect animals from mutilation. But it's not enough. Today, it is necessary to create transitions for animals throughout ecological corridors. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Otherwise, populations of less and more endangered species simply die out. Do you plan to create such passageways for animals? Have you consulted naturalists and scientists on the construction of this fence? How many animals have lost their lives in Błaszczak's traps? We want the truth (the bell), not propaganda. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u69	Mr Czesław Mroczek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It turned out that the PiS government could not protect the Polish border, which from the Belarusian side illegally exceeded hundreds of people. Yet it has been known for months that the Belarusian regime will use illegal migration to trigger a crisis at the border. The PiS government has not benefited from the assistance of the EU institutions and NATO forces. Were you afraid to reveal your incompetence and incompetence? President Andrzej Duda saw no reason to convene a meeting of the National Security Council, and the Sejm Commissions: Special Services, Administration and Home Affairs and National Defence did not receive information about threats and the operation of the services. You're trying to throw your guilt into the opposition. You're cutting public opinion and parliament off information. You're hiding behind the Border Guard and the Army to hide... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Bożen Borys-Raccoon: We are not hiding anywhere.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u71	Ms Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Constitution defines precisely when you can reach for a state of emergency. The determination of the border situation indicated in the Regulation is not such a condition. We have a true state of emergency in relations with the European Union. The threat is PLN 770 billion because Minister Ziobro himself admitted to be in a hybrid war. You don't believe these conditions exist. You threw the press away, but weddings can be organized. The border's supposed to be compromised, and the president's playing at the game. Instead of introducing a state of emergency, can you finally wake up your own Deputy Prime Minister for Security? He could have slept on December 13th because nothing depended on him then, but now let's do it. [[But he's got complexes.]] You submit a document to the Sejm, which is a mockery of the Constitution, and you say we should support it? If we let you do this once now, you're gonna put in another state of emergency just when you feel like it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u73	Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u74	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Protecting borders is not only our right, but also our sacred duty. Today, after 6 years of government, the PiS admits that under normal conditions it is not able to guarantee the security of our borders. But you can't blame it on the opposition anymore because it's been six years. Here, unfortunately, there is another element. You want to hide the cost, the inflation, the health care situation, the agricultural situation. But the sad thing is that the state for the short-term political interest, for the polls, is playing the security of our country. National approval is needed for this. Prime Minister! You left, and you started by attacking the opposition. This can win a battle, but not a war. I demand from the government, from you, Prime Minister, rapid support for entrepreneurs (the bell), but also for local governments, because they will suffer the most. [[Applause]] [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u75	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We will be voting on this in a moment. [[There's no people.]] I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 19 mins 07 hrs. 19 min 15]] I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of item 36 of the agenda: Review of the Regulation of the President of the Republic of Poland of 2 September 2021 on the introduction of a state of emergency in the area of part of the Podlaskie voivodship and part of the Lublin voivodship. A request for repeal of the Regulation of the President of the Republic of Poland of 2 September 2021 on the introduction of a state of emergency in the area of part of the Podlaskie Voivodship and part of the Lublin Voivodship was submitted in the discussion. According to Art. 231 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland of the Sejm may repeal the President's regulation by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. I will put the proposal to repeal the regulation to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of repealing the regulation of the President of the Republic of Poland of 2 September 2021 on the introduction of a state of emergency in the area of part of the Podlaskie Voivodeship and part of the Lublin Voivodeship, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. For - 168, 247 - against, 20 abstentions. The Sejm did not repeal the regulation of the President of the Republic of Poland in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. [[Applause]] This concludes the agenda item scheduled for 6 September this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. The first statement will be made by Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u76	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My voters from Bydgoszcz, from Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodeship, asked me to ask Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and Prime Minister Kaczyński why they remember Poles so well when it comes to further taxes and reaching into the pockets of Poles, and so little do they remember about them when they come to talk about pay for work, especially when nurses, medical rescuers, resident doctors, teachers, administrative staff of schools, courts, social security officials and other offices ask about work and salaries. Some professional groups are losing patience and protesting. Instead of giving workers a decent salary, government heads have such sick ideas as directing volunteers from the Territorial Defence Army to drive ambulances or sending a helicopter to collisions and road events in Warsaw, to which a regular ambulance would go in normal health care management, because it was 150 m from the ambulance headquarters. A little more and our government will come up with the idea of forced integration into the Territorial Defence Army of the entire budget. Today the Government of the United Right has money for everything: and for the palace of Saski for 2 billion, and for the New Deal, and for the new programs of Minister Czarnek, and for the financing of the Smolensk commission of ministers Błaszczak and Macierewicz. At the same time, this government does not want to give money for wage increases for the budgetary sphere, although these salaries were mostly and are close to minimum wages, i.e. wages calculated for normal survival to the first rather than normal family life and development. Faced with motor inflation, in a situation of rising prices of food, services, energy or fuels, the freezing of wages means de facto a significant, even a dozen percent reduction in the purchasing opportunities of Poles. By freezing the wages of the budget, the government consciously condemns the employees of this sphere to a deterioration in their quality of life and affects the frequent increase in debt in banks and parabanks. The voters point out that in August the government took care of high increases for itself and for budget chosen people: the President, Prime Minister, Marshals, Ministers, Members, Senators and even the President of the National Bank of Poland. So for members of the government and for the elite of the budget sphere, the money for the raises are, and for the private employees, there is no budget for the raises. Today's new PiS deal is associated mainly with expensive and significant deterioration of living conditions. That is why, through me, they ask the Prime Minister: Will the staff of the budgetary sphere receive real increases this year and next year, and if they are above almost 6% inflation? Dear Prime Minister Morawiecki, Teachers, school administrative staff, courts, social security officials and other offices are waiting for a clear signal from you. Dear Prime Minister, Dear Minister of Health! On 11 September there will be a large demonstration of medical professionals: doctors, nurses, paramedics and all others. Or should we sit down with them before 9/11 and talk about the problems of this budget sphere? They're waiting for such a bright signal. In the cases I was talking about here, I spoke with the Parliamentary Interpellation. I hope that the Prime Minister will respond in detail to my conclusions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u77	Thank you. I invite Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u78	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The state of emergency, which the Sejm has not abolished today, is the first constitutional emergency since the martial law in 1981. The authorities decided to suspend freedom of movement, freedom of assembly, but also freedom to take photographs or request public information in areas near the border with Belarus. The government tells us that the cause is the threat arising from the pressure exerted by the Belarusian authorities at the border and the risk of illegal crossing by refugees. However, this is only an official explanation. It is true that groups of refugees appear at the border with Belarus who want to cross the border and be placed under international protection in accordance with the Geneva Convention. For the last few weeks, we have seen the drama of a group from Afghanistan pushed out by the Belarusian service, which is camping in the vicinity of Usnarz Górny, whose way replaced Polish services with deaf for applications for international protection. Non-governmental organisations, medical care, humanitarian aid were not allowed in the nomadic area. Even on purpose, attempts to contact refugees were hindered by jamming conversations with engines. At the same time, the government has been involved in numerous manipulations, showing that people on the border do not come from Afghanistan, but from other countries, that they have not applied for international protection, that they have the means of life received from the Belarusian side. And these messages were verified by the media arriving at the scene, by NGOs or by Members and Members who made contact with refugees. Thanks to the social control of Polish uniforms, numerous examples of illegal pushbacks were established, i.e. catching people who crossed borders, taking documents and phones from them and moving them to the forest outside the Polish border. We have also seen that refugees must draw water from the nearby river because they are not given basic assistance. Such actions of the Border Guard concern many groups, not just the ones in Usnarz Górny. The government claims that such a situation poses a threat. I agree, but it is not the safety of Poland that is at risk, but its good name. The threat is that our country cannot cope with the difficult situation at the border by applying existing law, but must introduce a state of emergency and suspend constitutional rights. The danger is that our uniformed services apply as much inhuman and despicable practices to people seeking help as to Belarusian services. The threat is that the practice of the operation of our services, the services of the modern democratic rule of law, which we want to consider ourselves to be, tramples human rights as well as the services of the Belarusian dictatorship of Lukashenka, which we have imposed sanctions on ourselves even recently, among others. For violating human rights. The danger is that standing opposite Polish and Belarusian borderors it would be difficult to distinguish between different uniforms. That is why the government introduces a state of emergency and prohibits free movement so that we do not come to see it. It is forbidden to gather so that we are not able to protest on the ground about the activities of the services. It prohibits us from taking photographs so that we cannot document the violation of the law and trample on the human rights that Polish uniforms do. He refuses to have access to information so that we can't know what's going on at the border and what they're doing to a uniform in our common name as representatives of the state. The government doesn't need a state of emergency to deal with this situation. I don't need it. These measures, which are being taken within this state, are designed to solve the problem of social control, because from now on, the authorities will be able to do what they want at the border and show the public what they want. All information about the situation at the border, any photograph or information about the situation, will be edited by the government in the way it wants to show the problem, and no one will be able to find out. [[Voice from the room: You will have pictures from Belarus. Watch the Belarusian TV.]] This is a real threat. The government is afraid that at the Polish-Belarusian border its true face will be seen: heartless, brutal assholes who play the cruel ping-pong on the Polish-Belarusian border with the lives of the hungry, frozen and frightened people running from their homes to a safe place, warmth and roof over their heads. If that's the goal, it's too late. This real face has already been seen by the whole of Poland and the international public. And this face of yours will be remembered, you can be sure of that. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Watch Belarusian TV.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u79	Thank you. Please, Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u80	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In recent weeks Poland has not applied the Convention on the Status of Refugees, has violated European law, undermines fundamental humanitarian values. Refugees and refugees are prevented from submitting asylum applications. The Border Guard is pushing them to Belarus. He often does that many times. Women and children are among those who are so inhumanly treated. A group of refugees and refugees from Afghanistan have been on the border for almost a month. We know who they are. We know their names, their names, where they worked. They have here, on the Polish side, their legal representatives. They are ready to go through the entire legal procedure for international asylum. In Poland there are organisations that are able to cover these people, but also other, asylum seekers, support and assistance. But it's not possible. Starving, chilled, hiding from fatigue, people were considered enemies and threats by the Polish government, who actually realized this scenario written by Lukashenka. And that's something to be said. Government action is not an effective defence of borders, it is a violation of the law to which we, as a society and a state, should not agree. This is weakening Poland. It's division building. It's capitalizing political capital on hate. And it's a strategy that we've seen in law and justice many times over the years. It is also worth saying at this point that what you are doing is building axes not only from refugees from the Middle East, not just from Afghans and Afghans. You are building a network that will make refugees and refugees from Belarus unable to flee the country. The opponents, dissidents, prisoners and tortured persons of the Lukashenka regime have so far benefited from the green border, exceeded it, submitted asylum applications and, after obtaining the necessary permits, found work and lived, worked in Poland. It is now difficult and, as the Belarusians themselves say, often impossible. There's no way to escape, even though they're being tortured in Belarusian prisons. They must be hiding from Belarusian services. It is your action that supports the Lukashenka regime, and we cannot accept it. So I would like to call for the application of international law, for compliance with the refugee convention and for implementing those scenarios that are good for Poland, for our society, and not for Lukashenka, not for his services. And to the end. No man is illegal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u81	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u82	The 82nd anniversary of the outbreak of World War II and the September 1939 campaign. Krzysztof Kamil Baczyński, one of his most beautiful poems, titled "Singing and Ringing of Horses." Today, if someone wants and listens carefully to the sound of September's wind, they will hear an echo of what happened 82 years ago. There aren't many witnesses left to the horrors of those days. We must remember the September 1939 campaign and pass on this knowledge to our children. The memory of the fact that in September 1939 the Polish state stood alone against the unprecedented aggression of its neighbours: Germany and the Soviet Union, weakening among the young generation, which seems to be a natural process due to the increasing distance of time, but that is why it constantly and constantly requires refreshment and reminder. And yet on September 1, 1939 for Poles, the world really ended. Despite desperate defense, our army, after more than a month of hard fighting, has succumbed to the aggressors. No one has ever known that the war that came would be different from the war before. It was not expected that after World War I the next one could be even worse. And she was. For the first time, German and Russian aggressors were not only about acquiring new land or wealth, but about destroying entire nations that did not form part of the idea of the Nazi state, but also about Stalin's order of the new world. Poland was the first country to say no to this vision. Piotrkowska's land during the September fights was hard to experience. In the vicinity of Piotrków Trybunalski, the northern group of the army of Prussia was formed. This large unit, intended by the Polish chieftain, was to be used for one of the main counterattacks. Unfortunately, breaking the Polish front by the Germans at the interface between the Army and the Army of Kraków caused Piotrków to be on the first line of the front. The city was heavily bombed, losing a large part of its buildings. Luftwaffe destroyed one of the most representative parts of the city, ul. Kaliska also destroyed buildings in which during World War I there were offices of the Second Legion Brigade, and many others. The German attack on unprepared Polish troops and organizational chaos among the Polish command made the army of Prussia quickly destroyed. However, the Polish soldier gave examples of fantastic courage and bravery. A drama 77 took place south of Piotrków Trybunalski. regiment infantry colonel. Sienkiewicz, who was not reached by the order calling off the attack, and the unit was literally beaten to the leg after the early night's success. The banner, the most sacred symbol for the soldier, miraculously saved the chaplain of the unit. Soldiers' graves are located in a cemetery in Longinówka. Stunned by Polish courage, the Germans saluted Polish fallen soldiers. In the Borowskie Mountains he defended himself 2. The regiment of infantry colonel. Czyżewski, stopping the attack of the entire German armored corps. The biggest battle of the September campaign took place under the Krzysztoporska and Jezov. A lonely fight was fought by Kr. Stefan Karashewski, destroying several German tanks and stopping the German attack for several hours. Located a dozen kilometres from Piotrków, the town of Sulejów, like Guernica on 4 September, was wiped out from the surface by the mass bombing of the Knights of Luftwaffe. The city was hit by 70%. The civilian population has suffered everywhere. The Germans did not hesitate to commit the worst crimes in retaliation for the resistance of the Polish army. Whole villages were burned and their inhabitants were shot. It was in Piotrków that the German invaders organized the first ghetto for the Jewish population in Europe and Poland, starting mass murder on this nation. Piotrków was not a big city, he was not one of the most important ones, but it was in him that focused the entire German cruelty of war in the lens. Today, many politicians report back the events of those days, treating them as if they were a shameful chapter in our history. Well, it is indeed a shameful chapter, but not for Poles, not for piotrkowians and not for inhabitants of this land, but for those who started this conflict, and for Polish supporters, of course, which I am trying to remind you of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u83	Thank you. Please, Mrs Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u84	Mr Kaczyński, Chairman of the Committee on Security, Mrs. Marshal! This House has just allowed silence on what is happening at the border. Thus, we passed judgment on those 32 people who in Usnarz are vegging, hungry, cold, sick and thirsty. During all this time, Vice Prime Minister Kaczyński was not present in charge of security. Why? Because the only real threat to this cowardly power is the truth about how these people are treated. This truth was passed on by independent journalists, activists, and few Members. That's why a state of emergency was introduced, and we had to leave. Out of sight, that's from the heart, isn't it? You're just forgetting that we're a nation of refugees, too. These 10 million Poles and Poles abroad were not found there by chance. They're there because someone at the most difficult moment of their lives reached out to them. We are a nation of refugees, because history shows that every once in a while we destroy our own sovereignty. And now again, we have a government that pushes us out of our home, that is, from the European Union, destroying our alliances, ruining us economically, economically, party corruption and propaganda, haunting judges. The law doesn't mean anything anymore, because either you break it, or you don't print it, or you reconstruct it. The church and religion are a smoke screen for you. I was hungry, and you didn't give me food, you didn't let me drink, you didn't feed me. This is your gospel. You have now led to the suspension of EUR 57 billion of aid for Poland. It's crazy expensive. Soon, as a result of your governments, we will be refugees again. But then will somebody help us? Or will they behave like us today and on our western border stretch barbed wire? What are you gonna do? We'll be refugees. Because who wants to live in a country that doesn't respect human rights, censors the media? Whose country will it be? Nationalists? Sick of hating women, strangers and gays, and yet proud of it? These people on the border were fleeing religious fanaticism and are unlucky to have become a fanatical Poland on their way to the free world. Because what's the difference between Minister Czarnek, Ziobro, Moustache or Rydzyk from the Taliban? Both bring in the religious state, have mouths full of clichés about love, and they really are the oppressors. Maybe in 50 years there'll be a fair one, and just like President Kwasniewski apologized for Silke, he'll apologize for Usnarz. But these people are suffering today and I have no doubt that you would not let Jesus in, that you would destroy his phone, and that Mary would scream in vain all night, like one of the women on the border today: please help us, we are dying here. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u85	There are 20 million Poles abroad, not 10. I invite Mr Mark Rutka, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u86	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The hero behind the lowest national - so short can characterize the situation of medical rescuers, people who are on the front line fighting for our lives and health, people who also showed real heroism and civic attitude during the pandemic. Rescuers in the 30-degree heat, but also in the 20-degree cold, hidden behind the hatches, dressed in suits, did not protest during the pandemic, did not talk about increases or improvement of working conditions. Like all of us, rescuers and their families have limited patience, mental and physical endurance. The difficult situation in medical rescue is not the result of a pandemic, although power has accustomed us to the fact that it is easy to blame everything on a pandemic. This situation is the result of negligence over the years. It's also about the last six years. He's been running the PiS for six years. Paramedics really took a long time to get to work. above strength, working at risk of life, a job that is special because it saves another life, and this work today is valued at the lowest national level. Two years ago, together with a group of Members and Members, I founded a Parliamentary Team on the Medical Rescue System in the Sejm, because the Left is aware that deep changes in the health care system in Poland are necessary, of course, if you really think about the future of Poles and Poles. A meeting of the Parliamentary Group on the Medical Rescue System was held on 13 February. R., was devoted to the directions of development and working conditions of medical rescuers. This meeting was attended by representatives of the medical lifeguard trade unions at my invitation. Medical paramedics were there, they were practitioners, but they were also representatives of the health department. We have pointed out how the situation in medical rescue, which has been going on for many years, is dangerous for the stability of the whole health system and the dangers it will pose for the future. This concerned, above all, the issue of employment conditions - employment conditions, I stress, and not necessarily just wage conditions. But power knows better. At least that's what it seems to be. So? What was inevitable happened was what many experts have been talking about for years. The protest of the rescuers has become a fact. Ambulances without cast became a fact, among others. in Wrocław, Białystok, Warsaw, Łomża, Sulechów or Kościerzyn. Power forgot that an ambulance without a lifeguard was just a car. Last Friday, out of 80 emergency teams in the capital emergency room, 38 units of ambulance did not leave, so almost half of the entire state of the capital emergency. Imagine what would have happened if half the buses hadn't gone to Warsaw every day if half the trams hadn't gone. He'd be paralyzed. That's good, Minister. I don't think it is. The Minister is reassured that everything is under control. But how is it under control if the Mazovian voivode has to ask for help from the Ministry of Defense? It must be emphasized with all its power that medical paramedics are not just about money. Power would like to bring this to the point that they're all about earnings. A no less important demand for this environment is the demand for which rescue workers have been fighting for years. It's a paramedic's law and the introduction of a government of paramedics, similar to what nurses and doctors have. Decent working conditions and wages across the country and on the scale of the whole medical rescue system are only PLN 350.400 million. That money's in the budget. It's not true, as one representative of the President's Office says, that power doesn't have a money-printing machine. Observing the generous expenditures of the current power, I think that this power machine does, however, have, since 500 million are spent on IPN and 2 billion are spent on rebuilding the Saski Palace. It's time for real changes in the medical rescue system.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u87	Thank you. As the last Mrs Anna Wojciechowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u88	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the government introduced a state of emergency. Someone who survived martial law must be concerned about this innovation today in our country... You're referring to a state of national security threat. The reason are refugees: hungry, frozen people, 30 people, and Members of the opposition, a young Member and a Member who simply wanted to help people in need in the world. A big alarm has been raised, and I'm afraid it's just a distraction from the situation we're in these days. You're out of order in the country, you've got paramedic strikes, there's increases in stores and rising inflation. Polish Load is thoughtless and makes the situation of Poles even worse. The European Union shall suspend payment to the National Reconstruction Plan. There would still be much, much to be said about the problems of today: these are the courts, that is education, these are the issues and problems of farmers, including those who are on strike. The moods in the country are getting worse, you can't seal the borders of the country. Do we not have an army, or do we not have a service, or do we really need to introduce this state of emergency? And here's what I'm going to say: this is just your way of extending power forever. You're worried about your own stools, that's fear of early elections. That's the fear of losing power. Now there is an exceptional state of border areas, in a month there may be another two voivodships, and in the end a special state can be covered by the whole country - and after the elections. Because what kind of government can't secure a state line by spending billions on arms? Hundreds of people die at that time because of the lack of resources for treatment, the lack of treatment, despite the fact that there are drugs in the world that could help them, but the Polish government cannot provide them with this treatment. What kind of country is it that can't provide people with security, peace and opportunities for development? I will tell you: this is our country, this is Poland. This is what Poland is like.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u89	Oh, my God, Member. Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u90	Declaration on Danuta Siedzikny, on the occasion of the 75th anniversary of her death. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Danuta Siedzikovna ps. Inka is a character who doesn't need to be introduced to anyone. Inka joined the Home Army when she was only 15. She was a paramedic at Stanisław Wołonciej's branch of Konusa, a sub-commander of the Lupaszki branch, and also served in other branches of the AK, among others. in Zdzisław Badocha, where she also served as a liaison. She was involved in attacks at the police and UB headquarters. She was captured trying to get medical supplies, arrested on July 20, 1946. The two-hour trial, during which Inka could not even read the indictment, ended with a double sentence of the death penalty. The Memorable Flu of Inki: Tell my grandmother that I behaved properly, historians interpret as refusing to sign her request for pardon. This request, sent by the defender of the girl, was, of course, rejected by Bolesław Bierut. On August 28, 1946, the Inka was shot in the back of the head. In 1991 the Voivodeship Court decided that Inka was acting in favour of Poland's independence. She was posthumously promoted to the rank of lieutenant. Hello and praise the heroes!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u91	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As a Member from Pomerania, I would like to inform you about the implementation of important investments in municipalities in which once-decommissioned state-owned agricultural enterprises operated. The municipalities in the powiats polski, Lęborski and Bytowski received funding for investments in which PGRs functioned in the past. The municipalities will receive funds of PLN 12 million as part of the first phase of equalising the chances of unfair systemic transformation of the 1990s. These are among others. investments such as: - the construction of a common room with a library point in the municipality of Damnica, - reconstruction of roads on the estate with lighting, rain and sanitation in the municipality of Głowczyce, - reconstruction and equipment of the CSR building in the municipality of Kępice, - land development for recreational sites in the municipality of Kołczygłów, - construction of a common room in the municipality of Cewice. Other municipalities in the other counties also received support. This is a great opportunity for those often forgotten municipalities who deserve such assistance. There are many municipalities in my constituency that have lost to the liquidation of PGRs. The support of the Popegeer municipalities from the Government Local Investment Fund is a huge opportunity for development. These municipalities will be provided with funds to finance or finance investment and investment purchases. I am pleased that soon as part of the government programme of Poland, the Load will be launched another financial package aimed at the municipalities affected by the wrong economic transformation of these areas in the early 1990s.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! From media information it appears that among the partners of the event Campus Poland of the Future - the project of Rafał Trzaskowski, Vice-President of the Civic Platform - there are foreign foundations: the Polish Foundation im. Robert Schuman, International Republican Institute and the German Konrad Adenauer Foundation. They are powerful foreign organizations directly linked to political parties. As you know, the Konrad Adenauer Foundation belongs to the German CDU party Angela Merkel, which had a decisive voice when the current President of PO Donald Tusk assumed the position of Head of the European Council in 2014. The media informed that two weeks before the opening of the Campus Poland of the Future, Rafał Trzaskowski met on-line with policies of the German Chadition, as well as representatives financed by the Berlin Adenauer Foundation and Junge Union representative, CDU/CSU youth, and German ambassador in Poland. Today, it can be seen with disgust that the political achievements of Campus Poland of the Future, behind which the money of the German foundations stands, proved to be an image disaster. The compromise was the project of Rafał Trzaskowski and included as the star of Donald Tusk. Here are some examples. Donald Tusk: In fact, I came here to take on this duty and this burden, because I have a deep conviction that I know how to chase all those who from Polish politics make such a hell for us unbearable. It's gonna take two, maybe three years, I'm pretty sure. I'm not here to take anyone's place, I'm here to get their seats released. In turn, a sympathizer of the Civic Platform, uncompromising privatizer of the Polish economy at the beginning of the transformation, Leszek Balcerowicz in his speech at Campus proposed young people to make a shortcut for journalists of the Polish Television: Do an online hungarian, so it is much easier - he encouraged. Calling to the public lynch the statement of the former Deputy Prime Minister Balcerowicz, Internet users commented: Campus of the Future was supposed to be, and there is a return to the Middle Ages. Similarly, Elżbieta Bieńkowska, former Deputy Prime Minister in the government of Donald Tusk, presented herself with a scandalous statement. During the debate - in the presence of activists of the Belarusian democratic opposition - politicians demanded punishment for Poland. The Union has no choice now. It has to, logically, either impose daily financial penalties or suspend funding. It's awful what I'm saying because I'm talking about my own country. But it can't be that we're actually telling everyone that we're a community of values, and something like this happens inside. He showed contempt for the majority of Poles of Catholics at Campus Poland by Mr Sławomir Nitras: they will become a real minority, will not be the majority and must learn to live with it. It is good that this should happen, honestly, not violently, rationally, not on a certain basis of revenge, but, on a principle, it is a fair punishment for what has happened, we must obsess you with certain privileges. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I can risk and propose that the effect of this initiative did not result in additional points of support for Rafał Trzaskowski, or the Civic Platform, and certainly Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-06-sejm-36-2.u93	The meeting shall be adjourned by 15 September 2021 at the latest. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 19 min 48]]
