ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u1	I open the 23rd Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Rafał Ambrozik, Senator Viktor Durlak, Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska and Senator Ryszard Świlski to be the secretary of the sitting. The list of speakers in the sitting room will be led by Senator Viktor Durlak, and in room 217 Senator Rafał Ambrozik. The senators are already in their seats. So let me inform you that, following the outbreak, after consulting the Senior Convention, I have decided to give this meeting a special formula. The meetings will be held at the same time in a traditional manner and using means of remote communication in a remote manner. The rules for the participation of senators in Senate meetings in a remote manner are laid down in Article. 67b Senate Rules of Procedure. Your senators meeting in the sitting room and in room 217, please sign up for questions and to speak in a discussion with the senators of the Secretaries. I would like to remind you that in the sitting room will be Senators Viktor Durlak and Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, and in room No 217, Senators Rafał Ambrozik and Ryszard Świlski. I would also ask the Senators to pass on legislative proposals, speeches in discussions and statements. I'm also asking you not to move between the salami. Both speaking and voting are possible from the places that you occupy. Please do not run applications in the iPad within the Senate building. I understand that all States in the sitting room and in room 217 have excluded applications for remote participation in the meeting. On the other hand, state senators taking part in the meeting in a remote way, please make sure that your iPads are connected to the power supply and the cameras are turned on. Please also ensure that the iPad position and camera lens are visible during the connection. You can subscribe to questions and speak in the discussion via chat in the application. Legislative requests, speeches and statements should be sent by e-mail to the address previously sent to you by the Senate Office. There is also a special telephone number at your disposal. Under this number you can consult the content of proposals of a legislative nature or the notification of technical problems. Please do not turn on the microphones yourself. It will be possible to speak only after it has been given by the Marshal in charge of the session and after the microphone has been launched by the informatics of the Senate Chancellery. I also inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If one of your senators fails to join the session before blocking the session in the application or if one of you loses the call, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the test vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. I remind the senators who use the remote voting application that they start voting, so-called. polling, Webex will cause a message to appear. To take part in the vote, click "OK." And I would like to remind you that you need to press 2 buttons after you cast your vote: in the voting window and in response to the confirmation question. Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted and so many are attending the sitting at the moment. [[Voting No 1]] High Senate, I inform you that on 29 January 2021 the President of the Council of Ministers gave the Senate a report on the implementation of the Law on Public Benefit and Volunteering for 2016 and 2017. It is contained in print No 319. The Senate Marshal addressed this report to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and to the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. I would like to inform you that the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions took note of this document on 7 April, and the Committee on Local Government and State Administration on 13 April. I would also like to inform you that the Sejm, at its 27th meeting on 30 March 2021, adopted all the amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Law on Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing and some other laws; to the Act amending the Law on Customs and some other laws; to the Act amending the Law on Rail Transport; and to the Act amending the Act on the National Census of Population and Housing in 2021. In addition, the Sejm adopted part of the Senate's amendments to the Act amending the Law on the Supreme Court; to the Act amending the Law on excise duty and certain other laws; to the Act amending the Law on Road Traffic Law and certain other laws; to the Act amending the Act on the making available of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments and certain other laws; and to the Act amending the Act on Anti-Communist Opposition Act and persons repressed for political reasons and certain other laws. The Sejm rejected all the amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of Infections and Diseases in People. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the 21st meeting, I declare that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that items 3rd, 4th and 7th agenda be considered, even though the committee's reports on these matters have been submitted at a later date than set out in the Rule. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I propose supplementing the agenda with a point: second reading of the draft resolution on support and equal opportunities for people in the spectrum of autism and consider it as item one of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I would also like to inform you that the vote on this item will take place as soon as it is completed. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? Mr. Senator Bosacki and Mr. Senator Swed. First of all, Senator Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to request that the agenda be supplemented by a point: a second reading of the draft resolution expressing appreciation for the Ombudsman Adam Bodnar and consider it as item 9 of the agenda, immediately after considering the Ombudsman's activities and the state of compliance with human rights and human rights in 2020. In a resolution which, following the amendments of the Legislative Commission, is in print No 364 S, we would like to express our highest respect and thank Mr Bodnar for his duties, and I would also like to stress that opposition to his attempts to remove him from his duties before his successor is elected. I would very much ask the senators in the other part of the room to support this proposal, because the current attempts to remove Mr Bodnar from his duties are clearly not only depriving citizens of protection by the constitutional office and the elected ombudsman of civil rights, but also reducing Parliament's prerogatives, including the Senate. Let me remind you, Art. The Ombudsman's Law clearly states that the Senate must adopt a resolution on consent to the appointment of the Ombudsman. I would remind you that for the last six months, the Sejm and I have received a resolution on the appointment of a new spokesperson after the formal term of office of Mr. Adam Bodnar. I also remind you that the same article. 3 of the Ombudsman Act says that if the Senate refuses The Sejm refers another person to the Ombudsman's position only once. The provisions of this law apply accordingly, i.e. it must go through the whole procedure. I'm reminding you, too. And I ask you to take this into account. The Ombudsman's Act clearly states in Article. 3 that the Ombudsman is in charge until the new Ombudsman takes office. Any attempt to appoint another person for this position, even as a performer, and to shorten the time for the Ombudsman's duties, as I stress, is the limitation of citizens' rights to represent them by the Ombudsman and the attempt to limit the powers of the Sejm and the Senate to appoint and appoint, to elect an ombudsman. I would ask the entire High House to support the inclusion of this item on the agenda of this Senate meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u3	Thank you very much. Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u4	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I move that the point be deleted: the President of the Council of Ministers is informed of the state of preparation for the mobilisation of funds from the European Union Reconstruction Fund, as I did at the previous meeting. In my opinion, the Senate has no prerogative to interrogate individual ministers. I am intrigued by the fact that on the one hand you are concerned about the European Union's Reconstruction Fund, and on the other hand you are proposing, among others. Laws such as the Law on the Cohesion and Development Agency, which we examined at the previous Senate meeting, and which so de facto has already started a new financial perspective I move that this point be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u5	Thank you very much, senator. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have been informed that Minister Buda will honor us with his presence in the Senate during the debate on this point, so I do not know. , whether it's agreed. Mr. Marshal Crack. Then you're Marshal Borusewicz and you're Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'm filing a motion against Senator Bosacki's motion. First of all, because I think I'm gonna be the Senator of Law and Justice here. We fundamentally disagree with such a laurel and such an assessment of the Ombudsman's activities. We have, I would say, the opposite opinion about his role, his objectivity, his concern for human rights and the citizen. His political commitment, repeatedly shown in the Senate, the repeated exceedance of constitutional competence, the imputation of constitutional powers, which you do not have... But I am also against this because this resolution is, as it were, a political provocation, a political declaration which should not come out of the Senate in relation to the Ombudsman who is still in office. Not much, I think it's also an attempt to put pressure on the independent Constitutional Tribunal... [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] ...who's on this case... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] ...which is currently dealing with this matter, we expect a ruling from the Constitutional Court in this case. The state, as a majority of the Senate, once again assigns itself powers that the Senate does not have. In conclusion, I am opposed to introducing a resolution on the Ombudsman on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u7	We have a motion for and a counterclaim. This will be voted on. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u8	As Senator Szwed once again requests the deletion of the government's information for the Senate, and such conclusions, thus justified, have also been repeatedly submitted by Marshal Karczewski, I would like to object to this request, disagree with it. I would like to say that during the seventh term of office, PiS submitted 13 requests for government information, in the next eighth term, PiS submitted a total of 19 requests for government information on specific issues. These conclusions were signed individually by Senator Karczewski and signed by a group of senators, all of whom were Senators of the PiS, including, I believe, Senator Swed. I am talking about this as a reminder, and I believe that such speeches concerning government information, which we have the right to address as Senate, such arguments against such requests will no longer be heard from the PiS. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u9	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u10	Thank you very much. We need to extend this opposition to Marshal Borusewicz and say with an open text: we are not here to take money, we are here to represent citizens of the Republic of Poland, regardless of which group who belongs. Citizens are expecting information about this Marshall plan, from which the funds are to be distributed between 2021 and 2026. This is the biggest money for Poland in recent years. Citizens have a right to know, and we have a duty to invite those who have made this plan here. And that is the first reason why information should be presented. [[Talking in the O.R.]] The second point, although I wouldn't have to say it, is that the motion for this information to be taken off the agenda is that Senator Swed wants to lay a foot on his own government. Because the government embarrassed itself two weeks ago, avoiding the debate on this subject. We managed, we held a conference with several thousand listeners who were informed about what was in the National Plan for Reconstruction, but the government had no way of addressing it. Give the government a chance... [[Voice from the room: But this is not a formal conclusion.]] ...to refer to the comments we have on the National Reconstruction Plan. [[The voice from the room: It's such a general concern...]] [[Voice from the room: What is it about?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u11	We have, ladies and gentlemen, two cases... [[Senator Swede wants more...]] We're not going to open up, Senator, the discussion. There was a motion to introduce a point, there was an objection. This is not the time for a senate discussion. The conclusions were clear, clear and understandable to the speaker. First vote. We proceed to the vote on Senator Bosacki's request to supplement the agenda item with a motion for a resolution expressing appreciation to the Ombudsman and to thank him for his term of office, his last term of office, that he so calls it. Who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 50 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 2]] The point will be introduced. The vote on this item will take place as soon as the item has been translated. We proceed to the vote on the second motion, tabled by Senator Swede, for a photo taken from the agenda of the planned item: information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the state of preparation for the mobilisation of funds from the European Union Reconstruction Fund (Next Generation EU). Who's in favour of taking this item off the agenda? Please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 46 for, 50 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 3]] The item will remain on the agenda of the Senate. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the twenty-third Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term. I would like to inform you that, in the absence of legislative proposals to point one, the vote on this issue will be held immediately after consideration of this point. We will proceed to the review of the Law on the amendment of the Law on Social Assistance today. The vote on this issue will be taken after consideration of this point. The vote on a resolution of appreciation for the Ombudsman will also be held today, after consideration of this point and possible committee meetings. The remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. In addition, I would like to inform you that we will join us today around 14 a.m. to consider the item on information on the activities of the RPO for 2020 and on compliance with human rights and freedoms. In addition, in late afternoon hours the Senate will proceed with the examination of the point: information for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period of July December 2020 (German Presidency of the Council of the European Union). I would like to inform you that if the relevant draft resolution is tabled, the agenda will include a second reading of the draft resolution on the celebration of the two hundredth anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution on 3 May. To clarify, this is in the context of the solemn assembly of Members and Senators of the Republic of Poland on 3 May with the participation of Parliamentaries of the Lithuanian Sejm. The point is that the Sejm is not yet ready for the final draft resolution, and we want them to be one-sounding in the mouth of the Sejm and the Senate. So that this will be considered at the end of the meeting. In addition, I inform the senators that today at 12.00 in the lobby on the ground floor there will be the opening of the exhibition "Comedy Chairs." A half-hour break will therefore be announced. In addition, I recommend your attention in the lobby on the first floor of the exhibition of the fight of Polish doctors against the pandemic of Coronavirus. Dear Senators, April 19th is the eighth anniversary of the uprising in the Warsaw ghetto. The symbol of the memory of the heroes of those events was the yellow daffodils, referring to the flowers placed by Mark Edelman under the statue of the heroes of the ghetto. Paper daffodils have been placed on your desktops. I warmly encourage you to join the action commemorating the insurgents and the uprising. We proceed with the examination of the item on the first agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on support and equal opportunities for people in the spectrum of autism. I would like to remind you that this project has been introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 358 and the report "Print No 358 S." Welcome to the meeting of representatives of the JiM Foundation, supporting a person with autism. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Jan Filip Libicki, to present a joint report of the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Let me get this straight. On April 2, we celebrate the World Autism Awareness Day every year, and April as a whole is the time when people in the spectrum of autism are particularly taught. Therefore, as a group of senators, which I allow myself to be a representative, we decided, in parallel with the Sejm resolution, to adopt an appropriate senate resolution on this matter. I am very pleased that with the creation of this resolution we could benefit from the knowledge and competence of representatives of the JiM Foundation from Łódź, who today, as Mr Marshal said, are present in the Chamber, because probably without this substantive help this resolution would not have the shape it has at the moment. Thank you so much for that. Let me now move on to the report of the Joint Committees. The Legislative Committee and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy discussed this draft yesterday, and the outcome of this discussion is this form of the resolution. Allow me to read this resolution. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of... on the support and equalization of the opportunities of people in the spectrum of autism. The Senate of the Republic of Poland, bearing in mind the concerns about the needs of people in the spectrum of autism, their families and carers, i.e. over a million citizens, recognizes that the state should create them decent living and working conditions. In order to make this possible, there must be systemic solutions to support the creation of a comprehensive policy aimed at all these people. Taking into account the obligations arising from the resolutions: the Charter of Autism Rights and the Charter of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the Senate of the Republic of Poland states that a strategy is needed in particular to develop and implement the current system of care and support for people in the spectrum of autism, in order to enable them to function as worthy and as independent as possible in adulthood, with particular regard to the need to provide inclusive education, equal opportunities in the labour market and a modern system of care and support. The Senate of the Republic of Poland, stating that the above obligation arises from the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and acts of international law concerning persons with disabilities, calls on the Government of the Republic of Poland to take action to create this strategy. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. A few words on the course of the discussion at the meeting of the two Senate committees. Four senators took part in the discussion. Senator Gogacz proposed some editorial amendments which prevented certain repetitions in the original text. Senator Czerwiński called for the definition of the autism spectrum, but after the discussion we left this term, because it is a term, I would name it, specialized and it is used by the community of people dealing with autism. Senator Czerwiński also raised the question... I think she's included in the draft resolution. While we can say that after many years we have been able to build an increasingly functioning support system for children and young people in the spectrum of autism... This resolution tries to describe a problem that we face, namely that when these children and young people become adults, this support system is no longer what it was when they were children or young people. In this resolution, we want to pay particular attention to this stage, the stage of adulthood. There was also a remark from Senator Jackowski, who called for the word "apel" to be translated into a more firm word, but it seems that if we wanted to adopt this text in the greatest possible consensus, and this is our intention, it would be more appropriate, so to speak, to use more delicate words, so to put it. The fourth person who spoke was Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, who supported us as creators and initiators of this resolution. So much for the discussion at the joint committee meeting. I ask the High House to adopt this draft resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u13	Thank you very much, senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. Those 2 roles are the same person. Senator Jan Filip Libicki. Mr. Senator Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I would ask that the senator bring this moment of discussion closer to what was said about the current level of care or support from the state for people with disabilities in the spectrum of autism, because it was quite an interesting exchange of views. If the senator would briefly like to present to the High House the arguments that have been put forward... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u15	I can say yes. In this section of the discussion that you are talking about, Senator, there have been three speeches. Senator Czerwiński talked about the fact that such a resolution should not have a shape that would suggest that people from the spectrum of autism and the whole environment remain as if without support at all and that we need to build something again. You pointed out to Senator Czerwiński, as I said, by presenting my report, that this system of support for children and young people after years of starting, so to speak, is starting to function better and better. Senator Tyszkiewicz's statement, indicating the specific statements of environmental representatives, quoted them from various online materials available to him. That wouldn't indicate it. And the third voice was my voice as the initiator of this resolution. I shared my experience, quite close to Senator Czerwinski's statements. This means that as long as the environment believes that after years this system of support for children and young people begins to function properly, we have a problem when these young people come out of their childhood and youth. And that is one of the reasons why we proposed this resolution. This was the case, of course, in a telegraphic summary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u16	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u17	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! Mr. Senator Representative of the Applicants, don't you think that the text of this resolution is partly of a nature, I would call it confrontational? It is precisely because the thoughts that you have just said and which have appeared in the discussion, namely the fact that the care of children and young people in the spectrum of autism during their schooling is getting better, there is no talking here. So there's kind of a suggestion that we need to reorganize a strategy. That's the first line. You can of course improve processes, you can improve the state of care itself, you can allocate more resources It's clear. However, this system care of a child with autism, from the spectrum of autism in our Polish school is, I believe, at a high level, really high level. And that's one question. This aspect is not here. And there's a second, much more basic, question. Well, why should you take care of a child, would I call it general, autistic? It should provide opportunities to socialize this child, because this socialized child often has been made, so to speak, far-reaching various skills, various qualities that make him superior to the average student... [[Mr. Senator, you've been asking for two minutes.]] I'll conclude, Mr. Marshal. Whether such a text calling, I would call it, to continue this care in the adult sphere, but distinguished, will not result in the fact that children themselves, but also parents and teachers who worked for the autistic child, leaving school, can participate in normal social life, e.g. through integration classes That's why you do it. Will it simply be stigmatized in the future? The question is this: would this way, I would call it, pointing out the problem will not lead us to stigmatize autistic children even if they do not need help? E.g. in high school, because in primary school they were properly run, properly socialized. And the point is, aren't we throwing a baby in here with a bath? Figuratively.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u18	I'm asking you to give me a short answer from the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u19	Thank you very much. Senator, in answer to the first question, whether this resolution is a confrontational one, I will repeat something I have already said: it is your clubmate, Senator Jackowski, who suggested that the word be changed to a word with a much stronger sound. I allowed myself to advise Senator Jackowski on this wording, because I just wanted to avoid such a confrontational tone of the resolution as much as possible. Besides, I'm going to point out one more thing. About 10.00 p.m., a similar resolution was adopted unanimously by the Sejm, that is, by the chamber in which the majority has this group, which remains in opposition in the Senate. Perhaps the adoption of this resolution in the Sejm preceded some amendments. But I haven't heard of any amendments being made in the Sejm. As far as I know, the resolution was adopted in about the same form as the project that we are working on today. So in the Sejm, the majority of Members of Law and Justice did not consider the tone of this resolution to be confrontational to themselves. That's the answer to question one. The answer to the second question is as follows. Well, the draft resolution has, so to speak, an intentional character, it points to a problem. I agree with the senator because we are calling for a strategy here. If such a strategy arises, it will be debated in Parliament and we will discuss it in the Senate. It seems to me that this will be the time to point out such legitimate comments of a specific nature. As for the resolution, which is general in nature, which only points to a certain problem, it seems to me that it would not be appropriate if we were to clarify the provisions of that resolution in such a way. So much for this.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u20	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Kwiatkowski. Let me just remind you that a half-hour break will be announced at 12:00. Mr. Senator Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u21	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The question, of course, is to the rapporteur's senator. Would you agree that the draft resolution is factual and not confrontational? I take this into account that the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber announced in June 2020 and I will quote two sentences from the summary of this report, and assessed the situation in Poland as follows: "The care of people with autism or Asperger's syndrome during the education period was correct. Most pupils have been created the conditions for education and vocational training, taking into account the specifics of their disability. However, at the end of their education, adults no longer have a guaranteed continuation of support and full access to effective rehabilitation, enabling them to prepare for work and self-living. This may mean a regression and a loss of skills that people with autism or Asperger's syndrome have acquired for many years of education and consequently lead to social exclusion. Isn't it that the draft resolution points to a real problem that arises after a period of education? Is it not also a way of thanking those who need to be thanked, especially parents of children with Asperger's syndrome and numerous organizations and associations that support the efforts of these parents? I'm also saying this as the father of a child with Asperger's syndrome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u22	Thank you very much, senator. Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u23	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't have any questions. I would just like to thank Senator Libicki and all the colleagues who worked on this draft resolution. Of course, I have no objection to him. It's a good thing we're paying attention to this problem. I have my experience here because there are autistic parents among my friends. Mr. Senator Czerwiński, please bear in mind that the draft resolution does not mention any negligence from the past. She just reminds me that you should do more for these people, because the problems of these children and the dramas of their parents that are related to... well, that's what you have to pay attention to. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u24	Thank you very much. I understand they were rather brief comments. Let me remind you, we're in the middle of a questioning session. Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u25	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, of course we're all in favour of supporting these people to even the odds of people out of the spectrum of autism, of course. I'd like to ask if before you initiated this resolution... Because you're a member of the Senate Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. Were there any legislative changes proposed at the committee meeting that would support people with autism? Did you also take note of the government's position on this strategy, on the changes that would support people with autism? Were there any changes in this regard proposed by the committee or by you directly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u26	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u27	Good. So I'm not gonna tell Senator Fedorovich's statements. I'm just gonna thank Senator Fedorovich. As far as Senator Kwiatkowski is concerned, I can only say this: yes, at the source of our intention to submit this resolution was exactly what Senator Kwiatkowski read, which is part of the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber. By our resolution, we wanted to point out precisely the situation which was described in this report. As for the answer to Senator Swede's question, I can say yes. The environment calls for us to hold an appropriate thematic meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and, of course, such a committee meeting on the subject also with representatives of the government who will be able to comment at the committee meeting... we will hold such a committee meeting. So far, this committee meeting has not been held. That's all there is to it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u28	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the list of questions. I'm opening a discussion. Senators Wadim Tyszkiewicz, Jan Maria Jackowski and Władysław Komarnicki joined the discussion. Please, Senator Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u29	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The environmental support system in the spectrum of autism is getting better and better, which is undoubtedly based on my experience, which I will refer to, even though the opposition in the Senate sometimes mocks the use of the experience gained in local government. This experience shows me that it is really getting better and the system is getting better, but most of all thanks to actually local governments, because the involvement of local governments and social organizations... In my town, it's like this. workshops of occupational therapy, which together with the local government are creating more and better conditions. It works and works better. But, of course, there's still a lot to do. The environment of those affected by autism, those who help them, and who deal with this problem, welcomes the fact that they are interested in the problem of patients, children and their families. It's a good thing those environments were finally noticed. On a daily basis, people with the spectrum of autism face a lot of problems that require urgent solutions, including systemic ones. The problems really start at the stage when parents notice abnormalities in the behaviour and development of the child and begin searching for the possibility of obtaining a diagnosis. Very often this diagnosis is made by far too late or mistakenly. Public advice is overloaded, which makes the deadline for consultation or research very distant. It happens that three-year-olds who are not speaking expect a few years in line for speech therapy. Often the clinics do not have staff with adequate preparation for work and diagnosis of children with specific developmental disorders. In turn private individuals of this type of diagnosis and judgment cannot issue. A big problem, especially in small individuals, is access to specialist doctors who support diagnosis and therapy. Neurologist, psychiatrist, audiologist, genetic research. Sometimes in order to obtain a set of required documents, parents wait many months to visit these specialists, and a child requiring urgent therapy, which is of great importance especially in early childhood, is left to himself. The problem is also low awareness among medical staff, pediatricians, environmental nurses, daycare workers who could direct their parents to the path of therapy. Unfortunately, due to the lack of appropriate training for the employees of the said units, for example, it is still possible to meet them. pediatricians who suggest parents to tell their children about disorders, speech counselors who claim that there will still be time for speech, and many other non-scientific advice. The amount of aid received is also too small. This applies, for example, to the hourly work of the WWR. There are no therapeutic centres, as well as support for parents, psychological and methodological support, without which they will not learn how to understand their child. There are also unequal opportunities for access to therapy. Unfortunately, very often access to specialist, modern therapy and specialists who provide continuity and complexity is only possible in private facilities and offices. Many parents cannot afford this for financial reasons. Education and inclusion in the peer group is another problem. Not every facility guarantees a supporting teacher. Schools explain the lack of resources. It also happens that people who are not prepared to work with a child with specific needs are employed for this job. In society there is still too little awareness of autism, which causes these children to be often unwanted and misunderstood in public schools. There's a lack of parental care. It should be remembered that autistics often require care 24 hours a day. Often, there is no one in the immediate surroundings who can help their parents. Another aspect is emancipation. Therapy from an early age and system support should give parents and children a sense of security, a sense that the child will not remain unattended and will be able to function as far as possible in society. A very important aspect from the point of view of the environment of people from the spectrum of autism is the regulation of the path of receiving a therapist's powers of autism. Recently more and more pseudotherapists appear after online courses, without thorough knowledge and skills. These people deceive their parents, promising incredible results, and the only effect is that the child is standing or retreating. Parents lose money and hope for successful therapy. In our view, this path should be clearly defined, the requirements for such a therapist should be clarified so that therapy is appropriate and beneficial for children and parents. Another problem concerns PFRON support, which actually does not include children in the spectrum of autism, although they are very often included in a group of people with disabilities and requiring special equipment, special home equipment, etc. This assistance mainly includes the purchase of equipment for persons with movement, vision or hearing impairment. Finally, I would like to say that in full support of the draft resolution, while calling for the current support system to be adapted to the real needs of people from the spectrum of autism and to include in building this system people who have the most recent and closest knowledge in this area, i.e. Teachers, therapists and parents. And this is the essence of my speech, which I am directing to Senator Czerwinski. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u30	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski will speak. Your speech will be followed by a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u31	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I join these appeals and thanks which have been submitted to the hands of Senator Libicki. Thank you for this initiative. I signed off on it, too. I supported the project. Nevertheless, I would like to draw attention to two issues relating to this project. First of all, the draft resolution does not apply only to those in the spectrum of autism who are not 18 years old. Well, basically, there was a discussion at the committee meeting about it. The problem is deeper and wider, the problem is very serious. It applies not only to people from the spectrum of autism who are incapable of living on their own. And these people are, unfortunately, But also other disabled people unable to live on their own. I believe that the Polish State has a huge role to play in this regard. Because the welfare home system looks like it, a lot of parents who have kids like that. We are aware of how dramatic the life situation of these children can be after their parents or legal guardians have left, that they set up different foundations, that they create different kinds of initiatives, including integration ones. These are places where these people can live together and spend time together, where they have adequate professional care. And this is an area that, in my opinion, requires special support from the state, because there is a certain spectrum of people with disabilities hanging over their parents who are unable to live on their own. I stress, there is a powerful dilemma in life, moral, these are very difficult issues in life. And that's why this support from the state... I do not want to enter into a discussion as to whether it is appropriate or inappropriate and what this situation looks like. Various opinions were presented here. I agree with the opinion that the situation with regard to the school system is improving, etc., was also quoted during the committee's meeting of opinions from the autism spectrum parents' environment, that in terms of this level or issues at this stage of life, support is getting better, but the second issue that I have just mentioned requires a systemic solution. And finally, the question of the discussion about... I was just... I am talking here about the last verse of the penultimate paragraph of the draft resolution: the Senate calls on the government to take action to create this strategy. You were right about Senator Czerwiński during the discussion that the strategy itself will not solve the problem yet, she could be a tool to achieve good or very good This is depending on what the programme is going to be like. is this strategy "Activities for people with disabilities." That is why it seemed to me that it would be worth strengthening this issue in the draft resolution, introducing a more mandatory form here, because the appeal itself... Well, we can appeal, but there may not be an ad hoc appeal. I hope it doesn't, but here I'm blowing for good. And that's why I offered to change here. But since Senator Libicki, who was the representative of the applicants, considered that such a formula was sufficient, I did not make any amendments in this regard and I do not intend to make them absolutely. I hope that this resolution will be adopted and I hope that it will make a significant contribution to the measures which, in my opinion, are necessary by the Polish State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u32	Thank you very much, Senator. In accordance with the proposals presented, I invite pleno titulo of the senators to open a modest exhibition dedicated to the outstanding jazz artist, Dr. Krzysztof Komeda Trzciński. I therefore declare a half-hour break by 12:30. [[Adjournment in the sitting from 11 minutes 58 to 12 minutes 32]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u33	I'm reopening the session. We are returning to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on support and equal opportunities for people in the spectrum of autism. I would like to remind you that before the session was interrupted, the rapporteur presented the committee's report and answered the senators' questions. We've also started a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I did not intend to speak today because I thought that matters concerning autism were so important that only unanimously, unanimously, without any questions, we could adopt a resolution proposal. First of all, I would like to thank Senator Libicki warmly and warmly. Why are you so much Senator Libicki... Because the resolution is an appeal, it's a request, and I want to share with you not what my previous speakers said... You spoke perfectly, Senator Libicki. He's read the protocol I'm signing, Senator Kwiatkowski. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz spoke very carefully. But I would like to share with you, with the senators what is the essence of things today. I am Senator of District 21, from Gorzów Wielkopolski. Six years ago, my parents came to me with tears in their eyes, saying that there were no autistic children's parties for kindergarten or school. God protected me, it didn't touch my family. I have to tell you, this is a very difficult thing for families, these parents are having a terrible time. Ladies and gentlemen, without State aid, they are in a hopeless situation. I've been involved in these six years... I have to tell you. I wasn't gonna speak, but I have to talk about it because there's an anesthetic... I don't know if it's because those who aren't affected by this terrible disease are pretending that this problem isn't in our country. What's the problem? Six years ago, the association invited me to a place where there was a pseudo-preschool and a pseudo-school... It was in a mental hospital. The roof leaked, molded carpet and those helpless teachers and the management of this association. The only reason I got there was because I wanted to help. I didn't want to believe that you could not take a child to kindergarten or school. And that's my way in there... I stayed with these kids, these parents and the association for six years. For six years, I've been running around a lot of companies, getting a lot of people to help. They should have been moved to help because it took PLN 2.5 million. There was no help out of nowhere, and I wrote everywhere. To move my conscience, I told everyone a story that I had personally lived. If you would like to know how it was and how difficult it is for those who are the heads of such associations who are educators, I invite you to go to Gorzów Wielkopolski for a meeting with this association. The Polish state, as it is written in the draft of this resolution, must know that there are more and more children, as scientists say. There is no downward trend here, there is an upward trend. This problem, as I read in this resolution proposal, concerns about 1 million people. And how tragic the situation is at home... I was invited to a few. One of the parents, even when it's poor at home, can't work because this child needs care 24 hours a day. And it must be known to all who decide anything about such associations. And a word at the end. When a child turns school, a serious problem arises. The problem is very serious and I am very pleased that it has been raised today. We, Senator Libicki, must return regularly. We can't just leave them with a resolution, so it doesn't come out of it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u35	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u36	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! We generally make occasional resolutions without discussion, but maybe it is that Providence has been watching and discussing the draft of this resolution, because it allows us to learn a little bit about the facts and not believe in propaganda or illegal thesis as to how effectively the problem of children in the widely understood spectrum of autism and parents of these people is solved. 'Cause you could say And that's what we've been talking about, and that's what happened at the committee meeting. It is true that, at the time when these children benefit from education, this problem is effectively resolved. But, ladies and gentlemen, the Polish state has wider responsibilities This is the result of the rules. It is not only an obligation to provide education for these children at all levels of education, but, in accordance with the laws governing them, it is also an obligation to provide them, as adults, with assistance in obtaining and maintaining employment. What does it look like in practice in Poland? In practice, people with autism and Asperger's syndrome were, of course, given the possibility of vocational training, preparation for work after the end of education. Let me tell you how this preparation translates into real employment for these people. We're talking about a problem that's not trivial. We're talking here, it was in the resolution. That if we look at the whole spectrum of autism... After all, we are also talking about families, because they must be involved in supporting their own children, who are faced with these problems. In the school year 2018/2019 alone, more than 50,000 children with disabilities received special education in schools and kindergartens. These statistics grow from year to year. And what happens after education with autistics, people with Asperger's syndrome? They can take up employment on the so-called. an open labour market. I stress that they can, because the employment rate of people with these disorders is in Poland, Ladies and gentlemen, lower than 1%, while in Western European countries it is even a dozen percent. I repeat: the employment rate of people in this group is below 1% in Poland. It is worth remembering this number by all those who speak on this issue, especially if they say that in Poland we have an excellent system of support for these people, also professional ones. He's so perfect, he uses less than 1% of it. Most people with autism or Asperger's syndrome require help in preparing for work and living on their own when they have finished their education. The fact that they have completed their studies does not make them rid themselves of problems related to their illness. There's no magic wand that's causing this kid to drop out of education, and suddenly his disorder disappears. It's worth remembering. They can, of course, operate in the labour market. That's what occupational therapy workshops are for, that's what protected workplaces are for, that's what professional activity establishments are for, but unfortunately, it turns out that all these tools are far from sufficient to meet needs. Ladies and gentlemen, these children can participate in occupational therapy workshops offering social rehabilitation or, as I said, start working on an open or protected labour market in a sheltered workplace or in a professional activity establishment. I'm sorry. And here I recommend reading the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber This has often been the case for these people. It's just formal. This is demonstrated by the fact that only around 19% professional activity establishments and 22% of occupational therapy workshops in voivodships, where the Supreme Audit Chamber carried out control activities, supported people with autism or Asperger syndrome. And there are great examples of working with children. I'm glad the JiM Foundation is here with us. Dozens of times I had the opportunity to be at your headquarters in Łódź on Tatrzańska Street and I know what wonderful work you are doing. I'd really like to thank you for that. I hope that today's discussion will result in this Because we were just talking, and you showed us how much good you can do for your environment, for your children, for your parents. In a moment, the Senate Legislative Commission will come up with a proposal for legislative changes so that these shameful statistics change so that this state aid is not only declaratory but actual. I hope that we will be able to adopt draft laws that are not verbally, and will really help people from the spectrum of autism and their parents. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u37	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Alexander Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u38	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! As I have already stressed in the question asked, of course we are all in favour of supporting and equalizing opportunities for people with autism. There is also the government of Law and Justice, which, in my opinion, has done a lot for people with autism as well as people with other disabilities since 2015. It is worth mentioning here as an example, alongside many programmes to support people with disabilities and to amend many laws, recently adopted by the Council of Ministers, the first Polish strategy for people with disabilities for the period 2021 to 2030, which in my opinion is an important step towards improving the situation and quality of life of people with disabilities in Poland. This is the first such comprehensive and long-term document. The Disability Strategy is a strategic document that will be a road map for national policies for people with disabilities. The strategy was launched at the end of 2016. In 2020 it was significantly extended and concretely defined. More than 1 000 600 pages of comments have been examined in the context of the public consultation and the working version of the strategy has been pre-accepted by the European Commission. The work on the proposal for concrete actions was preceded by a diagnosis of the facts, which was based on both publicly available statistics on the situation of people with disabilities in Poland, as well as on various reports and studies on this subject. The main objective of the strategy is to involve people with disabilities in social life and, if possible, also in professional life. The employment rate of people with disabilities of working age is 28.3% in 2018, planned to reach an intermediate value of 35% in 2025 and a target of 45% in 2030 The document consists of a number of strategic actions that have been grouped and divided into priority areas of the strategy. As part of the priority axis one, we have areas such as the introduction of a system-based personal assistance service and rest-care, the unification and systemic development of assisted housing, the implementation of support circles, the start of the deinstitutionalisation process, the gradual transition from institutional care to support the local community of the person, the replacement of institutions with a self-indebted decision-making model. As part of the priority axis two, we have the availability of areas such as the implementation of universal design of uniform standards for accessibility of public spaces, increased accessibility of public transport, including shortening the minimum time for notification of the need for assistance in rail transport, the development of door-to-door transport, the introduction of alternative and supportive means of communication, and the increased availability of audiovisual media services for people with disabilities. As part of other priority axes such as education, work, living conditions and social protection, health, awareness building or coordination, we have many areas of support and support for people with autism. So that many of these actions in the strategy need to be really positive. Nevertheless, I believe that the resolution we are proceeding with, the resolution on support and equal opportunities for people in the spectrum of autism, is of the utmost value. And thanking the initiator, Senator Libicki, I express my full support for her. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u39	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogusława Orzechowska remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! I hope I'm audible. Yes? I would like to thank Senator Jan Filip Libicki warmly for his resolution on support and equal opportunities for people with autism. This is of course a resolution worthy of our attention and worthy of our support. It was with great regret that I accepted Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz's statement that pediatricians and teachers are ignorant and lazy, that they are ignorant, who are not able to recognize well. Maybe it used to be, but right now, Yeah, I think so. There's a lot going on, a lot of things have changed. Doctors and teachers, and any other person who takes care of people with autism, are still subject to education, are constantly learning, gaining knowledge and learning skills to recognise these diseases. Senator, first get to know the reality and then accuse those who work with these children, young people or adults. I've been working with people with autism for many years. They need special care, first parents, but also... I'm talking about raising, teaching, and healing. These are people who require an incredible amount of work, patience, determination, but this job really pays off. We can see that there are real pearls among these people. Many of these people have amazing mathematical abilities or ability to learn languages. I know a lot of people who really have a huge future ahead of them. Indeed, at the moment, we should act in such a way that what these people have gained in the course of teaching, during their stay in a preschool or other group, in vocational schools... so that they can continue to develop so that they can continue to become students and even academic teachers, because there is no doubt that the special skills of some of these people may be a preference for such activities. Thank you again for this initiative and I declare that I will vote in favour as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u41	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Mr. Mark Plura. It's remote.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u42	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! The resolution we are discussing is clear and unambiguously serving an objective that is clear from it, which is calling on the government to take action to create a strategy for people with autism. This resolution contains neither praise nor reprimand, nor does it apply, nor should it refer to what is good and done, nor to what has not yet been done. Above all, we need a strategy, we need an action plan that combines what is well done with what is still a task. Perhaps it will be the beginning of the creation of such a road map. The objective is already set out, for example, in the Charter People's rights with Autism, which I had the honour of working on as a Member of the Sejm together with the chairman of the parliamentary team on people with autism, sleep. Mr Arkadiusz Rybicki. Many records of this card, important for life and independence, as well as the dignity of the people concerned, are still awaiting its implementation. I am very pleased that we have the Strategy for Persons with Disabilities adopted by the government and already accepted in Parliament, but it is a very general document, although very important, and the need for such an addition, which I hope will be the strategy for people with autism, people with the spectrum of autism. That is why I, too, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group on People with disabilities, as his chairman, I thank all the initiators of this resolution, in particular President Jan Filip Libicki. I think that I absolutely do not need to encourage the ladies and gentlemen of the senators to vote in favour of this project, because the discussion, too, which we are discussing right now, shows that we all have not only a lot of empathy and understanding, but also real knowledge, and if we are watching disputes in this discussion, I am very pleased that they are really relevant, and I would also like to thank you warmly for that too.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u43	Thank you, Senator. I'd like the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! As with any text that comes out of this House, the basic criterion should simply be the criterion of truth. This discussion, which took place here, in particular the first vote in this discussion, unfortunately did not meet this criterion. Well, it's not like in schools, which, for example. they run integration teams, teach, raise, conduct re-education classes in kindergartens Because these are the 3 main methods of action. . persons, as it has been said, uneducated, after courses. It's just insulting those teachers who, professionally trained, after college, take care of children who have greater needs. Greater needs That's all. I would like to apologize for this voice, but first of all to thank these teachers, these teachers, these psychologists, those doctors who take care of children from the spectrum of autism, and especially to thank the parents of these children, because it is the parents who bear a double burden, not only with education and education. But above all, daily, let's say, therapy. Without the cooperation of parents with the school, no results can be obtained. And what should these effects be? Two different groups... Well, above all, autism or general autism, the spectrum of autism cannot be cured, you can only socialize children, well, mostly children, because they are the most vulnerable to influence. But these children, socialized, who can and can do after school in a group, in the surrounding environment, are mostly more gifted in some field than the average student. They can do better on, I'd call it, open market, but they just need to be socialized. And that's what school is for, and first, kindergarten, the sooner it starts, the better... If a kindergarten, and then a primary school, now extended by 2 years, will be able to socialize such a child, then the effect really is enjoyed not only by parents but also by educators, teachers. They see how this child changes, how he can make contact with his peers, participate in the group, and then achieve very good results, e.g. in competitions or Olympics concerned. That's what we should be aiming for, that should be the first goal. After all, parents do not want these children to be excluded from their adult lives. They want them to participate in society, to remain on their own, if that is possible of course, I am talking about lighter cases. We must not stigmatize these children, they must not enter into adult life with a sign, with the stigma that they will be disabled to the end. No. They're just a little bit different emotionally, but not from the point of view of intellectual development, that's what needs to be said. This resolution, unfortunately, doesn't tell everything, and since it doesn't tell everything, it's partly lying to reality. I'll bring up the last two paragraphs, most importantly. They're decisive. What are we talking about? We call on the government to take action to create this strategy. What strategy? A strategy aimed at developing the current system of care and support for people in the spectrum of autism in order to enable them to function as dignified and as independent as possible in adulthood, with particular regard to the need to ensure inclusive education. Well, that's how schools work, and certainly basically, they include these kids in society whenever they can. This happens, for example. in integration units. This is the best method. There are three or five children in the ward, there is cooperation, there is co-existence in the sense that there are interpersonal contacts with children, and there is a well-managed person who is well-educated. There are revalidation classes, psychologist care, educator, sometimes speech counselors. That's just the way it is. Of course, situations may not be so pathological as they may not be exemplary. Then we should demand that the government be as small as possible. Perhaps we should increase the number of controls. But it is certainly not the norm of what was presented here, trying to convince us that children in the spectrum of autism are run by uneducated people. I'm protesting this because it's insulting those people who work very hard. Again I say: not only education, not only upbringing, but also therapy, rehabilitation classes. Of course, there are problems when it comes to, for example. It's about a child psychiatrist. But these problems can't be solved so easily and they haven't arisen suddenly in 1 year, 2, 4 or 5 years. They were growing. Yes, this kind of thing needs to be changed at a point in time, and it may not force so much as to appeal to the government to change. And what else is the question of what happens when this child leaves school and becomes an adult. If he can participate in society, maintain himself, the better it is for those who have led it before, for therapists, for teachers and, above all, for parents, because it is them, as I say, who have the greatest responsibility. But it can happen that unfortunately they will be disabled people. They go into adulthood, and then what? The care system must be different. Yes, it is necessary to create maybe not so much a strategy as a real programme of care for people with disabilities, because disability does not have to result from autism. There could be very different causes here. We have already grown to this point, we are already at such a stage of development that in our country we can deal with particularly disabled people. But, as I say, this resolution should clearly distinguish two systems, two realities. One is the reality of school. By the way, most of the speeches made by the state were emphasized that in school as it is, it is, but, nevertheless, it is fairly structured. And the other is the reality of caring for adults with disabilities. I'll support this resolution. Not because I think she's perfect, just because she notices the problem. But once again, the problem is different for children. This problem is not a lack of strategy. This problem may be point-by-point possible non-standard critical situations That's what I'd call it. We already know how to deal with autistic children. We know what needs to be done. And what else is the question of adults. There's actually a lot to do here. But we should also make a clear distinction. Otherwise, if we mess it up in one pot, we're just not gonna tell the truth. So we're not really going to achieve the purpose that this resolution calls for. Just help people with the spectrum of autism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u45	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u46	Mr. Marshal, I'm very brief. I... [[There you go. You have five minutes.]] I'd like to protest against getting me into some kind of political ax. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, but I don't know if it's politics that takes away some people's ability to listen with understanding. I would like to repeat what I said: I presented the voice of the environment. This isn't my idea that I got out of there. I quoted someone and said something. This is the voice of the environment. It's consulted. Every word I say is consulted with the environment. Where did I say it was normal? How dare you say something like that to mess with me and tell me that? I said, "It's happening too." Where's the word "normal"? It happens. It happens because it happens. And so says the environment that I'm trying to represent here. I said there were pseudotherapists. They're showing up. The environment is great, I work with them. I don't know who's been in contact with this environment before. I'm sure Senator Orzechowska will bow her forehead. I believe you're working, you're in contact with this environment, and you represent it. As for the other statements, I have serious doubts. I said the voice of the environment. I said, it's happening. I didn't think this resolution would cause such controversy that single words would be drawn out of context. Yeah, it's working. This system's getting better and better. Thanks to the cooperation of the government above all and the government of course, and social organizations it is working better. But there are situations that need to be eliminated, and this system needs to be improved. So I'm facing the whole community of people, specialists, great specialists, which are very many. System solutions need to be developed to improve the functioning of this system, which will allow for a professional path, to acquire these qualifications. The point is that people who really need this care are taken care of by people who have such qualifications. So one more time: I'm denouncing that I said that the whole environment is like this. I said I'm going to repeat the story. And please don't put me in such a political fight in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u47	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Bogusława Orzechowska remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The next insult is listening with understanding. Perhaps I do not always understand what Senator Tyszkiewicz says, but you have made it clear. It's not possible for a few people to hear exactly the same thing. I work with children with autism as a pediatrician. These children work with teachers, rehabilitators, speech counselors. It was said that there are people who have completed some courses and have permissions. I can assure you that there are no such cases in normal facilities working with children in the spectrum of autism. All those who work with these children have a higher education. Yes, they may have some extra privileges and a number of additional courses, but they certainly are not those who have obtained privileges on one course and suddenly have taken care of such children. Don't insult the medical environment and the environment of all those who care about children with autism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u49	Thank you, Senator. The discussion is closed. We'll proceed to the vote in nine minutes. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, everyone has to come. [[Talking in the O.R.]] That's at 1:20 p.m. [[Mr. Marshal, in four minutes...]] [[You're not gonna make it in nine minutes.]] [[Voice from the room: Technical break...]] Time out for an hour... [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, I had an appointment with the doctor. I wanted to vote, and I can't.]] Well, wait a minute. And if you can't vote, you'll be excused. Don't worry. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Repeat, recess to 13.20. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 11 to 13 minutes 20]] We are voting on a draft resolution on support and equal opportunities for people in the spectrum of autism. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm gonna need the results. 96 senators voted in favour, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 4]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on support and equal opportunities for people in the spectrum of autism. We proceed with the review of item 2 of the agenda: the law amending the law on the suspension of the sale of property of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and on the amendment of certain laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 350 and the committee's report In print No 350 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jack Bogucki, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act amending the Act on the Stopping Sale of Property of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and on the Change of Certain Acts is a government project which was adopted by the Sejm on 17 March this year. This project entered the Senate and was transferred to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. At the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on 8 April, the committee examined the draft and decided by a majority to adopt it without amendments. This project extends the period for the sale of property of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury by 5 years, i.e. until 30 April 2026. This project also introduces an additional requirement. The point is to obtain consent for the sale, because such consent is possible after a possible buyer has submitted an application and has been sent by the Director of the National Agricultural Support Centre to the Minister for Agriculture... The aim is therefore to oblige the Director of the National Agricultural Support Centre to indicate what social reasons justify such sales if such approval is sought. Although, in practice, this was the case, it was not included in the Act as a mandatory requirement. This bill is relatively short. During the committee's work, the discussion concerned in general the management of agricultural land and the sale, its concentration, the reasons for regulating this state both in Poland and in other countries. A few years ago, a document was sent to the European Commission, a report emphasising that in the world, including in Europe, agricultural land has been taken over by financial institutions, by those who do not buy it and do not take over ownership in different ways in order to carry out agricultural activities. On the one hand, such a concentration, on the other hand, is generally taking over agricultural land in non-European countries, Africa, Asia, South America, but also in Europe according to this report. Also in Poland we have seen the phenomenon of speculative land buy-out by so-called. poles. The size of this phenomenon is difficult to evaluate, because if something happens illegally, contrary to the law, the data is always only estimated, incomplete. This amended law is one of those laws, under which agricultural land was traded in Poland several years ago. In the case of land owned by the State Treasury, the agricultural land which is in the stock of the National Agricultural Support Centre, this 5-year period, which has been in force until now, has been extended for another 5 years. The basic form that farmers are willing to use is the lease of land. These leases include land in a resource of over 1 million 300 thousand ha, so the vast majority of the land, which is owned by the State Treasury, is now leased. Your Senate, on behalf of the committee, I request that this law be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u51	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. You're asking Senator Alexander Swed. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question. In the explanatory memorandum, the aim of halting the sale of agricultural property from the stock was to stem a strong trend in the price increase in the sale of agricultural land, and What you were talking about. Against speculative buying-out of agricultural property by domestic and foreign persons who do not guarantee the social interest of using the land acquired for agricultural purposes. I wanted to ask if the committee was talking about how many national persons and how many foreign persons or other foreign institutions are interested in buying such land in Poland. Were there any statistics in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u53	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u54	Mr. Senator, it's hard to talk about what the level of interest in redemption is because this buyout has been suspended for five years. So it's really hard to judge, and we didn't talk about it at the committee meeting. It was mentioned that such events had taken place earlier, that a significant part of the land, including the one owned by the State Treasury, had arrived earlier, when there were no such restrictions, at the hands of foreign entities. If I remember the data correctly, about 10% leased land in Poland was formally leased by foreign entities. But when it comes to informal matters related to the purchase of land by the so-called. Poles, by people planted, i.e. those that meet Polish requirements, are probably not such data. Perhaps the Ministry has some estimates, but we didn't talk about it at the committee meeting. Rather, we talked about the fact that it was precisely the suppression of the upward trend in land prices that was at the heart of this law, beyond the fundamental issue, i.e. countering the sale of land to those who do not necessarily want to work in agriculture. And there are also cases where those who bought the pope land do not grow it, but rent it to their neighbors, farmers who cultivate it. Well, there haven't been any restrictions like that in years. So that as far as these issues are concerned, these 2 objectives have been, it seems, achieved. Although the prices of land on the market between farmers have been rising for years, they are still lower in Poland than in other countries of the European Union, and the prices of land from the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury have stabilised in recent years. Well, at the same time, because there are no sales here, and the transactions between farmers, those in private land trading... These issues have been settled in another law. Here, certain conditions must be met, which prevent the sale of unauthorised persons. This speculative land movement in Poland seems to have been stopped in this way.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u55	Senator Aleksander Swed once again asks the question. [[I'd like to ask, Mr. Marshal.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u56	Thank you. Mr. Senator, as you said, the purchase has been stopped, only that this period of cessation of the sale of agricultural property expires on 30 April. And that's why it's an amendment. The point is to extend this deadline. But there's something else I'd like to ask you. Yeah, I asked you that earlier. I understand there were no such statistics at the committee meeting. But in the justification there is information about the prices of land in Poland. Were there any statistics that would show how this applies in other countries of the European Union, especially in Western European countries? Because we know that this land, even though its price increases annually, is however Sorry about the colloquialism. A lovely treat for foreign institutions. However, these prices are relatively low compared to prices from Western countries. We know that they are low, but the point is whether there were some detailed statistics presented at the committee's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u57	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u58	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! At this meeting, we did not discuss such details. Well, the data on land management in Poland were of course presented earlier, at other committee meetings, but at this meeting we did not discuss it in such detail. However, the senator rightly pointed out that this is important, especially in the current period when we are dealing with such a low, actually zero interest rate on bank deposits. Capital is relatively readily available, so there is certainly a risk of speculative redemption. Someone can invest in land not to carry out agricultural activities, but to obtain EU subsidies to lease it to interested farmers who do not have the capacity to buy such land. It would certainly be a big threat, especially in conjunction with what the senator mentioned. However, the average price of land in Poland is lower than in other countries, especially Western Europe. But we didn't discuss it in detail. During the committee meeting, Mr President of the committee drew attention to this, the MEP, Mr Krzysztof Jurgel, so this was the discussion, but we did not refer to specific statistical issues.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u59	Thank you. Senator Jacek Bury is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u60	High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I have a question for you. This law is kind of an extension of the law that was passed five years ago, but there are some changes here. Art. 2 (2) 2 is replaced by a new wording, which makes it possible for the Minister to sell the land, as you mentioned, for social or economic and social purposes, with the agreement of the Minister. As you can see, on the basis of this change in possession of the land, religious unions may enter. I would like to ask whether the exclusion of certain institutions from this prohibition does not conflict with the constitutional principle of equality before the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u61	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u62	Mr. Senator, I've already mentioned this, but I'll explain again, I'll clarify. A record on the possibility of selling land in the original law, in Article. 2, it existed before, it was possible. In the case of real estate intended for the development plan, in the study of conditions, whether in the decision on conditions of construction and land development for purposes other than agricultural purposes it was possible to sell the real estate up to 2 ha. But there were also lips. 2 who said that I would quote it. The minister responsible for rural development, at the request of the Director-General of the National Agricultural Support Centre, may consent to the sale of property or parts thereof other than those mentioned in paragraph 2. 1, if justified by socio-economic considerations. We in the Act only clarify that the Director of the National Agricultural Support Centre is obliged to justify these considerations in order to explain in the explanatory memorandum what socio-economic considerations this is in favour of. So it is really a clarification and, on the other hand, an addition to the law which obliges the Minister, when making his decision, to have full knowledge of the reasons behind the sale. So that there is no facilitation here, it is rather a clarification and introduction into the statutory record of an indication in which procedure and in which procedure such consent is to be given.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u63	Thank you. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski's questions, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, this amendment is intended, first, to extend in time, and secondly, to extend in time. That's what I'd call it. The seal of the mother's law on the sale of agricultural property of the State Treasury. And everything would be fine, but I was wondering if... Because we have an art. 2 (2) 1, he's talking about certain exceptions to the general rule of prohibition of sales or maybe stopping sales. The provision of the Article. 1 is the one talking about stopping sales, in this case 10 years is not applicable to sales... And so far there have been 4 points, and now the fifth is added: shares in the joint ownership of the properties referred to in points 1 and 4 of the previous ones. So we're increasing the number of exceptions, which means we're loosening this bill here. Am I right or wrong? Because please note that if the number of exceptions increases, there should be more sales opportunities.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u65	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u66	That is how it would seem, Mr. Senator, but it is important to remember that point 5 refers to points 1 and 4, i.e. those mentioned earlier. This provision allows for the sale of real estate as defined in these 4 points without the need to obtain the consent of the Director of KOWR and at the same time without prejudice to the provisions of the Act. In the case of joint ownership, there was doubts as to whether participation in joint ownership for these 4 purposes could be sold, hence the approval of the Director-General of the National Agricultural Support Centre and the Minister's consent were needed. So what's really moving in is just a clarification, because if you can sell the whole property, then you can also sell the shares in this property. For these 4 purposes and not for any other purpose It seems to be a logical complement to this solution, not an extension. Because really selling the whole property brings more rights than selling shares in this property.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u67	Thank you. Senator Alexander Swed. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u68	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, I would also like to ask if the agriculture committee was discussing how the issue of regulating land sales was resolved in other countries of the European Union. We are repeatedly accused of imposing quite strict bans on the sale of agricultural property, land, but, as we know, in many other countries there are such national laws that these restrictions are much more restrictive. In the impact assessment, we have no information on what it looks like in other countries. But were there such questions at the committee meeting, and was this question raised? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u69	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u70	We must remember, Mr. Senator, that this law regulates only the sale of real estate, or actually prohibits the sale of property owned by the State Treasury rather than the entire turnover. The rules governing the turnover mentioned by the senator are broader rules in force both in Poland and in other countries of the European Union. Perhaps for this reason we did not discuss what it was like in other countries. We have not analysed how the sale of ownership of state resources looks like in other European countries. It must be remembered that in Poland these are former popegeer lands, and probably there is no such property in Western European countries. In other countries of the former socialist camp there were much more such properties. Well, luckily in Poland, in my opinion, it was possible to avoid excessive concentration of land. If I remember correctly, the largest farm in Romania has over 60,000 ha. Well, it's hard to say that it's a family farm, that it's a typical farm farm, it's a big company. In Ukraine, perhaps even larger areas have been concentrated. These records are intended to counteract such situations in Poland, so that it does not happen, on the one hand, to speculate... Well, in Poland we certainly have a problem with growing farms, but we are still talking about farms. In this case, we want to make sure that large areas do not go to those who do not want to deal with agriculture. But, like I said, we didn't compare it, there wasn't that kind of data. I agree with the senator that, in some countries of the European Union, these restrictions are even greater in terms of agricultural land trading, in part they are similar to Polish ones. Generally, agricultural land in most countries of the European Union is protected so that it is, on the one hand, devoted to agricultural purposes, on the other hand, to those who carry out agricultural activities on it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u71	Thank you. Thank you, Senator. There are no more questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does Minister Richard Bartosik wish to speak? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u72	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On 30 April 2021, the period for which the sale of real estate belonging to the Agricultural Property Resources of the Treasury was suspended is 30 April 2021. The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development has developed a draft law on amending the law on the suspension of the sale of property of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and on the amendment of certain laws. This law was adopted by the Sejm on 17 March 2021. First of all, the Act provides for an extension of the period of suspension of the sale of the property of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury for a further 5 years, i.e. by 30 April 2026 This will allow the sale of real estate in 2016 to be maintained as a result of the cessation of the sale of real estate as a resource of objectives. These objectives are to maintain the principle that leasing is a basic form of disposal of agricultural property from that stock. This is of great interest to individual farmers, as it creates a convenient way of using land and buildings and does not require significant financial resources from tenants, as is the case in the case of permanent real estate acquisitions. Another objective is to prevent speculative buying-out of agricultural property by entities that do not guarantee socially compatible use of the land purchased for agricultural purposes, as well as to stabilise the price level of those land which are in the Agricultural Property Resources of the Treasury. It also maintains the principle that the cessation of the sale of real estate belonging to the stock does not apply to non-agricultural real estate and therefore so-called. investment property, and real estate with an area of up to 2 ha. For the sale of such properties is therefore not and will not be further required by the Director-General of the National Agricultural Support Centre to obtain the approval of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Dear Marshal, High Senate! In view of the fact that the law adopted in 2016 is due to expire soon, at the end of April, on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, I propose that this law be adopted without amendment. This is very important because this law should enter into force on 30 April this year, so please very much the High Senate. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u73	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Benjamin Godyla's questions, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u74	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! My question Of course, it concerns the extension of the time limit for the suspension of the sale of land, which is the property of the State Treasury. I think it's very hurtful... I'll ask you a question later. This is very harmful for farmers who want to grow. There are young farmers who can't really lease this land for more than three years, who can't make a business plan for themselves, they can't buy machines or anything, because it doesn't guarantee that they're still alive. They can't buy land from the state, although it could be cheaper. All that remains is the purchase of land, you can say, from private individuals. I'm from Opole, there's a famine of land. I live in the country, I feel it, and I know that young people don't want to take over farms from their parents because they're small farms, they can't develop at all, because there's a ban... And that's my question: did you think in the ministry about the definition of an active farmer? Why are we here to tighten up, introduce bans? Let's introduce the definition of an active farmer to specify who the farmer is, and let him buy this land. What's with the bans? This is unnecessary, instead of helping this farming, we're still depressing it... Then we'd have a lot of business done, even with the KRUS. Because then KRUS would actually pay the farmer, not the one with a hectare of field or... We're talking about the so-called ones. poles. Those poles wouldn't be there by then. So please answer if you're even thinking about defining an active farmer. Well, then you wouldn't need that kind of tightening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u75	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u76	First, I will refer to the first part of your speech, and then I will answer the question asked. Dear Senator, in terms of lease, this form of land use from the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury is very popular. Farmers lease it not only for three years, but also for a long time. These cases are dealt with by the departments of the National Agricultural Support Centre. Contracts are renewed because farmers with their income often cannot afford to buy land. Okay, there's a hunger for the earth, but this hunger is also satisfied by renting the land out of our resources. The problem you have taken up concerns a wider issue, including: Act on the management of agricultural real estate of the State Treasury. This is a completely different bill. Work is underway on its amendment. We are wondering how to adapt it, how to adapt the rules on management to today's and future rural reality. We believe that this period of 5 years is necessary to prepare for the disposal of this resource in the future. Today, however, the law on the cessation of sales is necessary. Moreover, farmers are pleased with this form of use of the Treasury resources. As for the second question, Minister Grzegorz Puda announced the work - Well, this kind of work is already going on. on the determination of the status of the agricultural holding, the status of the farmer. They are at a very preliminary stage, but this announcement is binding. The work in this area is ongoing and I think that we will be debating this shortly in our parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u77	Thank you. Senator Alexander Swed. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, actually, I'd like to go back to those questions I've already asked. Well, first question. This issue has already been raised It concerned the fact that the period of suspension of the sale of real estate expired, as the Minister said, on 30 April. Various people from the country and abroad who are interested in buying the land do not know whether we will extend this period or not in this amendment. Is there any interest here? What does it look like about this buyout? Are there any requests for the purchase of these lands? I also asked about the price of the property before. Well, the price of agricultural land in Poland is actually rising, but it is still relatively low, lower than in other countries. I would like to ask what it looks like in other countries, what these restrictions look like when it comes to land sales. I am asking about other countries, especially Western European countries. Well, we know that buying an hectare of land in Germany or France is virtually impossible. On the one hand, this issue is often raised, and on the other hand, we are accused of imposing certain restrictions on the sale of agricultural property from the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury. Do you have that knowledge? If not, I ask for a written reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u79	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u80	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to those damn regulations that have prevented land acquisition since 2016, we have in some way been modelled on regulations from other countries, where, indeed, as the senator said, it is virtually impossible to purchase agricultural land. We are in a specific situation because we have the so-called Treasury in our resources. Popegeer land, hence the bill that we are presenting, which we want to extend, hence these regulations. As I said before, the bill accompanying these regulations This is only an exception to the prohibition on the management of the Agricultural Property Resource of the State Treasury. We're analyzing this bill, too. As to whether there's any interest, I'm going to say that in this respect, Senator Bogucki mentioned this earlier. The fact that this prohibition was in force was not naturally of that interest. There are foreign tenants, that is a remnant after an earlier period when the law did not apply. We don't see interest because we just don't have sales. I don't have any information right now... Perhaps in the voivodship departments of the National Agricultural Support Centre such inquiries were made. I'm committed to giving the senator a written reply once I've seen the situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u81	Thank you. Senator Joanna Sekuła.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u82	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask you about the question of whether there are any exemptions in this law that would concern anyone who can acquire land. That's the first question. Second question. Have you consulted farmers' environments, associations, associations that would express their views on the existing restrictions on land marketing? Do you foresee the possibility of opening a sale, e.g. for the emerging agricultural cooperatives? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u83	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u84	The exemptions are saved, there are very few. The basic record is that up to two hectares of surface area... that the National Agricultural Support Centre can make such a sale. Of course, the consultation lasted... [[I'm sorry. Are there other shut-offs?]] Yes, those exemptions were mentioned. They're about religious relationships. And that's basically everything, but if... [[And is there any justification for this exclusion?]] These are the reasons for the social objectives decided by the National Agricultural Support Centre. The centre gives its opinion to the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, who decides on this. As far as the consultation on this project is concerned, it was, of course, carried out. As I remember, one of the postulates of the Independent Self-Governmental Association of Individual Farmers has been included in this project. Maybe somebody's gonna ask: Why only one? As we can see, the bill is very short and essentially concerns the extension of the sales ban for another 5 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u85	Thank you. Senator, in a minute, okay? The next round. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! If you can't answer, you don't have the data, I'd ask for an answer in writing right away. Namely the above-mentioned law, i.e. The mother's bill was intended to prevent unintelligible That's what I'd call it. The sale of land from the resources of the State Treasury. It applies for approximately 5 years. I would ask for data, as it has been for the previous 5 years, how much land was simply sold from these resources before the entry into force of the said law, i.e. in 2011 and 2016, and how much land was sold now. And these data, in the regime of this law, please divide as if into two groups: one is statutory exemptions, i.e. from paragraph. One, and the other is the exclusion, I would call it discretionary, which is the mouth. 2. I don't know if I've made myself clear. [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Tomasz Grodzki]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u87	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! That's what we're gonna provide. I don't have them right now, Senator. But I just want to say, in general, that the bill came from the fact that we had a problem with the fact that the land was not necessarily sold for agricultural purposes, very often for speculative purposes or for other purposes. As I recall, there was such a huge request for trade unions. There were protests. We leaned on this problem and thanks to this law then, in 2016, the said sale of land was stopped. But as far as the details are concerned, of course I'm committed to delivering them to the senator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u89	Thank you very much, Minister. Now you're asking Senator Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, actually, I'd like to ask you about what happened earlier... And if you don't have that kind of knowledge, I'm gonna ask for a written reply. I mean the land leased by people from Poland and abroad as part of the property of the agricultural property of the Treasury. How many people are there? What's the scale? How many hectares are leased at the moment? Well, that's also an indication of how many people are likely to be interested in buying these properties later. I will ask you to extend this information, which I asked for earlier, possibly in writing, also for this information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u91	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u92	Of course, Mr. Senator, that's the information we'll provide. Nevertheless, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are going through this discussion. And that's very good. God forbid I'm criticizing it. In addition to the scope of this law, we are already talking about a law on the management of the agricultural resources of the State Treasury. But of course, that's the information I'm gonna provide. Foreigners who want to run farms, use agricultural land in Poland... There's a record of them, about living, about living in the country. There are other strongholds. We'll provide the senator with detailed information on the number and the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u93	Thank you very much. Your question is Senator Sekuła.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u94	If I could also ask for data on the number of transactions that have been included in this last five-year period, including exemptions for religious unions... And I would also ask you to answer my third question, which is whether you provide for the possibility of making land trading available to agricultural cooperatives. Because if the consultation concerned only one trade union, NSZZ.Solidarity, I understand that it was a very limited consultation. Somehow it happens that the consultation is currently only attended by.Solidarity. And I also have a few examples of that from my district. Nevertheless, it is very important for me to get an answer to the question whether you provide for the possibility of marketing, selling land to agricultural cooperatives, because activity in this area is a priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u95	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u96	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, Senator, I didn't really answer that question. This law clearly limits the sale of land from the Treasury's resources, and therefore there is no such possibility under this law. This question also concerns the principles of management. This is the case with a separate law, which I said earlier. We analyze and try to adapt to the current reality and needs in the countryside. In any case, we are adopting a law that prohibits sales for the next five years, and here we are not talking about agricultural cooperatives. However, no one forbids the lease of such land and it is possible, at some time, to organise tenders for the lease of land in the Treasury's resources and for the management of leased land. As far as the rest of the issues are concerned, of course, I'll give the senator the information in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u97	Thank you very much. Does senator man want to ask if he's signing up for a discussion? I'm asking because we don't know for sure here. Does Senator Man remotely want to enroll in the question or in the discussion? We can't hear you, Senator. We can see. Well, unfortunately... [[... to ask questions and speak in the discussion.]] I can hear you now. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u98	Good. I would like to ask the Minister a question, and then I would also like to speak in the debate, a short voice in the discussion. Minister, I do not argue with the government's policies, and I accepted this whole reform carried out in 2016, although I did not like it. However, this bill does not agree with the justification, there are even contradictions in the justification. The first objective of this law is to reduce the increase in agricultural property prices, and yet this law reduces supply. Minister, you can also see this in the justification, where you present diagrams, how the prices of land traded in private with the land prices of the Agricultural Property Agency are spreading. Well, when the supply of land is limited, it automatically increases its price, and this land is already in private trade in some regions at such a price that it is comparable to prices in rich Western countries. In this situation, profitability for farmers is becoming increasingly problematic. That's why I'm asking you: how do we achieve this first goal? After all, reducing the supply of land will result in an even greater increase in prices in private trade. If you want to reduce this and make this land available to farmers, you should rather lower it... Why don't you explain to me what this is all about? How did you... What economic concept do you want to apply to this effect? The effect will be quite the opposite, as it was seen in previous years, during the duration of this ban. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u99	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u100	Thank you very much. We do not refer to the prices of the land in private trade in the explanatory memorandum, because this is a completely different matter. With regard to the land in the Treasury's resources, we stand in the position that it should be leased. And if it were to be sold, if we were to change the law on the management of the land in the Treasury's resources, we need to prepare ourselves accordingly. Farmers must also be prepared for this, because we would like this land, if it were to be sold, to actually go to family farms, to individual farmers. Individual farmers are satisfied with this form of lease and are currently participating in tenders. The lease agreement is concluded for many years. In addition, we modify the form of leasing. The lease of a large area ends, we divide it into smaller parts, smaller quarters, so that individual farmers can benefit from it. And we believe that this extension should take place. This will enable farmers to prepare themselves if there are possible decisions regarding the sale of this land. But we would like to do this in such a way that the land is put into the hands of individual farmers, so that it does not form a long-term fund, or that the land does not go to those who simply have free funds and do not treat the agricultural land as a land under cultivation, but treat it as a place for their capital. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u101	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Now I have a specific question about the content of the bill, the novels, or, in fact, what I believe is not in the text of the law, and perhaps it would be worth putting. It's about transitional provisions. In general, I am in favour of this law, this amendment being in force, but there may always be problems in the case of transitional provisions. The only provision in this regard concerns the proposal of the Director-General of the NKR to the Minister. Well, that's good. But the question is: how will the law be applied at a time when, for example. Who would apply to buy a large area of land today? And here's the thing: normally, you'd cover yourselves up... you'd point to an art. One, we don't sell... But this is valid for 5 years according to the current content. The proposal is made, let's say, today. The Act enters into force on 30 April, but the application was still filed under the old law, i.e. with the applicable 5-year period. What about an application that was not dealt with and will be considered after 30 April? Which rules will we apply: old or new? Someone's gonna say, "We know it's new." It is not so obvious, because usually by default, if there are no transitional provisions, the old rules apply, and the old ones talked about a period of 5 years. And that's it, there's no protection. Question: Shouldn't such a transitional provision be placed here for caution?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u103	Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! As far as this law is concerned, it is primarily about extending the existing legislation. I take the view that such a solution as you are talking about is not necessary. The law or amendment of the law went through the whole legislative process. The legislators in the Seym, the Senate, and the ministers did not pay attention to this, and therefore there is no need to do so as the senator points out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u105	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Swede a question. I'll just remind you that at 2:00 p.m., we had the Ombudsman's report scheduled. I wouldn't want to interrupt the procession of this point, and I'd rather finish it. I'd like to ask you to consider the procession.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u106	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. That's the last question. Minister, I would like to ask you so de facto... I would like to partially elaborate on what you asked Senator Czerwiński and ask about the procedure. In the bill we have indicated the exemptions, there is a possibility that religious unions will acquire land somewhere. I understand that this is done on the basis of a decision issued by the Director-General of the National Agricultural Support Centre. And what happens when the director decides there's no exemption and makes a negative decision? Can such a decision be appealed against? I'm talking about a decision issued by the Director-General of KOWR. If so, what are the rules? What's the procedure? Is there even a procedure in this regard? I'm asking because I don't think the bill provides for that.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u107	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u108	There is no appeal in this regard. This decision is always supported by the Minister's position. Appeals in this respect are not foreseen.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u109	Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Bober will be the first to speak. Thank you very much. [[Richard for Richard, Mr. Marshal, so briefly...]] All Ryski are cool guys.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u110	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Indeed, we are proceeding with a very important bill. A law that really talks about the future of the Polish village, about what Polish agriculture is supposed to look like. She's very emotional. I think it's partly unnecessary. However, I will address a number of issues that have been raised by your senators, even to a sensitive point, which the Minister did not want to answer directly. It's about the exemption of religious relationships. Well, Mr and Mrs Senators, at this stage of the process, we cannot make such an application, because it will be unconstitutional. He would have touched three laws, including the concordat. It would have to be the first, second reading in the Sejm, as well as the procedure in this Chamber, so I ask that this request be not supported. The Senate may take the initiative of a separate law, but at this stage of the process we cannot proceed this proposal as a constitutional one. I would like to address a few points, because there are indeed contradictions here. In fact, land use in Poland has been inhibited since 2005. We should split up... The time when Poland was not in the Union is one step. At that time, the agricultural land really didn't have any value, we had huge floors, and there was no interest. Then, after the entry into the Union, when the subsidies appeared, the interest in agricultural land suddenly started to grow. Not in the first period, but then I do. At first farmers did not believe that there would be subsidies, that there would be subsidies for the modernisation of farms, that the common agricultural policy mechanism would also apply to Poland. Then, when they found out that these were not virtual measures, only measures that directly improve the situation of their farms and families, suddenly began selling resources, selling agricultural land. In fact, there is no large sales, sales were definitely stopped during this period. It was said that the poles were buying Polish land. I'm sure the Minister will present the statistics. That's the margin, that's the percentage. Most of the land, which is leased by foreign entities with the participation of Polish capital... It's in company form. There is also a restriction on the transfer of shares in this law. By virtue of this law, such acts, if someone wants to transfer, dispose of shares to third parties, will not be important, because we here will limit it. But, Minister, it's been lifted up here, in this courtroom, that every farmer has three mothers. This third mother, the earth, is everything to him and he cares for this land. And let's not talk about the fact that lease is the best form of land development, because everyone, when in the short term... And if the Minister follows up, he will find out that these leases are actually signed for a short period of two to five years, depending on which region, which areas it concerns, but they are. And there will not properly be an economy or agricultural activity. And I'll give you examples here, for example, when the best land, first class, is leased too high a rent, and suddenly it's used to produce lawns. So every year, someone cuts down the best 5 cm of land, curls up and sells lawns. Well, we can't stop a certain activity and we can't stop it. We are not able to save certain limitations in the form of laws, and here there is a manifest degradation of these best lands. However, we are actually facing a challenge that Senator Godyla here, for example, has to be defined as an active farmer. This must happen, because until it does, young farmers will not want to take over farms, and this is probably the biggest problem of Polish agriculture, that there are no successors, that they do not see prospects. New Deal But New Deal also forces restrictions and precision in the application of agricultural inputs. There, on a small area, no one will. If we artificially restrict the area and the development of these small farms In particular young farmers It's really going to be a problem with New Deal, too, with the introduction and writing down of certain priorities that need to be there. And the European Commission has put it as a priority: an active farmer, who is a farmer. And we must come together with the Ministry, including with the Senate, to such solutions and conclusions. I think that this limitation to 2 ha is an artificial restriction, because there are plots, areas having 2,30 , 2,50, 3 ha It's different. I will submit an amendment on the limitation to 5 ha, which I tabled at the committee meeting, and she has not received approval there, but I ask that we accept it. After all, in fact, at the moment KOWR in a given voivodship decides which land is to be sold. There's no way anyone, not a farmer, could buy it right now. After all, there are procedures concerning the agricultural chamber, the opinion, from the chief, through the council of the municipality, through the agricultural chamber Everyone contributes to deciding whether such land can be sold or not. And I think the insistence on that... Well, two or five ha... well, I had a disagreement with the chairman of the committee about it, but I'm sticking with my own, so we can miss each other here. We will support this law for one reason only, that the Minister for Agriculture, Mr Jurgiel, present at the committee meeting, said that there is indeed a fundamental basis for changing the management of land resources. And that's the only thing that convinces me that such action and such solutions will be effective and then no records will be needed, no laws that will limit the rotation of agricultural land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u111	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Antoni the Man will speak remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u112	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you practically didn't answer my question, because the truth is probably a little different than what you're trying to say here. I am not only concerned with what this law is about, because you say that this law concerns only the trading of state land, or KOWR, but this is about the whole agricultural policy and I think that this is the most important thing. And because, Minister, my club, because this law is in itself contradictory, but also because we believe that private property is this property Poland has shown this at various times, which will make the most effective use of this land... We believe that this property should be owned by farmers. All the more so that it exists. And that's what my predecessors were talking about here. The great famine of the earth. And I think what we're talking about here should be regulated in a market way. Therefore, Minister, my club, but I, in particular, will not be able to support this bill, as Senator Bober said here. We will vote against this law because we believe that market conditions do not allow the development of agriculture to continue to be hindered by reducing the size of farms. Especially since the old farmers are dying out, the successors have no land and they cannot purchase the land, because the state collects it and spends it on very short lease agreements. The lease agreement is good, as far as agricultural property is concerned, if such an agreement is for 15 or 30 years. For this period the farmer can buy the equipment and this equipment will not be wasted because it will be depreciated within such time. Also with regard to the agricultural model... There could be different models. We know that there is a farm model that is very effective in all respects, and ecologically, because larger machines, technologically developed, allow for less chemical use, because they have mechanisms that can limit... And the effect will be better. And also the economic efficiency of such a farm is much greater and then the availability of food is greater. But if you want a model like this a little bit connected to it... It is about what you presented in 2016, the economic model a little related to such agricultural reform, that we can accept. But this must not lead us to restrict agricultural activity by the fact that the land will be in state resources and the country will operate on the basis of its own will. That's why we're voting against this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u113	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u114	It's like he's being provoked to express his voice after all... Because we also followed this in our committee meeting and indeed we had different approaches, there was a discussion. I'd like to draw your attention... Here one senator pointed out that it was not a widely consulted bill. Mostly organizations get a set of... These are 80 organizations that speak or do not speak. I know that many organizations have spoken about this law and made comments. And it's not just one relationship. That's the way it's been said that only one relationship was involved... I know that the chambers have spoken, and I know that many other organizations have spoken. So that this law was actually consulted and it cannot be said that no. However, as far as the relationship between RI and Solidarity is concerned, we have tabled several dozen amendments, except that they concerned a wider scope of action, not just the one we are discussing today. Because we are talking about a small element of what is, and we are looking forward to the changes that result from this second law. Furthermore, as Minister Jurgiel mentioned at the committee meeting, material, team work, etc. was prepared. And it wasn't implemented... And there's an appeal to take these further steps. I think it's time to lean on it and clarify. Because those amendments that we have tabled, even recently, should also be included in the latter law. Do you turn the earth and the price of the earth... Well, the price of land depends on whether there's a sale. If there's no sale, there's no price. But I would like to remind you that, above all, there was more than 4 million ha in the Treasury's resources, and today is probably less than 1.5 million. That indicates that almost 2.5 million ha has been sold. And it was sold at the beginning for 1 thousand PLN for 1 ha, then for 3 thousand PLN for 1 ha. If there haven't been 1 ha for 3 grand yet, it's been a lease for 30 years. Somewhere around 2000. I don't know exactly what year it was. The leases were extended to 30 years, so they still last. And there will probably be more than 10 years of these contracts that were signed at the beginning of 2000. And here's the biggest problem that's the problem. not all of Poland, because this is the problem of the Western and Northern lands. There's the biggest problem. And the biggest strikes were right there. In Szczecin and in Lower Silesia. That's where the biggest protests were. And why were there protests? Because we allowed a transitional provision for negotiations, which said that 12 years were prohibited from selling Polish land... And, as we remember, we entered in 2016, when this prohibition did not apply. The first amendment of the Act, which was implemented, took place in 2015. In 2015, when we finished the strike in the so-called. Green town. On June 27th, as I remember today, because I presided over this strike, we got from Mrs.Ewa Kopacz a guarantee that, in the law on restricting the sale of land, let's call it a free one, the rule that is in France, in Germany will be applied. There's so-called in France. SAFER, i.e. the institution that deals with this. There to buy, to buy land If you're not French It's a really big play. And we expected such a bill to be. And she was guaranteed by Mrs. Kopacz. We were talking at the Prime Minister's firm about how this guarantee would be. So this isn't an idea. Laws and Justice implemented in 2016 Indeed, Minister Jurgiel stopped the sale of this land. After all, at any time without a law, he could stop the sale of the land, as he thought the land was not for sale. And there was no need for a bill. If the agency ever did, and today the NOWR doesn't want to sell, it won't sell. And even if that rule didn't come into force now, the minister's decision may be that he's not selling this land to anyone. 'Cause he doesn't have to, he can sell. And this provision was introduced to make it clear that it is Parliament's will to do so. And I'm in favour of limiting the sale of this land today, of course, and working out some rules. The point is that we have a guarantee that we locally want to acquire this land, not companies. Besides, at a time when there was no ban, foreign companies would demand What they've wanted for years Buying this land on the right of priority. I know that. They're folding their mosquitoes. By different states, the ambassadors are submitting their constipations. I'm not going to exchange ambassadors because it's a waste of time here, but that's the pressure. Well, those foreign companies that have a lease will have, if there's no sale ban, the right of priority. Of course, you can sell, you don't have to. There's also a problem with the lease bill that we don't have. In the West, tenancy is the basis for me to say. And here's where we should say to ourselves, let's set up a lease law. . and such requests were It is intended to be permanent for individuals and not just for the State Treasury, which deals with the resources. Because, in fact, if I'm going to invest... Many farmers say this: I want to lease. And I can give you an example of what I gave at the committee meeting. When I was in Szczecin, I rode a tractor with farmers. One of those farmers bought land. He bought it because he was forced to. And he says, "I wouldn't buy this land, but I was forced to buy it." Because that was the assumption, and it was necessary to introduce more than 2 billion proceeds from the sale of land into the state budget. And what were they doing in the last few years? Either you buy first, as a tenant, or we tender if you refuse. So farmers were even forced, mostly in the Western lands, to buy land from leases on priority rights. And they're in the most difficult situation today. They bought the land, today economic efficiency, you can say, it's small, they're not able to pay the instalments they have, with short deadlines... We have requested that those farmers who have purchased priority rights extend the opportunity to... There would be no financial loss, yet the State would have had or would have had interest on it, because these interest rates are being calculated... Today's credit is cheaper than the interest farmers had when they bought the land. Because they keep paying. And it has to be done because we can't make it happen... Now these farmers are saying, "What you're gonna do is, if we're in bankruptcy, you can say... if there's an agency taking over the land, maybe you'll buy it from us now, maybe we'll lease it right now, and you'll give us the money back. Well, there's a lot of ideas like that, but I'm not talking about it, I'm talking about what farmers say. And they say, "How can you leave us at this moment when we are unable to function?" At the moment, farmers are clearly saying that lease should last, not five years, only a minimum of 15 years should function so that the farmer knows... And as this farmer says, my son is 40 years old; if I didn't have to buy this land, I would gladly wait and give the lease to my son, so that it would be possible to transfer the lease, not just in case of death. Because it is, in the event of death, it is possible to hand over this lease to him and let him decide whether to buy the land or lease it. Because coercion, by force, is sometimes simply inefficient, forced to manage, sometimes children do not want to take over farms at all. Today, most of them don't want to take over the farms. We really have a young generation problem that takes over farms or not, and if it takes over, it's for different reasons... I don't want to go into the details of what it looks like, because everybody knows what it's like. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, I would like to ask you to vote on this bill as soon as possible, as the deadline is the 30th and this is just over. We no longer hold the constitutional term for the President to sign, because he should sign as soon as possible, and therefore I would not like us to make any more amendments... But since there's still to be a process of amending the bill and these work is going on, let's see if we can actually allow these areas to be bigger, because for today, frankly, I don't see the justification, so without a broader study... [[Ten minutes, Mr. Senator.]] I'm almost done. What Minister Jurgiel said: we must take care of the so-called. agricultural areas and should be defined as agricultural areas. And we should also define what's important to us. It was raining yesterday at the conference. So that we can really define the goals to be achieved. It's not just trade for trade, it's not trading for trade... We really stopped these processes that happened then, today is safer and, we can say, calmly, hence asking the Minister to undertake these intensive work on the full amendment of not one but two laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u115	Thank you very much, senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the sake of order, I would like to inform you that the senators Alexander Szwed, Ryszard Świlski, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Janusz Pęcherz, Benjamin Godyla and Robert Mątkow have made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Richard Bober. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill under consideration will take place at the end of the Senate meeting, and that the committee will first meet in the light of the legislative proposals tabled. Therefore, I ask the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? You're welcome, Minister, but you just have to turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u116	Dear Marshal, High Senate. In view of the short time limit for the entry into force of this law, however, I would very much ask for it to be adopted without amendments. I understand that an amendment has been tabled by your senator, but if the senator could still verify his position, I would appreciate it. If not, please adopt the proposed law quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u117	I wouldn't worry about that, Minister, because the committee will probably be meeting today or tomorrow morning, and the vote on the bill will still be held at this meeting. Don't worry. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Bartosik: Thank you very much.]] We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: information on the Ombudsman's activities and on the state of compliance with human rights and human rights in 2020. [[The Senators of the Law and Justice Club are leaving the room.]] The text of the information is contained in print No 322. The Senate Marshal sent the information received to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. That Commission took note of the information at its meeting on 7 April 2021. I would like to welcome the ombudsman present at the Senate meeting... [[Applause]] ...Mr. Adam Bodnar. [[Applause]] I'd also like to welcome the deputy spokesperson, Anna Machinska. [[Applause]] I ask the Ombudsman to take the floor and present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u118	Dear Marshal, Dear Marshal! Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, Senators, I am standing in front of the High Senate to present an information on the Ombudsman's activities in 2020, with comments on the state of compliance with human rights and human rights. That's what the constitution obliges me to do. But I would really like to tell the ladies and gentlemen of the senators today about the world in which we have lived in the past few months, which came to my last year of office as spokesperson. I would like to talk about this world not only from the position of a government official carrying out specific tasks, but also, and perhaps above all, from the position of a man living in the middle of Poland and European reality, a man to the depth of what is happening with our fate, with our individual daily problems, but also with our surroundings, with the functioning of law, public institutions, with our country and our role in the international environment. Why is it so important? Because the nation, the state, our civilization and values are only where there is a man, only where the most important principle is the protection of human dignity, which, as the article states. 30 Constitutions are the source of all rights and freedoms. So if we don't put a man and his dignity at the centre of our world's vision, please forgive me. We're just going to be theorizing, not talking about real life. Before I reach the numbers, dates, statistics, intervention of the Ombudsman, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today we are dealing with two powerful crises and one miracle. I apologize for using the word "miracle," but I believe that it also functions in secular language and is the best term for phenomena that elude our imagination. The first crisis is obvious. It concerns threats to our health, concerns the guarantee of our right to health protection. Our individual and collective life is dominated by a pandemic, but not only because it is much deeper, in a sense existential, as well as the future of the whole globe. He has put many dilemmas, many difficult choices ahead of us, and, above all, he has made us aware of how fragile our health safety is, how strong limitations are in terms of our knowledge, speed and research opportunities, and the ability to respond to new types of threats on a mass scale. This crisis also pointed out that we are living in an organic, dependent, closely related world to our relationship with other people, but also to nature and to the climate. It makes us think how much we need to understand, how much we need to change, so that in the future we will not be so helpless against the mass deaths and victims of Coronavirus or other virus or death due to other diseases that we cannot remedy. And not without reason, reading the positions of the representatives of various international organisations, starting with the Secretary-General of the United Nations, by the heads of the European Commission, we see that they see in this crisis basically the most serious global phenomena since World War II. The second crisis is no less challenging because it involves the functioning of our collective lives. In the past few months we have found ourselves in the middle of a gigantic crash test, or you could use a term from the financial language: stress test. Our country, our right, our local structures, apart from their everyday, very small problems to be solved, are under a lot of pressure from day to day. More lockdowns, more restrictions, closing schools, workplaces, as well as temporary state borders, restrictions on mobility made everything start to shake. The state's incapacity in many areas of life has begun to be particularly evident, and any wrong decision of the rulers or irresponsible statement has translated into increasing chaos and confusion among citizens. The cost of running the state and the cost of living on a daily basis began to increase rapidly, and I am referring here not only to economic costs. It's been known to happen, among other things. excessive stubbornness of state structures, inefficient health care systems or an inadequately reformed justice system. We have seen the impact that the rule of law crisis can have on our lives, but also the anti-constitutional trend, which I spoke about in my speech in the Senate on 13 August 2020. In other words, we have seen at an accelerated pace, in which direction we are going as a country, and we have also seen many well-wishing political environments in Europe or in the United States. It seems to me whether I am even convinced that getting out of this crisis is now the most difficult and urgent task, because the main victims of this crisis are the citizens, the weakest, whose rights and freedoms require special protection from us today. But I also said it was a time of miracle. Well, we're alive... What's the miracle? The fact that we live, we function, we do not lose hope. These two powerful crises did not force us, and the vital and mental forces of our society are proving equally powerful. The mobilisation and the ability to respond rationally to different professional and social backgrounds are a particular and genuine admiration. It does not cease to amaze the medical environment, this social phenomenon of coping in extremely exhausting conditions. I'd like to see all those involved in the medical community here. Not only doctors and nurses, but also paramedics, paramedics, salons, laboratory diagnostics, hospital managers, medical institutions, people supplying goods to hospitals and other health care units, people who care about patients also in closed places, such as social care homes or health care establishments [[Applause]] But I would also like to say that heroism has also appeared in many other environments. Among teachers, among lawyers, among social workers, many ecclesiastical circles have also responded wonderfully. There were also extraordinary experts, such as Professor Simon or Dr. Grzesiowski, who led us through a medically difficult pandemic and by trying to understand what was going on. Even though they have suffered a lot of grief from it. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]] But I'd like to say, because it has a special connection to the spokesperson's office, about the person who embarrassed us all. All of us here, in this room, journalists, politicians, the Ministry of Health, medical institutes... The Ombudsman also embarrassed this person. This is 19-year-old Michał Rogalski, the creator of a powerful database about the koravirus, from which we all started to use at some point and we realized that this is the only good, decent database. And for a reason Michał Rogalski was awarded the Ombudsman's Prize. Paweł Włodkowic. The members of the Chapter voted unanimously for it, including all the former citizens' representatives. And that's the miracle we've been watching. Why is it a miracle? Because we thought... As a spokesman, it seemed to me that I knew our society as little as anyone, because I deal with its problems in detail, I made a lot of visits, regional meetings, and I constantly conduct bilateral communication with citizens. Yet I feel surprised by this phenomenon of empathy, resistance to stress, smart behavior, even in the face of ideological wars and provocations by the rulers. And it surprised my imagination. Today, and I would particularly like to emphasise this. It is a source of great hope for a return to normality, whatever we may understand under this term. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, senators! A few words about the facts about the Ombudsman's activities. In 2020, 72.5 thousand letters and various other signals from citizens were received from the Ombudsman's office. This was an increase of 22% compared to the previous year. Almost 40,000 people called the office for information. These letters and telephones were significantly more than in 2019 and this involved epidemics and the reduction of many fundamental rights and freedoms. I am pleased that citizens have trusted the Ombudsman at this difficult time. The Ombudsman sought to respond to this trust not only through numerous individual interventions, but also through several hundred opinions, positions and speeches to the authorities, by joining 188 administrative and judicial proceedings or a dozen or so cases which I will speak about later, which have taken place and are pending before the Court of Justice of the European Union and the European Court of Human Rights. Of course, restrictions on citizens' rights and freedoms were the dominant issue in the light of the bans and orders introduced by the declaration of an epidemic. Laws, but also regulations that crossed the legal boundaries, increased the powers at the expense of citizens' rights, and that is why citizens often complained, asked about issues related to the prohibition of accumulation, movement, quarantine and isolation, especially when they returned from abroad. A lot of controversy raised issues about the issues we took with regard to them concerning, for example, interventions. No admission to forests and parks or masking orders. The obligation to wear masks was introduced at the statutory level only last autumn. Many of the questions involved a lack of clarity, often changing from day to day, or a discrepancy resulting from media communications and the actual enforcement of those rules by law enforcement services. We have often seen inequality in relation to the law, the fact that in relation to some citizens, the services work very intensively, and in relation to others they silence or pretend that they do not notice a particular problem. There have also been complaints about the operation of health inspection bodies. Many complaints concerned pandemics and violations of epidemic safety rules and standards. A large group of cases were problems related to the situation in social assistance homes and health care establishments, but we also dealt with groups excluded and discriminated against in the context of pandemics that suffered and suffered in particular. Consider, for example, access to education for children with autism. It is not possible to conduct educational activities using a computer for children with autism, it is just almost impossible. Consider, too, how those affected by the homelessness crisis felt during this difficult period when they could not even be on the street overnight because there was a lockdown. If we're talking about those who are most affected by this crisis... Many complaints concerned those deprived of liberty who, after all, have significantly limited contacts with their own family due to the closure of detention places for outsiders, not to mention the residents of social assistance homes. We have also intervened on various issues relating to the guarantee of the right to health protection, in the context of the transfer of queues to benefits, in the context of family births, the restrictions associated with this. At the end of 2020 We called for a clear and transparent vaccine programme. A number of interventions concerned issues in the education system, including, in particular, the problem of inequality of access to education and the problem of so-called. the disappearance of children from the system, the fact that the children were in school, and suddenly, when the schools started using applications, it turned out that these children are not and we do not know how to find out who should check it out, because the police are dealing with other things and there is a lack of coordination between the various authorities of the state. The outbreak of Coronavirus has also influenced a new type of case, at least in the context of the Ombudsman's office, i.e. complaints by traders on the manner and allocation of funds under State aid. I would like to make it clear here that a very important role has been played in this context and that the spokesperson of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, who, I have the impression, every day tries to be on the side of entrepreneurs. I think it was a good decision for this spokesperson to be called. When we think about pandemics, especially now that we are in April 2021, we should remember exactly what happened a year ago in April 2020. Then it was decided to organise correspondence elections, purely correspondence elections. The government has not announced the state of the natural disaster, and this has resulted in a number of different consequences of the decision-making process. The elections were to be held in correspondence on May 10th and when they did not come to an end Finally, it took place in June and July. At that time, the Ombudsman's office was literally flooded with complaints against and potential, and a concrete violation of electoral rights, because the rules of the electoral process were changed during the game. We know well that the sacred principle is that we do not change the electoral rules later than six months before the election date. Moreover, citizens were concerned that, on the basis of the bill, Poczta Polska was recommended to prepare and conduct correspondence elections. There's been an illegal transfer of voters' records. This also led to an interest of the Ombudsman, which resulted in the judgment of the Provincial Administrative Court in Warsaw, stating the unlawfulness of the President of the Council of Ministers, by a judgment which, I would like to stress, is the foundation of the principle of legalism, because it is impossible to make decisions when there is no provision which would allow this to happen, in anticipation of the fact that this footnote may someday be adopted. I would mention one more thing here, about the fact that during this period many citizens protested against this situation and were just punished for it, including a single person who stood and held a card with some postulates of protest. This has already given the police the basis for writing such a person and using pandemic laws to do so. We also remember the events under the radio trinity, the writing of the citizens who gathered there and then the conduct of proceedings by the health inspection and the recognition of these cases by the administrative courts. If we recall this period, I would also like to remind you And I know that this is an important subject for the High House. That in April and May we watched protests by entrepreneurs, protests that were extremely intensely spread by the police. At that time, the police showed various mechanisms of action which could be considered contrary to human rights standards. But, of course, our legal and political reality was not just about pandemics and elections, their consequences and this particular aspect of the violation, namely the violation of the right to health, the fact that, I think, many citizens have lost confidence in the health system, the belief that they will be protected. There were also various problems concerning groups particularly treated or discriminated against. I would like to mention here the rights of homosexual, bisexual and transgender persons, because last year was the year of discussion about the famous local resolutions against the ideology of LGBT. Last year was a year of homophobic statements by government representatives, including President Andrzej Duda, about LGBT people. Last year was the year of the constitutional authorities' undermining of the protection of the rights of those persons. All this had a fundamental impact on the debate, on the sense of security, but also on the events that took place on 7 August 2020, i.e. the detention of 48 people, the removal of these people to police stations, the scandalous treatment of these people. It is an event that will unfortunately go into this bad history of the Republic of Poland. This was all done in the context of the solidarity demonstration following Margot's arrest and the decision to be temporarily arrested in August 2020. I am glad because there are still some reasons for joy that in 4 cases the administrative courts have repealed resolutions against the ideology of LGBT. It is really, and I know this from many sources, it has been well received, not only by the environment of LGBT people, but also by the international community, who saw that maybe the courts in Poland are able to uphold normal, ordinary constitutional values, which assume that we cannot simply arbitraryly exclude someone and say that he has no right to be an equal citizen. Another problem is women's rights. During the summer we discussed There was also a debate in the Senate. On the threat or announcement of termination of the Istanbul Convention. This threat did not end well because the Prime Minister submitted an application to the Constitutional Court and this request is pending review. Who knows if one day a decision will not be taken to make this request known. But, above all, on 22 October 2020, the Constitutional Tribunal issued a judgment that tightened up the anti-abortion rules and caused massive protests throughout the country. At that time, there was a gradual increase in police response to protesters. Stopping, brutal application of direct coercion measures, closing in the so-called. boilers, moving to command outside Warsaw, so as to make it difficult to contact lawyers, legal advisers or simply hinder even ordinary solidarity demonstrations. Unfortunately, the pandemic period and pandemic-related restrictions were used to suppress freedom of peaceful assembly. I am grateful not only to my deputy, spokesperson Hanna Machinska, but also to the representatives of the National Torture Prevention Mechanism and the inhuman and degrading treatment that, in principle, during every detention which took place from 7 August to today, and even until last Sunday, those representatives of the National Torture Prevention Mechanism and your spokeswoman Machinska have often personally been at these stations and protected people, cared for their rights. This shows how important it is that the Ombudsman's office is independent. Because we're not wondering if our intervention will hurt anybody or not, whether the protestor is actually connected to the Independence March or if he's actually related to women's environments. For us, the important thing is that when it is closed and we know whether or not we can suspect that the police may not apply human rights standards, our representatives in this room can be present and can monitor the situation. And I think we've really helped a lot of people at the time, or at least saved them from any worse consequences. But it was not only the presence at the police stations, because it was also the accession of cases, especially those which took place in the context of decisions issued by the health inspection, the complaint of these decisions to administrative courts, as well as the filing of an appeal against orders issued, for example. Those people didn't have time to sue them. On 27 January 2021, the Government finally published the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. This must be remembered because women have no right from that date to decide whether or not to continue pregnancy due to incurable fetal defects. In my view, the current legal situation is contrary to international standards, in particular the case law and the interpretation of the International Covenant on Personal and Political Rights. In fact, the situation in the Mellet case against Ireland is very comparable to the Polish situation. This legal standard has been assessed and it has been found that the absence of the possibility of abortion in the situation of a fetal defect infringes the law on the prohibition of torture and inhuman and degrading treatment. This is a challenge that we will all have to face sooner or later, and our law will have to be changed in this respect. What also affected all of us in 2020 was the crisis of the rule of law. Those stages, these events, those legal acts and actions that were linked to the rule of law crisis in 2020 were really significant. There's no way to discuss them all in detail, but I might be able to signal some of the most important things here. First of all, at the beginning of 2020, the so-called. The muzzle law, which significantly reduced the possibility for judges to protest in defence of the independence of the judiciary, prevented or impeded the verification of the process of judicial nominations in terms of compliance with European Union law. On 8 April, the Court of Justice of the European Union issued a decision suspending the activities of the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court, which did not cause the Chamber to cease to function because provisions were issued which deprived the immunity and suspended the judges. I mean Judge Beata Moravec and Judge Igor Tuley. Before that, Judge Paweł Juszczyszyn was also suspended on other grounds. These people have become a symbol of what happens to the rule of law. In a Member State of the European Union, three judges were suspended for trying to be honest and act in accordance with the law. This should be a memento for all of us, we can't forget that. They can't judge even though they're honest people. We also had forced transfers of prosecutors, who from day to day had to change their place of residence and services, go from Warsaw to Śrem, from Warsaw to Lidzbark Warmiński, from Warsaw to Jarosław, from Wrocław to Kraków or from Goleniów to Kwidzyń. Let's imagine somebody saying to us one day: "Listen, today is Friday, you've been working 400 km away from Monday. I don't care if you find a place to live, what about your parents, your children, your dog, whether you're sick or not. And this is happening, and it has a fundamental impact on how the prosecution works. I would like to stress that, despite all these difficult situations for judges and prosecutors, judges in many cases have shown their strength, their moral integrity and their professionalism, giving great judgments from the point of view of human rights standards. I was talking about some of them, but I would add some here, which unfortunately have hardly been taken into account by the police at all. These are those judgments which assessed the behaviour of the police at the time of the demonstrations which concluded that detentions were unfounded, illegal, incorrect, which assessed the application of direct coercion measures. That the judges... I would say this: there are storms on them somewhere, winds blowing up the roofs of houses, and yet they sit in these palaces, in these houses of justice, and they know that they should be decent all the time. I think citizens should be grateful for that. It was also a year when the Ombudsman's Office and we were all very interested in what was going on outside our country, in the courts that we sometimes see as judgments that are foreign to us, although they are not really foreign, because they are also judgments of our citizens. I am referring to the Court of Justice of the European Union and to the European Court of Human Rights. I am pleased to be able to participate in several cases before the Court of Justice of the EU in Luxembourg in 2020 as an Ombudsman. This enabled the construction of a preliminary ruling procedure whereby the Polish courts may, in the course of the cases before them, refer questions to the Court of Justice of the European Union concerning the interpretation of Union law. If the Ombudsman is a party to the national proceedings, he shall automatically become a party to the proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg. The Ombudsman's representatives participated in disciplinary proceedings against judges. Those were Judge Tuley's cases and Judge Maciejewska's. In its judgment, the Court stated that judges cannot be punished for the content of judgments and for the exercise of their European powers. The Ombudsman also participated in the case concerning judges who questioned the impossibility of appealing against the decision of the National Judicial Council to appoint the Supreme Court. The judgment of the Court in March this year states that this exclusion is highly questionable under Polish conditions. The Ombudsman also participated in the hearings concerning Judge Żurek and Judge Frąckowiak. In these cases, not only will it be decided what impact the independence of the judge may have on the situation in which he has been nominated with a gross violation of Union law, but also on how decisions given by such a judge should be treated. Everything that is happening at the Court of Justice of the European Union, I mean not only those matters that I have mentioned but also cases that are being handled at the request of the European Commission, resulting from the Commission's infringement complaints, will affect the shape of the Polish legal reality. At least that's what I hope. I recall that after the Court of Justice of the European Union issued a famous judgment on the Dziubak State, a judgment on loans denominated in foreign currencies, we said that this is the court of our citizens. I spokesperson took part in several proceedings which aimed at interpreting different standards of abuse in consumer matters. These judgments can be of fundamental importance in terms of shaping the approach of our courts to the use, use in everyday work of standards of EU law. There are further cases in progress in which the Ombudsman participates. But 2020 was interesting for one more reason. This is also closely related to the activities of the Ombudsman. The point is that there is a second court, the European Court of Human Rights, which last Friday was mentioned in the headlines of the main newspapers. Well, it was because of the rejection of the list of Polish candidates for a judge of the European Court of Human Rights. Why am I talking about the European Court of Human Rights? Because in 2020 the tribunal decided to communicate a whole range of cases concerning Poland, several cases concerning justice, dozens of cases concerning the non-recognition of same-sex associations in Poland, as well as many individual cases concerning surveillance standards, the lack of the right to legal abortion, the treatment of people deprived of freedom or even the restriction of access to seym buildings and the guarantee of freedom of expression in this particular context. The Ombudsman, using the good practices of other authorities, other bodies of this type, but also from his previous experience as a friend of the court, amicus curiae, presented opinions to the court in Strasbourg in 15 cases. Last year it was 11 cases. One of these cases, interestingly, concerned Iceland. Someone might ask the question: what do we care about Iceland, what do we care about Icelandic standards? In this case we have also presented the opinion of a friend of the court. Why? Because this is the case of Ástráðsson v Iceland, which is fundamental to determining the relationship between the executive authority and the process of judicial nominations. And this is the case concluded by the ruling of the Grand Chamber of the Court, in which the standard was created, which will serve to evaluate Polish nomination processes. On 19 May, the hearing will take place on the case of Judge Jan Grząty against Poland. This will be the first hearing before the European Court of Human Rights for eight years. For eight years, all cases have been dealt with in writing. Now this trial will be held. I would also like to stress that together with your spokeswoman, Machinska, I had a business visit to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. We talked to President Róbert Spanó about the importance of these issues for what is happening in Poland, for the standards of the rule of law. I hope that in the coming months, the Strasbourg Tribunal will have an important role to play in discussing the different situations of human rights violations. This is important because in the case of the Court of Justice of the European Union we are usually dealing with the so-called. abstract control of standards, that is to say, we are investigating whether the regulations in question are compatible with EU law. And the European Court of Human Rights differs from the fact that it determines specific individual cases, judge Tuleya or Żurk, the case of Nicholas Pietrzak, Mr Zuchniewicz, Mrs B.B., Mr Drozd. These are specific cases of people whose rights have been violated, and we know well that there are a lot of violations of rights and that not all people are able to look forward to justice in the country. In this context, I would like to say and signal that what is ahead of us in the coming years is a powerful discussion on how to solve the problem of reducing pension rights for people who were related to the structures under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs before 1989. The Court has just signalled dozens of Polish cases concerning this issue, and probably sooner or later these cases will end so-called. a pilot sentence that will have to be comprehensively implemented and corrected by those who have been victimized. I am convinced that this will be costly for our country. But perhaps it is a good thing that we still hope in the form of the European Court of Human Rights that the Court of Justice of the European Union is also becoming more and more important to us. In 2020, the Ombudsman and the office dealt with various issues. There's no way to replace them. This annual report, as usual, is... We are really trying to write briefly and on the subject, but there really are a lot of these topics. Sometimes one day we undertake several interventions that deserve to be made public or informed by interested persons, journalists, politicians about why intervention in a given case is important. I am pleased that a few tangible successes have been achieved in 2020. I think that the improvement of the situation of the franchise and the fact that thanks to very consistent information and strategic actions, they can more effectively pursue their powers before the courts, which is largely due to the Office of the Ombudsman, due to the Consumer Forum, also to the involvement of Prof. Ewa Łętowska, who honorably advises us and helps us in these matters. I am very pleased that I was able at European, international level, but also in the country, to boast that the courts in Poland can stand on the side of LGBT people and repeal the 4 resolutions of local governments against the ideology of LGBT. In particular, I would like to stress the verdict of the Provincial Administrative Court in Gliwice, which I believe will go down in history as to the justification why using such words, that someone is against the ideology of LGBT, is a de facto attack against the rights of homosexual, bisexual and transgender persons. In September 2020, the Supreme Court, in its resolution of 7 judges, stated that in order to reduce the pension benefits of employees and PRL officials, their individual actions must be assessed and not merely belonging to the service. Therefore, the Supreme Court rejected the principle which was introduced by law on 16 December 2016, i.e. the principle of collective responsibility against which I remember it well protested, but since this issue was then linked to the adoption of the budget, there was no chance that at that time, at the legislative stage, it would be possible to improve the rules. These were also judgments... it was the judgment of the Voivodeship Administrative Court on the annulment of the decision of the Prime Minister ordering the Polish Post Office to organise correspondence elections, but also things that maybe the wider public no longer see, and for us they were important. That's for example. changes concerning housing books, still from the times of the Polish People's Republic. Well, the catalogue of activities entitled to receive the guarantee premium has been extended, which the Ombudsman has been seeking for years. That's all. Not only that, but many other things were possible thanks to the enormous involvement of my colleagues and coworkers. This was possible thanks to the fact that basically from day to day, in mid-March we managed to go to remote work, which in turn was possible thanks to the efforts of the Directorate-General of the Ombudsman's Office and a really great level of informationalization of our office. I have this, you can say, additional satisfaction that during these 5 years we have managed to create a really modern institution, not only an office that deals with the traditional rights and freedoms of the individual, that even with all the budgetary constraints that the High House is aware of, we have managed to transform and create the best office from within thanks to really great will and commitment. I would like to thank my colleagues and colleagues very warmly for this. [[Applause]] Dear Marshal! Dear Senators! Everything points out that this is my last speech as an ombudsman before the High Senate, which is why I would like to thank the Marshal, the Marshal, the entire Senate leadership and every single senator for their excellent cooperation over the past almost six years. I also thank the Senate staff, who have always met me and the Ombudsman's office with kindness and support. But when the mission's over, it doesn't mean everything's done the right thing. I hope that many of my ideas, ideas of my colleagues and co-workers will be the subject of further work in the Senate, in particular legislative work. We still have an unsolved problem of violation of rights at the National Dissocial Prevention Centre in Gostynin. We need to improve the situation with regard to the problems identified by the team of the National Torture Prevention Mechanism in police units, I have a list of 12 problems that need to be resolved legislatively, and I hope that this will be the subject of Senate work. I also submitted to the Senate a project on which I worked for many months with experts, which is called the saddle of Pegasus and which concerns the creation of a comprehensive and adapted to the conditions of the modern state of democratic regulation of supervision of special services, on any abuse that may arise in the activities of special services and which may result in a violation of the right to privacy. I have presented a number of other ideas, which are already very detailed, which are the subject of the work of the Senate Legislative Commission, and thank you very much for the fact that the Legislative Commission is taking these actions. First of all, I would like to emphasise one thing: I believe that the Senate will continue to be a place where there is room for unlimited debate, a space for debate based on the principles of pluralism, a substantive debate, but a debate which is also open to civil society organisations. It is extremely important that the Senate create such a space for civil society all the time. Of course, I do not know what decision will be issued tomorrow by the Constitutional Tribunal, whether loyalty to the State and its constitution will prevail and whether the duty to ensure continuity in the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms, or whether there may be an attempt to adapt the interpretation of the Constitution, the interpretation of the right to the political situation, as the Members of the applicant put it in a clear way. In any event, it must be borne in mind that the current political authority will want to extend its influence and to this area the activities of public institutions, which include the ombudsman's powers. Therefore, the Senate of the Republic of Poland has a special responsibility today for the future of the Polish state, for the fate of Polish citizens' rights. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, are the last instance to have a political legitimacy to defend the constitutional role of the Ombudsman. The choice of person for this position depends on whether a beautiful history of offices will continue, whose heroes over the past 30 years have been prominent spokespersons such as Prof. Ewa Łętowska, Prof. Tadeusz Zieliński, Prof. Adam Zieliński, Prof. Andrzej Zoll, Dr. Janusz Kochanowski and Prof. Irena Lipowicz. These are the people who built the authority of this office and gained the trust of the citizens. And perhaps in some ways the story of the independence of this office will end and it will join the power camp, depriving citizens of elementary protection. I firmly believe that you will be able to defend the constitutional independence of the Ombudsman's role. The constitution and civil rights haven't died while we're fighting for them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u119	Thank you very much for your comprehensive report. And I'm asking you to stay at the podium. Would any of you senators like to ask a question to the Ombudsman, Mr Adam Bodnar? The senators came to the questions. I'd like you to ask Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski a question. Senator Ujazdowski is with us, remotely? No. If he connects, he'll ask a question. Then I'll have Senator Krzysztof Breja.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u120	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, you and your entire office are amazing work. This report, point-by-point, side-by-side, shows a great deal of problems caught up by the states. This report is as much an instruction as to fix the Republic, for which, on behalf of the Senate, we thank you, we will use this material. I have one question. The preamble to the Constitution is also of a standard nature, and this preamble states that citizens have the right to a reliable and efficient state. Please summarize this year, the year of preparation of the state, administration, power for pandemics, year of lack of medical personnel, lack of trained staff serving ventilators, lack of ventilators, absence of the announced factory producing masks, breakdown of diagnostics, massive breakdown, failure to prepare health care, resulting in death not only of patients with COVID, but also of patients with other diseases: cancerous, cardiological and many, many others. Whether the country after this year was prepared and whether citizens were sure that living in the PiS state, they live in a reliable and efficient state, as should be the result And it's coming up. The Constitution?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u121	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u122	In fact, the preamble has a normative meaning, in terms of indicating and the objectives of our country's functioning, and the tasks and values that we should be guided by. Yesterday at the Constitutional Court, when answering questions, I said that we must take into account, for example, the fact that there is an obligation to guarantee citizens' rights and freedoms forever. I draw attention to these words. Forever. And if forever, then there must be an instrument for this which defends civil rights. In 2020, the Polish state had a specific stress test in terms of whether it was sufficiently operational and properly prepared to deal with such a situation, and unfortunately, I regret to say that in many cases this test failed. Probably many lives could be saved if there was greater consistency, better preparation, better investment, more respect for medical services, better coordination of efforts, greater involvement of local authorities, less centralisation. I think it will be a great challenge for us for the future is how to think about this period, verify things, check things out. I imagine if the pandemic period were over... Because now we're still, you can say, in a fight, right? Well, this is a war situation. But even the war situation does not justify various abuses and violations or, for example, the lack of consequences in action. Therefore, I think that if we get to that point where there will be space for a normal, normal, safe debate in Poland, to verify various information, all that was happening in Poland between basically the beginning of 2020 and this I'm sure you imagined it. The day in the future we are waiting for, the day that will be declared the end of the pandemic, will deserve a good committee of inquiry. But a decent one, not one that only serves some kind of daily political struggle. It is the committee of inquiry which will prepare a report with a message which will be: we draw conclusions from all errors and distortions, we settle those people who have made mistakes, because I also realize that there have been a lot of mistakes simply unintentional and difficult people who suddenly find themselves in a difficult situation, for mistakes of involuntaryly blaming And above all, we learn how to organize the Polish state in terms of guaranteeing universal access to healthcare. And in my opinion, a thorough reflection on what we have an article for. 68 constitutions and which means equal access to health care will be one of the most important challenges for every other Ombudsman, but in fact also for all of us, because it is not about the Ombudsman, it is not about one institution. This is about all political forces. The same challenge for the international community will be to rephrase the catalogue of human rights, because the right to health is in the catalogue of human rights, but just a little bit on the margins - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. And a little bit off the side. This is not a law that has as strong guarantees as freedom of assembly or freedom of speech. We should be aware that the pandemic teaches us that we need to guarantee universal compliance with the right to health protection at global level.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u123	Thank you very much. Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u124	I'm sorry, but we work in two rooms, which is why I'm late. Mr... I, too, thank you very much for this report... Besides, we will all continue to express our views in the discussion. You have just talked about health protection and the right to health care, but I want to ask you about another thread that is being taken up in the report, but it is no less important, namely the effects of pandemics and remote teaching for children and young people. It is well known that a very large proportion of young people have been excluded from the education process due to extraordinary activities and exceptional time. I am very interested in your recommendations on the activities of the office, yours and actions in the future, on this sphere and on how to avoid radical damage and how to compensate for losses. It is also a matter of redefining individual rights. How can we compensate for the losses that children and young people have suffered as a result of excluding a serious young generation from the education system? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u125	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u126	Of course, these losses are evident, because they are both about the whole second semester in 2020, as well as basically about the whole school year so far, except for a few weeks. It caused inequality in access to education and imbalance... because it turned out that depending on who we are, where we live, what schools we have access to or what IT network, this education could be better or worse. But this is not only about technological and communication issues, because there are many fantastic teachers and students who have dealt with it perfectly and perhaps the results of their work are even better than before. It's about thinking about what this whole thing looks like. The second issue is mental health problems. Every specialist, every health non-governmental organisation Mental children and young people will say that this period has simply dramatic effects on children's lives because of separation from their peers. This also applies to the issue I was talking about, the situation of children with disabilities, which have a huge problem. When you talk to the parents of children from the spectrum of autism, they say that sometimes it means withdrawal in therapy by 3, 4 years. This effort was invested in ensuring that the child could function better in the social reality, and because of the introduction of remote education it is simply a withdrawal. I would like to stress that this is not my recommendation, but I believe that this is an issue that needs to be taken seriously into account. Such voices appear in the public debate. I think it would be a good idea to organize in the Senate of the Republic of Poland. And this could be my recommendation for a debate on whether it would be appropriate to repeat the whole school year 2020/2021. I know that this could cause a lot of confusion and have a lot of consequences, but if we really want to catch up, it may have to be considered that this year took place, but it was a year that was not enough to achieve this educational equality. Perhaps a whole year for the whole year should be repeated. I encourage the Senate to debate this issue. I think there are a lot of people in the educational community who would like to talk about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u127	Thank you very much. Senator Mark Plura's question, please. It's remote.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Very good, Mr. Spokesman. In your report, you raised the issue of national and ethnic minorities, for which I am very grateful. Polish law, in my view, violates constitutional principles, enumeratively lists these minorities, although the constitution, in accordance with natural law and human law, allows each individual to determine, in his own opinion, what ethnic, national or linguistic group he belongs to. I'm the representative. people with Silesian identity, I speak Silesian language, and yet in my country I cannot fully exercise my rights and protect my identity. Although this is not in this report, I know that you have been speaking about Silesian language, Silesian identity, also Wilamowice language, to the Prime Minister. Hence my question: could you present this thread of your speech here and comment on the question of the legal treatment of Polish citizens about these ethnic, national or linguistic identities, which are not mentioned in the Minorities Act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u129	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u130	Thank you very much. This is an issue that we have already taken so comprehensively and specifically at the beginning of 2021, but of course the signals were received in 2020. What was mostly interested in 2020 was the situation of the Roma minority, because here there were the most problems. Even some progress has been made in the context of the famous settlement I'm telling the famous 'cause there were so many parliamentary delegations out there that you can't count The settlements in Maszkowice near Nowe Sącz. As far as Silesians are concerned, Polish law provides for 3 possibilities: national minority, ethnic minority and regional language. I believe that we should at least have a proper debate for the time being on the recognition of Silesian language as a regional language, which is, moreover, the recommendation of the Committee on National and Ethnic Minorities, a committee which operates at the level of the Council of Europe. And that's what the speech was about. There is one very simple argument for this, not only the question of recognition of identity and ability to practice, shaping, using Silesian as a regional language, but in my opinion there is a complete lack of logic in the fact that we have Kashubian language, which is a regional language and we do not have Silesian language. I am very happy that there is a Kashubian language, but I ask: why shouldn't the Silesians have exactly the same powers? In fact, that's what my speech was based on. We also have this particular community, a small community, namely the Wilamowice community, which also demands that we use the Wilamowice language, which, you might say, is a little bit like an old Dutch language somewhere. If we have, you can say, the jewel of our culture, a group of people who speak this language has survived, then why not create for it a regulation and not specify, to record, that this group can also use Wilamowice? Maybe this will give us a chance that this language will survive and use it for generations to come. And that's also important, because in the world we're seeing the process of dying in different languages that minority rule. The role of a modern state is to ensure the survival of languages. Of course, in the context of Silesians and Silesian language, this need is... It's not about survival, I'm sure this language will survive, it's about serious treatment of Silesians as people who want to speak regional, Silesian.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u131	Thank you very much. Senator Bogdan Klich's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u132	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! It is important to thank the Ombudsman very much not only for his work in the last year, but for all his accomplishments. He was where he was supposed to be, standing next to a man, not to an institution, acting on behalf of a citizen, not in matters of procedures, showed great knowledge, determination and personal commitment to actually having the Ombudsman's office respect in society. I think that right now, before the end of his term of office, before the end of his service, because his term of office has ended, one can say that he is one of the best spokespersons in the last 30 years. So much for what needs to be said right now. We have had the opportunity to listen to Mr Adam Bodnar's opinion in this House many times, and he has shared our view of what is happening to Polish democracy. We are aware that if tomorrow the so-called. The Constitutional Tribunal will give a ruling that the continuity of the institution created even during communist times in Poland will be interrupted in order to establish the credibility of the rulers of the Polish People's Republic in the eyes of the citizens and the world, in the end of the Polish People's Republic, when the system was already falling apart, the institution necessary for the functioning of a democratic society, this will actually mean the end of the rule of law in Poland. This will mean the final roll-up of an umbrella that is over freedoms and civil rights and which allows us to say that democracy is based on freedom. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska- Stanecka: Mr. Senator, ask me a question.]] I have never asked you the question that I want to ask you at the moment, namely how you imagine the reconstruction of a democratic rule of law after a disaster that has passed over the Polish democratic rule of law in the last six years. We, as the Civic Platform, have put forward a draft act for the renewal of democracy in our programme. This is our own project on how to rebuild democracy based on freedom in Poland. After all, we know that democracy without a legal guarantee for freedom and civil rights simply does not exist. What is your view of how democracy based on freedom should be rebuilt in Poland when this dark period in our recent history ends?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u133	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u134	Thank you very much for the question. The question is very difficult because it would require a comprehensive, long answer. We could consider such a starting point for discussing the reconstruction of a democratic rule of law. First of all, this can be analysed both at the level of a certain idea and at the level of what could be done under the political conditions. We do not know what these political conditions will look like. For example: even if there could be a space to govern the state by people who deeply believe in democratic values, in Poland's membership of the European Union, in loyalty to foreign partners, in the validity of international agreements... This does not mean that all constitutional authorities of the States will share this, which may hinder the recovery process. I'd say so. Regardless of how we think about different limitations, there are no shortcuts in this situation. Rebuilding can only take place through strict observance of constitutional rules, strict compliance with the principle of legalism, setting an example every day by all those who govern citizens. This should be based on the use of best practices within the country, because we have a great constitutional acquis, as well as requisitioning designs from other countries, depending on where these changes should be made. In this respect, I think Poland could be helpful international organisations, which have great experience. I believe that if we were in Poland at such a time that we would really have to improve the justice system, it would not be enough just to prepare and implement the law here and there. In my view, a comprehensive multi-annual programme based on cooperation with institutions such as the World Bank, the OSCE or the Council of Europe would have to be created so as to root for a reform programme in stable, international structures. I believe that this reconstruction should be based not only on the internal reconstruction of institutions, but also on showing the world that Poland is returning to those countries which advocate democratic values throughout the globe. Dear country, I recently remembered that Poland was able to promote the international preparation and adoption of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in 1989, even in these dark years. Let us now imagine that we are currently discussing that Poland promotes such international instruments. Well, that sounds almost like science fiction. After all, Poland could be an active participant in the global debate on human rights, and by engaging in it abroad, it could be more rooted in what is going on inside, in those values in which we believe and which are simply the legacy of the movement of Solidarity. But it seems to me that the most important thing for all of this is to regain the ethos of our membership of European structures, especially in the European Union, and to treat it in such a way that it is our European Union and not some external entity towards us. I have not without reason spoken of the Court of Justice of the European Union as our Court of Justice. And the second thing is to recover the ethos of service to the state. And that's probably the most important thing. Because as it is sometimes said in Poland that it is a matter of amending one law or another... Oh, no. We have to get the ethos of the judge's service back. He is and he is certainly strengthened now, in these times, by those who are brave. But does this apply to all 10,000 judges? This is the recovery of the ethos of the prosecutor's service, the ethos of the police officer, the ethos of the civil service, also the ethos of the employees of the prison service or finally the ethos of public media workers. At every level, we need to set a course, determine that we are going to make a serious determination, and complete those reforms that are not left. realized earlier. I was talking about the project to saddle Pegasus. After all, it is the great fault of the entire transition period that we have never been able to adopt any decent law that would lead to real supervision over special services. Twenty-seven years have passed, and there was no such law, despite the trials and signals that were sent earlier. As regards the prosecution, was there an attempt made in 2009, 2010, to separate the offices of the Minister of Justice and the Prosecutor General, but this did not take root, and then it came to an end. this is unfortunately for 2015 and we have a situation that we are currently observing. Whether civil service, which has already been going in the right direction, has already begun to form this corps of civil service, and now we are in a completely different place. But in order to regain this ethos, we not only have to agree that this will be done at the statutory level, that the relevant laws will be adopted, but we have to convince the people who will create these services, that they believe in this service to the State and that they will not be deceived, that they will not be put in such a situation that they will invest in some model of their career, a model of service for some years of their lives, and after a few years someone will say to them: we apologize, but now they are back in the old order. It's gonna be very difficult, maybe it's a challenge for a generation, but we have to talk about this challenge right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u135	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr Ombudsperson, Minister, I join all the congratulations that have just taken place because you have done a heroic job and you have had incredible bad luck with the predecessors that you have had to deal with the current rulers whose imagination of citizens' rights is at least not timely and inappropriate. But let's leave this side, I'd like to ask you a specific question. Mr. Ombudsman, the state institution of NIK has recently issued a document on the GetBack scandal. In this document, Minister Banasi's words sound more or less like this: "The State has completely failed the exam. Enough of that, this country's officers are dirty. That's not enough, the D.A.'s office has been doing everything it takes not to explain the situation. I know that NIK has asked the European Commission, the Director of Justice, to ask the European Commission to clarify the issue of GetBack. And why is that? When the state fails to fulfil its duty to the citizen, to the victim, Poles are left with only a scream in the European Union. I mean, where are they gonna go? It's not like Belarus. Minister, I would like to say that the current President of the Legislative Commission, who was once President of the NIK and prepared most of this report, is in line with the current President, who publicly said that the state had failed. Minister, Mr Ombudsperson, I firmly believe that the PiS scheme will not come out tomorrow at Mrs Przyłębska's, I deeply believe that you will remain, and therefore I appeal to you to be polite about this gruesome case, because it concerns several thousand very badly injured citizens. If you were to count the people who were hurt, so to speak, familyly, that would be almost 100,000 of them. That's my question for you, because I deeply believe you'll stay.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u137	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u138	Thank you very much, Senator, for the question. We are, of course, dealing with GetBack, and we continue to encourage the relevant authorities, especially the prosecutor's office, but also the Financial Supervision Commission. We're in contact with the victims. About two months ago, I was in the Senate, in the upper room, at a meeting organized by the Senate's team for victims of GetBack. We spoke with Senator Czarnobaj and Mr Kwiatkowski at the time. In fact, I agree with the fact that Krzysztof Kwiatkowski prepared the basis for the report announced later by President Banasi. It seems to me that sooner or later we will have to create a compensation mechanism for the victims, there is no other way. If we don't, it'll be one more way, very difficult and time-consuming. This is, of course, a procedure before the European Court of Human Rights and perhaps a pilot sentence in some years' time. If the Polish State does not provide legal protection, such legal opportunities also arise. Recently, my team's attention has been focused primarily... I've got one team in the office who's dealing with this sort of thing, a very small team. It is the same team that deals with pandemic-related topics, a team headed by your director, Piotr Mierzejewski. Our attention was focused on preparing emergency complaints because the deadline was 2 April. If memory serves me right, then we were preparing one speech and one very concrete one... It's about joining a specific court case that concerns GetBack. I think the interest in the office is an interest within the limits of our capabilities. I would like to stress that they are unfortunately modest in terms of staff, but we are doing everything we can. Of course, I agree with the claim that this problem will not end quickly and that he will keep coming back. Supreme Audit Chamber Report It's basically an indictment, that's what I'd call it. This is an indictment that shows that so many institutions have failed and put citizens in a difficult position. One might ask whether there would ever be a committee of inquiry which would concern this particular problem, but for people the committee of inquiry... for them it is important to have at least a partial recovery of the money, therefore the compensation mechanism due to the fault of the Polish state will simply be necessary here.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u139	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Breja's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, recent years have been a time to significantly weaken control over the activities of the services. You've mentioned that before. I would like to ask about Pegasus surveillance system, because it is based on technology, in which the actual owner of the data collected about the Polish citizens, and contrary to what the head of the CBA said, this system was purchased and used in Poland is a foreign company. And now I have this question: is it in accordance with Polish law, including constitutional law? Is Pegasus in line with the principle of legalism? He is used outside judicial control and has a much wider scope than classic operational control. Have you received any information about the possible unlawful surveillance of journalists, media workers or politicians? Finally, this question: is the application of this system in line with the directives and indications of the European Court of Human Rights and the Court of Justice of the European Union regarding the need for an independent system of control over services?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u141	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u142	Thank you very much, Senator. Well, maybe I'll answer that question a little sillyly. Well, we're dealing with Pegasus as if we're trying to... this name, this methodology, this mechanism. It's all for us, for me too, somehow particularly attractive. Well, of course, we've been analyzing the information that came from the Supreme Audit Chamber's report, which said that the funds from the Justice Fund were transferred to the Central Anti-corruption Office. Everything points to it. At least a journalist's inquiry pointed that out. The Pegasus system was purchased with these funds. I would like to say that our law, regardless of the Pegasus issue, since 2014 or 2015 is simply defective, contrary to human rights standards, to the rulings of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the case of Digital Rights Ireland or in the case of Tele2 and to the Directive on the retention of telecommunications data. Moreover, the changes in service activities, those introduced in 2016, have further aggravated this problem. The principle is that evidence that has been obtained illegally can be used in the prosecution's work. Well, this provision was not repealed, he was only challenged in some court decisions, among others. Court of Appeal in Wrocław. Moreover, in 2017, a report was produced by the Venice Commission on this subject. This happened before we even started talking about Pegasus. It's been four years. I talk about it here in the Senate every year. I also do various interventions, and I make various speeches. I turn to the Prime Minister, to the Minister of the Interior, to the Minister of Justice Which remain without any echo. There is a case before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg from the complaint by Mikołaj Pietrzak, Barbara Grabowska-Moroz, Dominika Bychawska and Wojciech Klicki, i.e. lawyers and activists who say: our laws are so vague and so inconsistent that they pose a risk of surveillance. And that's why their case was accepted. We'll probably know the Strasbourg Court's verdict this year. I think that we should not look at this only from the point of view of one technology, although of course it is. Everything points to it. It's extremely invasive. We should look at it comprehensively, holistically. On the one hand, it is necessary to clarify the rules and, on the other hand, to create a mechanism for supervising the activities of special services. Both the opinion of the Venice Commission and the proceedings that are taking place, as well as all the proposals made by the Ombudsman on these issues, should be used to correct this. But I would also stress that we have to make an appointment to fix it. Well, I'm afraid of something that even if there's a political space to make this change, it's gonna be like, no, but the service needs it, and we're not gonna change anything here. At a time when information is the most important commodity, when we deal with such mass misinformation phenomena, when information can be played and used politically, when it is possible to check and anticipate the movements of activists, politicians, activists, it is essential that the services are simply subject to control in this respect, so that we create clear rules here. Do I know examples? Recently, the Panoptykon Foundation organised a conference on this subject, attended by people such as Ryszard Petru, like Janusz Kaczmarek, former national prosecutors, like Greenpeace activists, like activists associated with other organizations who talked about different situations when they just felt they were being monitored, or when their actions were prejudiced. What's more, we discuss in times when, for example. We learn from the media that the famous activist Marta Lempart applied for a job at the ABW. And all of a sudden, the information comes out... That's it. No one is responsible for this, that she once submitted such an application. But she submitted it, based on a sense of trust in you, not the fact that this information will later be used against her. So that it is one of these elements of such a fundamental reconstruction of the Polish state and one of sins of omission for more than 20 years of Polish democracy.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u143	Thank you very much. Senator Stanisław Lamczyk's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u144	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr Spokesman, Minister, I also join your wishes, congratulations and thanks for your work. I am even more pleased that I could personally present you with the constitution you defended in the Kashubian language. And I'm very happy for you. I have a question about taking part in the judgment of a Delegated Judge as a pretext for an inappropriate court or judge's composition contrary to the rules of law. As we know, the judge has the right to exercise his jurisdiction only in the court indicated in the act of appointment by the President. The appointment of a particular court in that act shall, on the one hand, indicate the place of business, also called the seat of the judge, and, on the other hand, determine the territorial scope of his authority. As we know, there is also a Constitution on the restriction of judicial authority to the place of residence. Point (b) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: As well as with regard to the citizen, Article As we know, the current authority is currently moving judges, e.g. The judge from the district court is sending an appeal. Often materials are very difficult, and very quickly sentences appear. That is why I would like to ask your Ombudsman's position on this issue. What will happen to those judgments, those trials that are being carried out by the delegation of judges?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u145	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u146	Of course, the delegation can influence... Maybe it's different. I will start by saying that the delegation has always, for a long time, been used in the judicial system as a mechanism to promote the judge and to see if the judge can handle it in a higher court of law. So it was a sort of appreciation of the merits of the judge and giving him further responsibilities before this judge was appointed to a higher court. So, for example, some good judge of the district court at some point was given a delegation so that he could rule in a higher court, and that way he could prove himself. At a time when all this is based on criteria of professionalism, but at the same time, deep respect for the rules, that this delegation in no way affects the level of independence of this judge and are, you can say, trained within the judicial system certain rules of conduct, I would not see such a great threat to judging cases. Of course, there may be situations where someone may have passed a judgment because he wanted to make a career in quotes. But it seems to me that with the proper ethos of the judges and taking care of this ethos, the danger is minimal. The problem arises when these delegations start to resemble more certain mechanisms... when political factors simply influence these nominations, because it can simply distort the functioning of the justice system, and what's more, it can lead to a judge not only showing himself as being posted somewhere, but for example. He may be afraid that he will be cancelled from the delegation, which involves personal, financial consequences, prestige. And that's how you play things. So that it seems to me, although I do not wish to issue any general courts, that if there were to be judgments involving such delegated judges, it would be necessary to examine very carefully the impact of the executive factor on the delegation, on the career of the judge. It also seems to me that this is one of the issues that will have to be analysed, for example, in the light of the criteria in this case Ástráðdsson v Iceland, because this judgment is really fundamental in terms of determining the relationship between executive and judicial authority. Well, in order to make things right, there's got to be room at all for us to seriously discuss the justice system. For the time being, only some judicial review, including exceptional remedies to the Supreme Court, may give an opportunity for such scrutiny, but this would still be ad casum situations, not situations that would be universally applicable. Let us remind you how much the Minister of Justice is now having an impact on the seat of the Presidents of the Courts, the importance of the Presidents of the Courts for the careers of the individual Judges and the various personal decisions concerning these Judges. The National Judicial Council, well, it doesn't execute its mandate, because in 2020 she was... even lost, I don't remember whether she's already been excluded, or if she's still suspended from the European Judicial Council. These are things that were unimaginable at all five, six years ago when we were seriously discussing how to slowly reform the justice system.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u147	Thank you very much. That was the last question. Thank you very much, Mr. Spokesman, and I would like to ask you to take your seat. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u148	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! I will express the feelings of a very large group of senators, thanking you for your activities in 2020, and we do not prejudice at all that this is the end of the business. And we are fully aware that this has happened in an emergency situation, because your predecessors pointed out violations of individual rights, shortcomings of the legal system in Poland, but did not face the need to confront actions that violate the foundations of constitutional and pluralist democracy, the ownership of state institutions, and never before has the Ombudsman acted in conditions as difficult as a pandemic and its consequences for social life, for individual rights. I want to say very clearly that I consider this moment to be optimistic, not pessimistic, and I want to say that your work will not be in vain. Your work will not be in vain and please be sure that it will help rebuild constitutional and pluralist democracy in Poland, and it will serve quickly. Not only is the camp of power crumbling, but also because the monopolistic power, which is destroying the law, is deprived of its own support, because every power that lasts must respect the rules of law. The power that violates them is doomed to provisionality. Professor Roman Rybarski described this very well in a book published in the 1930s under the title "Strength and Law." This power, destroying the law, destroying the rules, deprives itself of the possibility of a long life. So please be sure that your achievements and achievements of your colleagues will serve what is a fundamental task not only of the political opposition in Poland, but, I think, of the Polish political community, i.e. reconstruction of constitutional democracy with independence of the judiciary, with independence of civil service, with respect for local government, with respect for free media. And I think that we can do this ourselves because Poland is not a backward country. We do not need special assistance from international institutions, we need participation in international circulation. We can do this ourselves. And one of the very strong foundations of this reconstruction plan will be the work of your work, this multifaceted work, because it includes not only the opposition to the violation of what I call constitutional and pluralistic democracy, but also the knowledge of how to legally react in an emergency situation. Because the current authority often fights a pandemic without legal basis, violating business rights and civil rights. But this sphere is extremely important, that is, the sphere of rebuilding a state of high quality. . and this is better than the one that was before 2015. Because we realized the weakness and low quality of many public institutions in Poland, public services in Poland, and above all health protection, education and social functions of the state. The achievements of the Ombudsman and your colleagues will be one of the sources not only of reconstruction of civilized rules, but also of building high-quality public institutions in Poland. A without high-quality public institutions I will mention those that are very important to human existence: in terms of health protection and education, it is difficult to speak about the implementation of social rights, economic rights, educational rights as much as we wish. And I think the social aspirations, especially the aspirations of the young generation, are growing. And believe me, this time when reconstruction will be possible after the destruction will come sooner than we think, and the achievements of your predecessors, your personal and your colleagues will be one of the fundamentals of recovery in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u149	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Sławomir Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u150	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Professor! Thank you for the extensive, competent and, you can say, exceptional information that confirms in the following year that you are a spokesperson for civil rights in very difficult times, at a time when the camp ruling, the government of law and justice That's what you gotta call it. In conjunction with his political background, he dismantled most of the democratic institutions of the rule of law, breaking the principles of the threefold division of power, which is in fact a guarantee of respect for human rights and the citizen in Poland, enlarging and politicising the Constitutional Tribunal, which has ceased to play its political role, politicising the prosecutors' offices, including the National Court and the Supreme Court in part. The coup against judicial independence and judicial independence completes the picture of the destruction of the foundations of the rule of law, built by the last generations of Poles, which is the dream of many generations of Poles. High Izbo! We're witnessing how it's happening in front of us. Perhaps the final act of the trial of the camp of power with democratic order in Poland, namely the liquidation of the last independent body, the last independent office, which you so professionally and dignifiedly represent, is so responsible. A ruling party with the help of its former officials, elected legally and illegally to the Constitutional Tribunal, called Julia Przyłębska's Court... I would rather talk about the Constitutional Court, which is a pillar of concern for human rights, but we know that it is not. The same Court in a manner incompatible with the Constitution And it's happening right in front of us. He wants to deprive the professor of his office by trying to subdue this last bastion of independence in Poland to the camp of power. At the same time, information appears in public space, and this coming from the mouths of the important politicians of the camp of power, that the candidate elected by the Sejm as spokesperson will perform the duties of ombudsman. This, of course, is contrary to a constitution that does not provide for an institution performing responsibilities. There is no such institution in the Polish legal order as the ombudsman. You're just... we recognize this, with full awareness of the consequences of this word. It is also some attempt to marginalize the Senate, an attempt, perhaps, to circumvent our democratically expressed will, perhaps some pressure on the Senate to submit to the proposals of the authority camp. But it's art. 209 of the Constitution clearly states that the Ombudsman appoints the Sejm with the consent of the Senate, so, if the order of law is followed, then our vote should and will count on it. The High Izbo, in this Chamber, should resound strongly, once again, the words that we have spoken when expressing our consent to the appointment of Minister Piotr Wawrzyk as spokesperson. We said that we do not have our consent to choose for such an important function, the role of the Ombudsman, the person who represents the camp of power, animates this power, supports, creates and participates in the creation of the law that destroys the democratic achievements of Poland. We will not support a candidate who directly or indirectly represents a power that violates even the principles of freedom of assembly by launching and using the entire apparatus of repression to harass and prosecute protesters during demonstrations, often called in defence of human rights. We will not support, as a majority, as a democratic majority of the Senate, candidates from a camp that limits the independence of courts and the independence of judges. After all, this leads to restricting, denying citizens the guarantee that the courts will rule on them impartially, in a completely free way from political pressure. We will not agree to an ombudsman whose political background restricts women's rights, introduces a total ban on abortion, threatens to denounce the anti-violence convention, restricts access to emergency contraception, to sexual education. We will not accept the candidacy of a representative of the authority camp, a camp that manages, governs using fear, and whose representatives often use the public language of violence, hatred, exclusion, contempt, which consequently leads to an increase in the number of attacks against national, religious, sexual orientation or political views, as was the case in the case of the dead. President Paul Adamowicz. We will not agree to a candidate who is involved in the creation of the law, supports the camp of power about this today spokesperson in his speech By creating a law that restricts citizens' rights to privacy by means of uncontrolled government surveillance, which continually extends the powers of special services, collects and processes over and above the level of personal data of citizens who, under the pretext of preventing terrorism, uses wiretapping and observation of citizens without particular control. As citizens, we are subject to universal surveillance. We're not authorized to do that. Poland, the citizens of Poland, needs a spokesperson who will definitely respond to abuse of power, any authority, in order to be clear, but especially one who, using subordinate institutions, pursues independent, inconvenient judges and prosecutors. The Ombudsman, who will have the courage to take the stand on the side of citizens, including Polish judges, and to proceed to proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights. There are such proceedings, an example is the judge Tuley or Judge Beetle. We will expect that the future Ombudsman, like Mr Adam Bodnar in this Chamber, will have the courage to proceed with such proceedings. Poland needs a spokesperson who will stand by the authorities of the State of the demonstrators, beaten by the police of women. We need an ombudsman who will intervene if citizens' constitutional rights regarding access to objective information, free speech, are threatened. He will respond to the acquisition by State Treasury companies and institutions subordinate to the government of free media. We need a spokesperson who will stand on the side of the weaker and the excluded, repressed for his views, sexual orientation, nationality, religion, for his political views. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska- Stanecka: 10 minutes, Mr. Senator.]] I'm done. Professor, I thank you once again for your responsible work, a work well served to protect civil rights and freedoms, which serves Poland well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u151	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u152	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! Art. 208 Constitution: The Ombudsman defends the freedoms and human rights of the citizen as defined in the Constitution and in other normative acts. This constitutional standard is not a complete abstraction, it is not isolated from a certain whole, as they would like to explain it now. After all, we have the caselaw of the Constitutional Court, of course, that Constitutional Court, which was constitutionally established, not that hull we are dealing with today. But besides this, we have the European Convention on Human Rights, we have the Council of Europe, we finally have the European Court of Human Rights with its judgments And all of this applies to us, just as we are governed by internal law. The axis of dispute in which you have historically gotten involved is that they try to make different, often grown-ups, lawyers tell us that there's something out there that's alien, and only what these geniuses think up on the spot is something that's valid. And I would also like to refer to... So this is the first problem I wanted to talk about. Problem: are we still, in a legal sense too, part of Europe, moving us out of this European legal order? And that's the first thing I'd like to stress. You've been an anchor for five years... one of the anchors, one of the most important anchors that kept us in the European family in terms of legal standards. Even if they were broken here, it was a man who wasn't afraid to talk about it. You have been accused of being too clear, political, but this is the role of the ombudsman. He must be the voice of the little ones who are not heard because they are stuck somewhere in the ways of inhuman law or inhuman justice. It is the voice that they are harmed by the system by blindly accepting illegal, non-constitutional regulations, actions or laws. And there's got to be someone who's not afraid, there's got to be someone who knows and who's gonna talk about it. In order not to accuse you that my thesis is for the sole use of your own person, I would like to appeal to two colleagues in law and justice here. Senators Sewerinski and Mammothov, with whom I was in the eighth term in the same committee on human rights and the rule of law, which I am currently directing. And one of the first people I met there was Irena Lipowicz's spokesperson, who, as a spokesman at the time, scored the government of the Civic Platform. And it was normal. What's more, we then The marshal was Marshal Borusewicz. We had no problem giving up this opposition committee, the PiS. And the only charge I had on you was Professor Lipowicz, a great one, that was... I said, where are you? If there are problems that you present to us at the committee's meeting, if this government in any way is embezzling anything, then you have a duty to shout and be media, as Kochanowski's spokesperson was before. Therefore, it is absurd and unworthy to accuse you of being heard by your spokesperson. Because you're here for this, and that's what this office is for, so you can hear it. Is this politics? Probably to some extent. This is politics. But everyone, to refer to such simple films, to simple understanding, we're all fans, or at least most of us. We may not like the other team. We like football, of course we want our team to win. But in order for anything to happen on this field to be normal, there has to be a judge. And that judge can't be a soccer poker judge because you can't watch it. If the player of one team brutally, contrary to the rules we all know, fouls the player of the other team, then I ask the question: do I not know about it, do I not see what happened there? We have often heard this argument here: no, the Constitutional Tribunal did not add that the one who mastered Then why are you talking about the Constitution? Well, I'm gonna use this simple example: if someone kicks someone against the rules, I'm gonna see it. And there's gotta be someone like... I used this comparison here, there's a VAR system, recently introduced to football, so you can check everything out. And the fact that there's someone outside, independent of this political arrangement, who's saying a second, because I have here recorded that it was different, is the basic guarantee that we're going to die without. Art. 2 of the Act on the Ombudsman states: "The spokesperson may be a Polish citizen distinguished by legal knowledge, professional experience and high authority due to his moral qualities and social sensitivity. This is a very dry statement, because, as I said before, there must be passion here, there must be courage and there must be commitment. The hard work I've been watching in the Senate, whether it's in the opposition or, like, right now, mostly... I saw your involvement when you came in here and reported. When you came in here and reported, it was obvious you knew what you were talking about. It wasn't like Mrs. Julia Przyłębska, who once came in, reported something three years earlier, and disappeared since then. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska- Stanecka: Mr. Senator, 10 minutes.]] I'm almost done. I just wanna say I'm not gonna use those five minutes, one minute, please. That their ruling actions, I think, though it may be upper-floor, created a giant. If your term were to come to normal times, perhaps you would end up being an anonymous man, good, better or worse. But this furious attack that we experienced earlier, on Prof. Rzepliński, on the Constitutional Tribunal, but also on you, taking money, this constant media struggle was done to you. Very high-flying I will end with one sentence of Troi, the screenplay of Iliady: If anybody ever tells my story, let them say that I walked with giants. People are born and die like grain, but certain names never die. Let them tell you that I lived in Hector's day, that I lived in Achilles's day. Thank you very much for your term of office. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u153	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Breja.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u154	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! Mr. Spokesman! I would like to thank you for your courage and for your strength to respond in these difficult times. When the government was unable to prepare health care for the pandemic in the next wave, you responded on queues in hospitals, on missing ambulances, on deaths, on a breakdown of diagnostics. You were the only office of constitutional rank to have the courage to signal it. You've been responding to a lack of oxygen, about disabling troops, about a lack of ventilators, about reschedule procedures. You've responded to the length of cases in court. You have repeatedly signaled and responded to the case of harassment of judges, prosecutors, harassment of free media, about this black and white photograph of the last few years. About police brutality. You had the courage to be with the protesters, to be on their side. You responded when one of those young girls was broken. You were reacting when the so-called ones were being harassed. Polish grandmother, taking her away every once in a while when people were taken to Warsaw. You reacted when there was abuse of direct coercion, spraying pepper spray on people's faces, including parliamentarians, the opposition. And here's what I'm gonna say: history is happening and you're gonna get to that story, you're gonna get to that story, you're gonna get to that story. Yesterday we were dealing with such a historic moment. After these many years of trying to destroy you, after this combine which destroyed you only because you had the courage, as one of the few in this rank, to serve for the Republic and for the citizens of Poland, for their sake, you stood symbolically yesterday before a sitting prosecutor of martial law. You can say that the story has come round: you are standing, and the Attorney General sits and kindly listens to you. I'd like to say that this painting is going to be history, this moment is going to be history. And I'd like to ask you not to worry about anything, because everything is going to go back to normal. Anything good. Thank you again on behalf of the Senate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u155	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Marshal Michael Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u156	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Dear Ombudsman! Once, as Churchill said, from Trieste on the Adriatic to Szczecin on the Baltic Sea, an iron curtain fell over Europe, which separated the world of freedom from the world of slavery. Ours and yours, Mr. Ombudsperson, was the time when Poland first became a battle ground against this communist totalitarianism, and later became a ground and symbol of change, a road from slavery to freedom. For me and you, Mr. Ombudsperson, the mature years unfortunately fall within the time when our homeland plays exactly the opposite role. In 2015 it became a ground for the world's fight inspired by Moscow's right-wing totalitarianism, which, as it once divided Europe, from Trieste on the Adriatic to Szczecin on the Baltic, so today divides the whole world and our entire civilisation. It divides into supporters and opponents of freedom. And again in this great world struggle Poland has become an important actor. Because it was in Poland, in 2015, that the same methods of propaganda were tested, sowing hatred, using hatred for imaginary immigrants, imaginary threats, which year later had a similar effect in the United States. The same language, the same methods from 2015 were applied, so to speak, installed Very often, in fact, by the same people who were looking for their inspiration in the Kremlin. In the United States. And this struggle between the forces of freedom and the forces of enslavement was, as I say, very evidently introduced into our circulation in 2015. And you, Mr. Spokesman, have become I'm sure it's against your intentions. A very important actor in the fight that was taking place. Because the measure of the problem Mr. Spokesman, I'm sure you wouldn't mind me saying these words. The measure of our nation's disease in Poland is that the Ombudsman's office and your person play such an important role in the public debate today. In a normal country, the Ombudsman is not in the middle of a public debate. Because in a normal country, ladies and gentlemen, civil rights do not have to be the subject of a dispute between the authorities and the citizen, they do not have to be the subject of a dispute between the various actors of the political scene. And it happened in Poland. In Poland, something that, when you started your mission, may have seemed right-wing, populist, but democratically entitled attempt to correct the system, at the end of your mission as an ombudsman, along with the alliance with Salvini in Budapest, has become a clear attempt to implement in the Most Clear Republic of Moscow patterns. And this big dispute, which today divides the whole Western world, in Poland visible as in the lens, is a dispute in which you stood on the right side. And I would like us all to understand very well that today we are talking about an ombudsman ending his mission not as opposition politicians towards the government, not as political opponents of Law and Justice. Today we are holding this debate as concerned about our freedom of citizens of the Republic. And in these disputes, which have divided Poles since 2015, Mr Adam Bodnar, as the Ombudsman of civil rights, did not stand up for the opposition against the government. He was on the side of citizens, on the side of freedom, against those who wanted to take away freedom from them. And I think, Mr Ombudsperson, that this fundamental principle of the subjectivity of our freedom in your mission is a principle that must remain in this office after you, although we hope that there will come in the Republic of Poland such times as the Ombudsman will not be at the heart of the debate, because civil rights as such will be, as should be in a normal country, a completely uncontested thing. Unfortunately, this is not the case in Poland. Of course, you can imagine today... I'm gonna get down to strict here. Ideological, in connection with which you have been accused many times. Moreover, I mentioned this at the beginning, there was a time when the Polish people experienced left-wing totalitarianism. But today in Poland there is not on the left the threat of our freedom, because it is not in the left hands that there are services, police, public television and the whole giant apparatus of repression of the Polish state, which has become in fact a tool for teaching one of the Christian denominations. And it seems that you have been very well diagnosing this danger to Polish freedom, which is the distortion of the separation of the Church from the state. The fight against this threat has nothing to do with the views on the various aspects of the teaching of the Church, one or another philosophy. And this is extremely important, Mr Ombudsperson, in the discussion about choosing your successor. Well, I wouldn't want anyone in the election of an ombudsman to be guided by the views, the views of an ombudsman. All those who supported Mr. Adam Bodnar by not agreeing with him five years ago in matters of world view can say today: we made a good choice because he was an objective spokesman who fought for our freedom. Because we don't choose the ombudsman as socialists, conservatives, liberals, whatever we call ourselves. We choose him as citizens wishing to have their freedom guaranteed. And that is why it is not important whether your successor, Mr. Ombudsman, will have or will not have any religious views. It is important whether he will respect the separation of the Church from the state, whether he will respect the Polish constitution, whether he will respect freedom, democracy and all those principles which are at the heart of what I believe is the greatest success in the history of our civilisation, the last sixty years, the time even longer, after the Second World War, or even since the founding of the European Union and even before the European Community. The West began to unite on the basis of values growing beyond the traditional argument on the left line. The right-hand side. And this project of liberal democracy after World War II proved to be a success A success for those who could participate in it immediately after 1945, and for those who, like us, were only able to participate in this great success after 1989. And that's all we see behind our windows, what we like so much. In every dimension, not only is it purely aesthetic, and this is the fundamental difference between Poland, which we remember from our youth, and today we owe precisely to the fact that Poland became part of the West, that in the West and not in the Kremlin it was looking for inspiration, excited to act. Today, Mr. Spokesman, you are completing your mission in a country where things seem obvious not to be. You are finishing your mission in a country where many citizens wonder whether it is after 1989 that the popular belief that the next generations of Poles will give their successors Poland in a better state... Because after 1989 we had this belief that no matter how things work out better or worse, we know that the next generations of Poles will live better. Today, this faith, this belief in the future, has been shaken. You, Mr Ombudsperson, maintain this faith in your mission, and your legacy as ombudsman will surely remain after you. What I can finally wish you and what I can encourage you to do is to remain an active participant in Polish public life, because you are We need it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Please take the floor of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u158	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! I'm gonna confess right away, and I can do that after a few years, and I was wondering if I could support you in this office of spokesperson. I knew we were different worldviews. I was wondering if you'd be an independent spokesman, independent of your world view. Well, after these five years, I have to say that your support and your choice was not a mistake. The fact that you were an advocate was extremely important to all of us, to the law, to the rule of law, to fundamental human rights. You stood guard of all the values that we have to defend, yes, we must defend, because they are being taken from us one by one. The institutions shall be taken and taken over by the authorities: the Constitutional Tribunal, the Supreme Court. An attempt has been made to seize the courts, which began with very little, as it seemed, things, namely the submission of the Minister of Justice to the directors of the courts, or administration. Many seemed that it was nothing, well, courts must be managed efficiently throughout the country. That was the first step. And so we watched what happens step by step. When I watch a meeting of an organ called the Constitutional Tribunal and a hearing by an ex-prosecutor of martial law, Peterovich, who is trying to get a statement that you are a ombudsman and not a spokesperson, I must say that I do not break my hands. I'm aware of the situation we're in. Of course, it's terrible that you have to leave, that this institution, very important, has its powers, which others, such as. The Senate doesn't even have the opportunity to go to court... you, ending your term of office... Perhaps: when deciding to end your term of office, many Polish citizens are deprived of the opportunity to assert their rights. It is not just that it cares about this institution, that the current authority will take over this institution, because it is clear to me that it will, but that in this way it will deprive itself of the possibility of defending the citizen who has and will have conflicts with power, and that power in contact with the citizen is much stronger than that citizen. So, Mr. Ombudsman, your role was very important. In view of what will probably happen tomorrow, the Senate will continue to uphold the rule of law and the law in Poland, it will do what it can do. Those are our obligations. Apart from the various qualities of the spokesperson, among others. Education and experience, the law also mentions having authority. You've earned that authority. You had not only those qualities that were necessary from the point of view of the institution, from the point of view of the right to take this position, but also the nature, independence and courage. This, of course, cannot be written, man must work it out internally. Thanks to you, this institution was independent and could be based on it. We could have asked you to objectively assess the next legal steps, the next laws. The Ombudsman assessed laws restricting freedom for the acquisition of the Supreme Court. Previously, he also assessed the laws concerning the Constitutional Tribunal, which in turn caused us to deal with appearances. We're dealing with an institution that's called the same name as it used to be, which works according to certain changed rules. Where independence is required, we often see kindness Not independence, but kindness towards those who are now in charge. Mr Ombudsperson, I would like to thank you for the authority you have acquired for your character and courage. I'm sure you'll still need us to work together. No matter where you operate, your knowledge and your authority will still be needed by the Senate, they will still be needed by the senators. Thank you for all this. Well, unfortunately, I have no illusions about what tomorrow's ruling will be. I have no illusions because this organ, which is called what it is, has already shown how it works. It wasn't a coincidence that the trial was adjourned ten times. Tomorrow, when the Sejm points out a member of the PiS as a candidate for a spokesperson, your term of office will not be interrupted. Yes, your term of office will be interrupted, and the justification will be this. Well, you've seen these things before. The Constitution does not provide for a situation in which the Ombudsman continues to carry out his duties after the end of his term of office. And yet we are dealing with the same situation when it comes to the President of the National Bank of Poland, when it comes to the head of IPN. The same situation also concerned several other ombudsman. So the constitution doesn't foresee it, it doesn't, but the situation requires it. There are possibilities, there was a uzus. Nor does the Constitution provide for a spokesman who is to be appointed by the Sejm only to pass the Senate to avoid the constitution, which states that the Ombudsman is elected by the Sejm with the consent of the Senate. This will probably be the result, this will be the decision of the body, whose name I do not wish to quote, because this body has nothing to do with the tribunal or the constitution. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u160	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! Mrs. Spokesman! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The deafest one who doesn't want to listen. I say this, looking at the Senate Hall, the part where all those who want to hear information about the state of compliance with human rights and human rights and the citizen in Poland should sit. It is profoundly symbolic that during the presentation of this information, the seats of the Senators of the PiS shine empty. Not one of them has been in the O.R. so far... [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is.]] We're happy for you. [[One is.]] We rejoice in this symbolic presence. Information about the Ombudsman's activities is one of the most important information that can be read in Parliament. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I ask the senators to remain calm.]] Today we know... We can say that here, in Parliament, we are already preparing for what is inevitable, what is going to be in the hands of the PiS, because we are about to say goodbye to these governments. We're all seeing it now. Now, while preparing for this period, we know one thing: in difficult days that are already passing, you have been at all times upholding civil rights and freedoms, in every situation. In a situation where a policeman broke the hand of a manifesting girl, in a situation where an official illegally closed a barber shop, without sufficient legal basis, where women were prevented from legally demonstrating their views and claiming their rights, or in a situation where minority rights were restricted. You asked for a patient's health care, for an education at the heart of which is a child, and for the needs of all those you forgot. One can say that the greatest stealing is when you try to rob someone of hope. The Lord was a guardian of the Polish and Poles during these most difficult years they were not robbed of hope. I would like to thank you very much for that. Thank you for one more thing. You are an exceptional spokesman in the context of cooperation with Parliament. I was surprised, because when I was preparing for this meeting today, I was analysing what you were writing on several hundred pages summarizing your activity as an ombudsman, and I suddenly realized that this report had to be supplemented by one more thing, by your support for Parliament, and in a special way for the Senate, in the context of what is our duty to create law. In this parliamentary term, which is only partially behind us, because it has only been a year and a half, the Senate has adopted 6 legislative initiatives thanks to your inspiration, thanks to your letters, hints, clues and recommendations. As Chairman of the Senate Legislative Commission, I would like to thank you very much for this. Projects like the one about the state compensation granted to victims of certain criminal offences... You remembered that, and you pointed out that this institution in Poland is dead. The Polish State in practice does not fulfil the obligation to compensate, despite numerous changes in this area. Proposals on the allocation of time limits and rules for the payment of these compensations have a chance to change this. The Senate project in this case is already the Seym. You have been asking not only for those who are here and now in Poland, but also for those who once, in the past, have done a lot for the Polish state. It was thanks to your inspiration that we prepared a bill on the recognition of invalid judgments handed down against those who were oppressed for activities for the independent existence of the Polish State. Because it was you who pointed out that the condition of the domicil for recognition as meaningless of these judgments, i.e. the obligation to live in Poland... that this is not a condition which should be absolutely valid. Because it is impossible to exclude those who, being Poles, no longer live in our country today. It was you who proposed to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Law on Judicial Costs, noting that the legal costs that the Polish State pays today to those who carry out the statutory obligation and put themselves on the issue... that this exposes the Polish State to ridicule, exposes this institution to ridicule, as the Polish State is not even able to reimburse costs to those on whom it imposes obligations to appear before the court. Mr. Ombudsperson, you are the one who has requested to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure, which allows, regulates the possibility of obtaining compensation for wrongful conviction, temporary arrest or detention. How often we have witnessed unfair arrests or arrests in recent years, which are later judged by the court as unfounded, without legal basis. And I also thank you for this legislative initiative, which, thanks to your inspiration, we have been able to prepare. You're even with those who are in the most tragic situation. Thank you for projecting the right to the funeral allowance of the new eligible group, namely the parents of the deceased child. How often those who have a lot of clichés on their lips about how they especially want to take care of unborn children, then parents after the tragic finals, leave tragic situations to themselves. Thank you for this legislative initiative. And also a draft amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure in the context of a change of the grounds for a victim's criminal offence indictment... How often we forget that justice is for the injured and not for ourselves. It's all these projects that we've been able to prepare and vote on here in the Senate in the last few months. But thank you, also as President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, also for the opportunity to work together for many years. Thank you for asking often for those that no one has ever asked for before. I'll remind you one thing about our work together. It was September 2017, a conference which you hosted and which, as the president of NIK, I could be a guest. The conference concerned the support of people living with Alzheimer's disease and their families. It was thanks to the activity of the Ombudsman's office and the control of NIK that we showed that in Poland Alzheimer's disease is a disease that affects not only the sick person, but also her family. A family that you leave to yourself in the most dramatic situations when you have to support a loved one at the expense of enormous sacrifices. And it's a really beautiful symbol of your term of office as ombudsman. When we talk about situations such as Alzheimer's disease, we often talk about the oldest. But you could do it, too. This is even mentioned in this report, which we were able to discuss today. To plead for those who are our future. For me, a particular part of this report is the part about psychiatry of children and young people during the pandemic. How sadly it correlates with previous NIK reports, which referred to collapse in the context of the availability of psychiatric treatment for children. As it has been said in this Chamber, sometimes it is that people leave, but some after such departure have the right to say, "I have left behind a great deal of work, I have left something that serves other people, and some people do not have the opportunity to make such summaries. You have the absolute right to hear again today from my mouth the words of thanks for this enormous activity, for years of supporting the weakest, of claiming the victims, of fighting for those who are a minority against the majority. Thank you so much for this work and this work will stay with us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u161	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Marcin Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr Ombudsperson, many words have already been said in this debate, saying thanks to you. I hope... Or else: I do not rule out that this is not your last report on your work before this House, because I rule out something else, that is, your position or your duties, by someone who will not be accepted by the Senate. You have called for the Senate to accept only someone who will guarantee that there will be a person in your position who is not from following orders from the ruling party, only to uphold the rights and freedoms of citizens and citizens. I would like to quote to you a passage from the draft resolution that we will proceed and, I hope, we will vote in your absence after this point has been completed, but I wanted to assure you that this is what will happen in the draft resolution. I hope that, despite the absence of almost half of the senators, the High Senate will adopt a resolution today which will say that the Senate of the Republic of Poland provides fellow citizens This includes you, Mr. Spokesman. In choosing Adam Bodnar's successor, he will only agree to a candidate guaranteeing office in the interests of the citizens and not of the governing party. I also hope that the High Senate will adopt a resolution in which it will clearly state that interrupting your duties as ombudsman will be an illegal act. The Ombudsman's Act, the bill that is announced in the Constitution, because, of course, your office is a constitutional office, in Article. 3 speaks absolutely clearly: the previous spokesperson I mean, in this case, sir. It shall remain in office until the new Ombudsman has taken office. Therefore, no candidates selected by the Sejm, without the consent of the Senate, can perform these duties. I want all citizens to hear it clearly. If that happens, it will be an illegal act. Finally, thirdly, I would like to quote a passage from this I'll see you later. The draft resolution, which I hope will become the will of the entire House today by a resolution: the Senate of the Republic of Poland expresses the highest respect and thanks for your work as an ombudsman. What you said in your report... You said a lot of important things, but one of them spoke very strongly to me, and I'd like to develop it. Namely, the question about the independence of your office is a question about the shape of the Polish state. Because it's either that we're building a country that depends on the political will of those who rule, everything: courts, media, special services, both chambers of parliament, etc., potentially constitutionally independent offices such as yours, or indeed these offices are independent. We either build all our citizens, or we build a party state. Or the authorities control each other and balance that is the constitutional role of your office. Or we have a single authority, so it all depends on the will of the president of the ruling party. I want to assure you absolutely and assure the citizens that the Senate will continue, even if you do not have this function, to fight for our common Republic of Poland to be a state of all citizens. And I'm convinced. Here I join Senator Ujazdowski's words That this day will come soon. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u163	Thank you very much, Senator. The next speaker is Senator Jerzy Wczyła. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Spokesman! Minister! Professor! With regard to the report you have presented today, from your work, and with all thanks and congratulations, I would like to add my thanks on those cases where you could not help. That's what happened to me, and to the people who, by my orders, appeared to you as well. However, these people have always come from you with a clue as to who and how maybe they should be helped. Very often these counsels saved their lives from serious problems, often in an existential sense. I'm not going to talk about these cases, but I'd like to share a little reflection. I've been dating the fact that you've been referred to as a minister. I just did, too, because it's a good habit, because the minister is the one who, according to the source, is supposed to serve and help. And I am very pleased that you are the first advocate of civil rights that I have personally met, and long before you began to do this job. I just met you when you were helping, serving people who needed such help, then as a volunteer. I'm glad that your service will be a reference to me for any candidate who will ever replace you. This is not only in terms of substantive qualifications, but above all in terms of personal qualifications, which are necessary for the exercise of the role of public spokesperson. And for setting this high level of expectations for the Ombudsman I stress: the public spokesperson, not those or other political parties Thank you very much, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u165	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u166	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I wasn't going to speak, but my constituents are writing to me. Even though I justified myself and said that I thanked the Minister for asking the question 'Cause they want me to thank you here from the podium, and I do it with great joy and pleasure, of course. Minister, you have raised the bar so high that I am surprised. If you leave at all That some party activist wants to take your place. Because what he's gonna have to do to eliminate all that you've done for six years. And will he be morally prepared to stand under the authority of the public and tell you why he is eliminating something for which your conscious society has been applauding you for six years, Mr. Spokesman? Standing here in front of you as Senator of Gorzow's land, I am proud to have had the opportunity and pleasure of you all these years. 'Cause I'm second term. I'm here to sit. I am particularly attached to those words that spoke of a professional. Your report is professional. I have managed human teams, and I can sense who is improvising and who really is reporting from the heart. And one more thing, Mr. Spokesman. Don't disappear, I beg you, from public life. There is a dignified place for you in our country that you will point out, and those who will rule our country in the future will certainly not leave you alone to rest there, not work hard. You're a man of work, a titan of work, a brave and wise man, and a Socialist needs such people. In fact, I want to thank you for the last time. Two autistic children's associations have asked me to do this. For the fact that you emphasized your presence and allowed the ministry to poke a little bit, which in this case slept heavily. Today I would like to thank you very much for this, because I am also 6 years old with children with autism, as long as your term of office lasts. And thank you very much. I ask the senators to give your spokesman a round of applause for supporting autistic children. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u167	Thank you very much, Senator. I joined those applause. Please take the floor of Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka. You're welcome, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u168	Dear Marshal, Dear Ombudsman, Ladies and gentlemen! The Ombudsman sounds proud. I would say 'human rights attorney' because you were a human rights spokesperson for this extremely difficult term. You have remained a man who in these difficult, very politically difficult times has become one of the last bastions of democracy of the rule of law and human rights, always at the station, at all costs willing to defend these values without calculation, how many politicians can be exposed. 'Cause really, like Art says. 5 of the Constitution, the Republic is to ensure the freedoms and rights of citizens. And we should agree 100% with what you said yesterday that citizens' rights cannot be guaranteed, and that public institutions' actions can be guaranteed reliability and efficiency when they are prevented and hindered by the functioning of the institutions that are on guard, including the institutions of the Ombudsman. Without a doubt, we are living in a time of trial today When we are attacked for our views, for our faithfulness to our ideals, but also for our worldview, for sexual orientation, for where we come from, or for standing on the side of the law, for defending the rule of law or for defending the constitution. And that applies to all social groups. And it was during this time of trial that you, exposed to unprecedented political attacks, but also personal, as we perfectly remember, was always for us and for me personally a model of peace, dignity and fidelity to the vow made. And I would like to remember about this vow made by all of us always and that Adam Bodnar was the model of fulfilling his mission, the model of service to the Polish state and citizens. I'm proud to have been able to execute my mandate at a time when you were a spokesperson for civil rights. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u169	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Would the Ombudsman, Mr Adam Bodnar, like to take the floor and comment on the senators' speeches in the debate? You're welcome, Mr. Spokesman.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u170	Dear Marshal, Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, Senators, I would like to express my gratitude on my own behalf, on behalf of the Ombudsman's Office as a whole, for all these good words about our work, our service, but at the same time I would like to say that, as I listened to you and you mentioned the various things that we had done or that we had done, I was accompanied by a feeling of deep humility, which could still be done better, or at which point it was even more necessary to shout. Because every one of those examples that you mentioned, which were very many, immediately brings us to mind in the office. Also to me, these things, these ideas, those actions that may have yet to be taken in order to take a little better care of the rights and freedoms of citizens. And at the same time, when you have this sense of responsibility towards 38 million citizens... not only citizens, all those who are under the jurisdiction of the Polish state, it is always a specific person, a specific social group, a particular individual who is either unhappy or who has not received this help, and should have received it. And it causes such a feeling of really great humility that perhaps not everything could be done. the way it should be done. But I believe that one day there will be a time when the institution, which is the Ombudsman's office, will function in such a way that it will have absolutely full possibilities. Also such purely practical, staffing actions and no one will be overlooked in this protection of civil rights and freedoms. I would like to say this because it is in this work on the one hand an eternal sense of mission, but on the other hand a feeling of guilt that not everyone can be helped as you would like to help, and that there are certain circumstances that can sometimes be independent even from the best will of the Ombudsman. However, I would like to say two more things. We talked about the various changes that took place in Poland, but we did not talk about one, namely such And I see it very clearly as a person from the non-governmental sector, from the civil society sector, as a person from the legal world, dear people, that citizens have learned much better over the past few years, much more effectively to defend their rights. This is something absolutely incomparable to the situation of 2014 or 2015, when of course we had NGOs, we had active lawyers, legal counsels, people involved... But if we imagine that we now have and have professional environmental and consumer rights organisations, and organisations that fight for the independence of the courts, if we think of the already famous Committee for the Defence of Justice, which refers to the tradition of the KOR, if we think about the Free Courts, how organizations such as the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights, the Panoptykon Foundation have strengthened, and I could exchange for so long, for so long... Organisations dealing with the rights of persons with disabilities, dealing with the rights of LGBT persons, discrimination on grounds of age, urban movements or finally street opposition, so-called. Street opposition, those who by their example, their presence, whether in Świnoujście or Cieszyn or in Warsaw... But I emphasize this Cieszyn, because it is a great courage to stand on the market in Cieszyn alone and protest. I know there were ladies in Świnoujście yesterday who stood and showed solidarity to the Ombudsman. This is absolutely amazing. We see only those moments when there are these breakthrough moments, like July 2017, chanting behind the wall Senator, you still can, like protests before the Presidential Palace, the Supreme Court and many others, of course, Strajk Women and protests, gigantic demonstrations after the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal... But since citizens have learned to take care of their rights and fight for them and perhaps the Ombudsman has helped them to do so and has also shown them his example of how to do it, now our great responsibility should be to strengthen them and protect them, to ensure that they can carry out their own individual mission, whether they are activists, activists or lawyers, or simply those who are in their body, their presence in public space, show what it is to fight for the most important values. It is also a fight for local journalists, a fight for those who at local level account for power, because they have much harder than anyone else. And I think that this is the care for civil society widely understood, these areas of pluralism, which we still have in some places in Poland. It is the responsibility of each of us in this Chamber, but it is also my responsibility. And to answer these questions or comments, I will say that I, of course, still feel responsible for taking care of these values and that these constitutional values should be realized. In this context, I would like to say that in 2016, when they were already, these important changes have already taken place concerning the Constitutional Tribunal and it has already been quite obvious, in which direction the changes are going, that it is not just a matter of exchanging several judges and not swearing in those who have been legally appointed, there have already been moments of non-publication of judgments, there have been changes in public media, in the prosecutor's office, in the civil service, I remember that I received the honour, visited me in the office on the street. Longer Prof. Karol Modzelewski, Karol Modzelewski. I had never imagined that I would have the privilege of associating with a person who meant so much to Polish history, who already in 1965 decided to fight with Jack Curon for freedom, and then in a sense continued the mission and strengthened the democratic opposition movement. I remember that Professor Karol Modzelewski then, in 2016, talked about 2 things, talked about all the changes that took place in Poland, and said that it was not such a revolution that he agreed that it should be a revolution based on freedom, equality and brotherhood, and that this brotherhood was lacking. And that was an important message for me to emphasize the need to protect the so-called. Social rights during my mission, do not forget not to focus only on the things that have been in the current, I would say, the order of the public debate, but just look where the citizens of this protection of social rights need. And no one expected that the pandemic period would prove so deeply to us how important this protection of social rights is for our democracy. Professor Karol Modzelewski then used the phrase "police state," said that it was all moving towards the police state. Some people had some doubts about it: what kind of police state, what's going on? However, if we look at the events of the last year, when regulations, ambiguous rules, over-introductions, are used to restrict citizens in their rights, we will see how right Professor Modzelewski was. Before this meeting, Professor Modzelewski had already noticed my efforts, he saw my attempt to fight for the Constitutional Tribunal, also for an independent prosecutor's office, and I applied to the Court for independent public media, there was even a proposal which ended on 13 December 2016 with a good result, only that later he was completely ignored by the authorities. Prof. Karol Modzelewski like such a great spiritual general said: now you are a front soldier. I would like to say, Professor, wherever the Professor is, I report the performance of the civil rights defence task on the section of the Ombudsman's mission. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u171	Thank you very much to the Ombudsman, Adam Bodnar, for presenting the information. Mr Ombudsperson, this formal and polite formula, which every Vice-Marshal would have to read at this point, is, I think, something much bigger than just a polite formula. I, on behalf of all the senators here present, Mr. Spokesman, for your work... [[Applause]] ...and for your defense of our freedom, thank you very, very much. [[Applause]] I note that the Senate took note of the Ombudsman's activities and of the state of compliance with human and citizen freedoms and rights in 2020. Thank you very much. Dear Senators! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! As announced, we will now proceed with the examination of the ninth paragraph, this will be the second reading of the draft resolution expressing appreciation for the Ombudsman, Adam Bodnar. Once this item has been considered, a vote will be taken on the matter. Then we will consider point six, i.e. Act amending the Social Assistance Act. After this punt is over, we will vote on this bill. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution expressing appreciation for the Ombudsman Adam Bodnar. Let me remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators. The project is included in print No 364 and the report is published in print No 364 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Ewa Matecka, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u172	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Allow me to address the Ombudsman again. Dear Ombudsman, do me the honour of signing your report on your work for 2020. [[Voice from the room: That's what he's doing.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report to the Legislative Commission on a draft resolution expressing appreciation for the Ombudsman, Adam Bodnar, in print No 364. On 13 April 2021, the Senate Marshal sent a draft resolution to the Legislative Commission expressing his appreciation for the Ombudsman, Adam Bodnar, for consideration at first reading. At its meeting on 14 April 2021, the Commission considered, at first reading, the draft resolution submitted by the applicants, amended it and requested the adoption by the Senate of the attached draft resolution. During the debate on the draft resolution, a proposal was presented to reject the draft resolution in its entirety. This claim was rejected. The amendments tabled during the debate concerned the introduction into the text of the draft resolution of provisions equivalent to those contained in the Constitution. High Izbo, I will now read the draft resolution of the Senate of the Republic expressing appreciation for the Ombudsman Adam Bodnar. The Senate of the Republic of Poland expresses the highest respect and thanks to Mr Adam Bodnar for his work as Ombudsman. Mr Adam Bodnar stood and upholds the rights and freedoms of man and citizen and democratic standards. The Senate of the Republic of Poland strongly opposes the attempts to remove Mr Adam Bodnar from his duties before his successor is elected. It is against the law and already established national tradition. The removal of the Ombudsman before choosing his successor would deprive the citizens of basic support from the Constitutional Office. The Senate of the Republic of Poland assures its fellow citizens that when choosing Adam Bodnar's successor, he will only agree to a candidate guaranteeing office in the interests of the citizens, not of the governing party. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u173	Thank you very much, Senator rapporteur. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Alexander Pociej. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. I'm telling you no one signed up for this. I also inform you that Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska gave a speech to the minutes. The discussion is closed. Dismissed until 6:30 p.m. [[Voice from the Chamber: What about the vote?]] And then there will be a vote. [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 50 to 18 minutes 31]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, please take your seats. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm also asking you to stop socializing, so to speak. I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution expressing appreciation for the Ombudsman Adam Bodnar. We proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the senators is in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Thank you very much. Please state the results of the vote. 53 Senators voted, 51 for, 2 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 5]] [[Applause]] I state that the Senate has adopted a draft resolution. [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Tomasz Grodzki]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u174	Mr. Marshal, you're welcome. We're gonna hand these bookshelves over together. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz is also welcome. We'd invite everyone, but there's no room. I cannot refuse to comment that the lack of vote by the ruling party shows little respect for civil rights, and in fact its complete absence. This calls for serious comment. The day you honored us with your presence ends. It was a great honor for us to be able to Listen to your report. You will allow the spokesperson that, after all, I will wish you good luck and trust that things can happen by tomorrow. We will pass on the text of this resolution, as well as the modest medal of the Senate. He's purely honorable, but believe me, you have to earn it well to get it. Congratulations. [[Everybody up.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u175	I take this as an expression of appreciation not only for my work, but also for the work of the entire office, the entire management. I'm very happy to have Dr. Hanna Machinska with me. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Applause]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u176	Thank you very much to all the ladies and gentlemen of the senators. Thank you again to the Ombudsman. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Social Assistance Act. [[Talking in the O.R.]] The text of the Act is contained in print No 348 and the report of the Commission In print No 348 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Richard Majer, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And your senators present in this courtroom, please remain calm and calm. You're welcome. Let's wait for the senator. We had breaks, so it's perfectly understandable. I ask the senator to report. And please be quiet.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a report on the meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the law adopted by the Sejm on 17 March 2021 amending the Law on Social Assistance. This regulation, expected, ladies and gentlemen, has long taken into account both the interests of people who are recipients of the social assistance system, as well as the interests of those working in the field of social policy, through their professionalisation. The Act provides for inter alia. clarification of the definition of income, i.e. to reduce revenue by the cost of obtaining it; to change the validity of the income criteria verified every 3 years; to change the upper limit of the amount of the interim allowance for a single economy person, which is fixed by quota, to the extent of the difference between the income criterion of the single economy person and its income but not more than PLN 418 per month. The amendment assumes that the upper limit of the benefit may not exceed the amount of the income criterion per person in the family. The Act also introduces the possibility of providing care services or specialised care services as a matter of urgency, justified by a sudden change in the condition of the person for whom these services will be provided. This is a very important regulation because it accelerates and applies a certain ad hoc introduction of these services. The amendment also provides for the abolition of the obligation to pay for services provided on a daily basis in support centres for people with mental disorders, as well as for the joint referral of spouses or parents with an adult child to the same social assistance home, even if they are eligible for different types of facilities. It follows, Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, among others. from the signals of social assistance, about the fact that often two people require that they be sent to the welfare home, and because we have help homes in different categories, they have gone to different individuals; here we keep the possibility of them being in one unit. We modify the requirements for the qualification of carers in certain institutions Homeless shelters, in shelters for homeless people with care services, in hostels with preference for the experience gained in the practice of providing work with the persons for whom these facilities are intended. We modify the obligations of the operator of the 24-hour care facility for people with disabilities. Finally, there are changes relating to the right to pursue the profession of social worker and the working conditions in this profession, as well as the degrees of promotion and evaluation. For a long time, ladies and gentlemen, there was an expected change in the allowance for social work in the field. This supplement, I will remind you, was PLN 250 for many years, and now it is raised to PLN 400 per month. This is of course a change, one can say, a small, but very important, for social workers who are standing, often in a little noticeable way, on the front line of the fight against COVID, especially where we are dealing with caring issues. Finally, this law consumes, Dear State, the subject of one of our initiatives, which we have taken as Senate, namely the possibility of directing people to a family social assistance home in the neighboring community. The Senate's intention was to introduce this possibility. So far, the family social services house... Of course, this is a rather niche situation, because we have thirty-seven family homes on a national scale. Only people from the municipality in which this family-run aid house was located could be directed there. At the moment, the legislator changes this and gives the opportunity for a person to be directed also to the neighbouring community, which, as it were, increases the possibilities for these houses to function. We hope that this will help to increase the number of these facilities, which are very desirable centres in the social assistance system. One of the most important issues, Dear State, is that monetary penalties have been increased: for failure to carry out post-control orders, it will be from PLN 500 to PLN 12 000, so far it has been PLN 200.600 respectively; for running a 24-hour care facility without permission. Here penalties were raised to PLN 10,000 and PLN 20,000, and in the case of facilities for over 20 persons to PLN 30,000; for running operations by the institution after the decision to impose a penalty of PLN 40,000 to PLN 60,000. Proposals for amendments were tabled at the committee meeting. After discussion, the Commission accepted all these amendments and asks the High Senate to include them in the vote. The discussion was attended by inter alia. President Senator Libicki and Madam President Senator Kochan. The conclusions which emerged during the committee meeting were discussed with the Minister of Sweden, which some of these proposals were considered appropriate. Since they do not fall within the scope of the Act, they may be a pretext for further further reflections on amendments to the Law on Social Assistance. I ask the High House to adopt the law together with the amendments proposed by the High Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u178	I thank the rapporteur very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Please, Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski, who will ask a question from room 217. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u179	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, there's one thing I'd like to say and ask you. Mr Marshal's announcement of a possible vote on the bill today, as soon as this debate is over, did not appear before this point. I know that the bill was voted out in the Sejm on March 17th, so we have a de facto two or three days to vote. I would like to hear from the rapporteur where this urgency comes from, from where the vote previously announced and whether it will actually take place today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u180	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u181	This urgency arises directly from the request of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, which the Ministry addressed to the Senate Marshal. It's based on the contents of this bill. We have here changes that actually come into force at the end of this month. If we adopt this today, there is a chance that the Sejm will accept or reject our amendments at an ongoing sitting.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u182	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u183	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! [[Also remotely. You're welcome, Senator.]] I have a question. During the discussion, did the amount of money that local governments would have to spend? 'Cause I read it. Unless the senator corrects it. The government estimates that the cost of amending the proposed draft Social Assistance Act is more than PLN 1 billion in a 10-year perspective. The vast majority of the costs will be expenses... The larger expenditure for this purpose will be borne by local government units, about PLN 600 million, and the state budget will be paid by the amount of PLN 410 million. Is that really the case? Can you give me the amount of all the calculated expenses that the government and the government will have to bear? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u184	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards the main amounts which bring with them amendments to the Act, they result from an increase in expenditure on social workers from PLN 250 to PLN 400 per month. It is a pot that is paid by the local government, but comes from government subsidies. So that these costs, when it comes to increasing the salaries of social workers for work in the field from PLN 250 to PLN 400, will be borne by the government and will be passed on to the local government, as is the case at the moment in the case of an additional PLN 250 per month for each social worker working in the field. That was the discussion at the committee meeting, so you told the Minister of Sweden. As far as the other amounts that arise from this law are concerned, I think that the Minister will also answer these questions here.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u186	Thank you very much, Senator. No further questions. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. I state that the bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family and Social Policy has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Minister, you're welcome. Please, Minister Stanisław Szwed, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development... I apologize to the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. I'm sorry. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Already without work.]] Sorry, I read it this time... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: The work is no longer available.]] Then we inform the appropriate services that the resort is called otherwise. I apologize to the Minister for his entirely unintended desecration.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u187	But here this work was very good, so that here I do not object to this name... Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Thank you very much for your report on the committee by Senator Majer. The senator has presented the content and proposals for change. These are very important changes to the Social Assistance Act, because they touch several categories. Mr. Senator talked about it, but it is still worth recalling, because this change is actually expected especially by the social workers who sought it. Here, some of the solutions apply to social workers, among others. increase the extra for field work from PLN 250 to PLN 400. I'll explain immediately the financial issues that were raised. The financial cost per year is PLN 46 million. This is of course the task of the municipality itself, but this supplement is financed by the state budget, i.e. here the local government will not bear any additional costs, it is refunded from the state budget. I think this is an important change, too, especially for those who work in the field. That's an addition that's worth remembering. There is also a question of employees, among others. The working life of social workers has been reduced from 5 years to 3 years, on which an additional 10-day leave depends. Also, the scope has been changed in terms of promotional paths. I think these solutions are well received. Requirements for qualifications have also been loosened in the case of individuals dealing with homeless persons. In the case of cash benefits, solutions have also been introduced Mr. Senator explained it here, too, but I'll remind you. As regards the flexibility of the maximum amount of the periodic allowance, which according to the Act is now at the level of PLN 418. We want to introduce an old mechanism used for verification, i.e. the amount of the periodic allowance would be verified for the amount of the income criterion. It would now amount to PLN 528. And here I am immediately explaining that in terms of resources and growth in the case of the state budget, it is 6 million PLN and also these funds come from the state budget. Another important change, which is also related to finance, is giving up payment for the use of daily services in environmental self-help homes. This payment was not high, but it repeatedly caused that some people did not benefit from such support. Here the cost is at the level of PLN 5 million, which means that the revenue of the state budget will decrease as far as this issue is concerned. In fact, it is also worth reminding once again that in this law we have also implemented a resolution of the Senate concerning the provision of services within the family home, as regards entities operating in the area of the municipality adjacent to the municipality. During the committee meeting, we had quite a long discussion about the functioning of family help homes. They actually don't work the way we want them today. We have agreed with Mr Libicki and with the senators, as well as earlier, at the session of the Sejm Committee, that this subject must be given a separate meeting, a discussion, so that we can look for better solutions, and that we can activate the possibility of creating family help homes, because it is a good solution, but today it is not fully used. Hence, the great role of the local government here, so that together, we can try to find a better solution when it comes to family help homes. An important solution is also what we have introduced. And there were also quite often demands in this case. As regards the joint referral of family members to one DPS, e.g. spouses with an adult child or at all spouses, if they do not have the same disease, but may be referred to the same DPS. This is also, I think, a good postulate that we are implementing under this law. There are also issues related to the clarification of income, and there was also a question related to penalties, so we have done a gradation of penalties. This was also due to these covid experiences, because we met with the fact that there were situations that such individuals were run without permission. That's why we set the maximum penalty as 60 thousand zlotys, we also addicted penalties to the size of individuals. So much for the whole bill. We want this law to enter into force as soon as possible, because one of the amendments we have proposed is a change concerning the Social Assistance Act, which introduced a new scope of qualifications for social assistance workers. This solution, this change of qualification was to take place at the end of May this year. Due to COVID, the situation has definitely changed, so we propose that this deadline be postponed by 2 years. Therefore, this request to the High Senate that we try to adopt these laws even this month so that this can be achieved, i.e. to shift the possibility of improving qualifications, changing qualifications in the case of round-the-clock units and daily accommodation units, so that we do not have any problems in this regard that due to COVID it could not be fully fulfilled. And that's how you shift those dates. There was also a request from social assistance units to make such a change, and therefore the committee adopted this proposal at its meeting. I think the High Senate will also accept this proposal. The amendments tabled by Senator Majer were positive. We also addressed other issues at the committee meeting and even if we did not support some solutions, we committed ourselves to further work, although not in the framework of this law. But even with family help homes, we can develop new solutions at this time that will improve the situation and work effectively to help the weakest. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u188	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, this is a very positive initiative and amendment. I'd like to ask... Because in the explanatory memorandum I found such information that among these many positive changes will be among others. introducing the possibility of implementing the Minister's programme in cooperation with the voivodships. And I'd like to ask you what exactly the programs are about here, in this change.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u190	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u191	These programs, which we carry out as part of social assistance, are also used by these voivodship offices, which carry out on an ongoing basis... Now, e.g. We had the best experience with the functioning of social assistance homes, where we provided additional funds through the departments of social assistance of the voivodship offices to support the operation of social assistance houses, but also other activities that we have undertaken, such as support related to COVID, additional funds, whether they are disinfectants or additional masks... All this was also coordinated by the regional offices, in cooperation with our ministry. So that it also works on this, among other things. It was. And here are the programs that we're doing, if that's what we're doing. Homelessness program, which is also evaluated by the voivodship offices... These programs are a little bit, if necessary, and we will give you additional information in writing to the senator. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u192	Thank you very much. The question is Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u193	Minister, I'll repeat the question I asked you earlier to the senator. Is the overall cost of project changes estimated on a yearly basis or at least 10 years? And will you confirm that or deny it? According to my information, the cost of the proposed amendments to the Social Assistance Act is estimated by the government at about PLN 1 billion in a perspective of 10 years from the entry into force of the changes. The vast majority of the costs will be on the expenditure side, with greater expenditure for this purpose being borne by local government units, about PLN 600 million and the state budget PLN 400 million. So these changes are cool, they're all waiting for them. Just so it's clear who's gonna pay for it first. Second question. Minister, do you think... Or else. After how many years this amount is raised from PLN 250 to PLN 400? And do you think that for people who do hard work sometimes serving a few dozen or a few hundred people a day, often with difficult families, this is a satisfactory raise? And there's my last question. Is it possible for local governments to receive money on an ongoing basis when it comes to raising this amount from PLN 250 to PLN 400? Because according to my knowledge, local governments get this compensation, so let's call it, or this money at the end of the year. They need their money... they need to find that money in their budget. Is it possible for the government to keep this money up to date, not once, at the end of the year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u194	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u195	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! From the data we have, which are also included in the OSR, it appears that the cost for local government units resulting from this law is PLN 12 million per year. So in 10 years it would be 120 million zlotys. Here, too, are the tasks that are the tasks of the self-government. And here there are no extra costs for the local government. As we show the whole range in 10 years, it is clear that this amount will actually amount to about PLN 1 billion. Because if we say 46 million zlotys a year is the increase in this supplement... In 10 years, he's taller. The issue of verification of income criteria is every 3 years, etc. Therefore, these additional costs are incurred, which are reimbursed from the State budget. As for the question of the transfer of funds, I will answer the senator in writing. I don't think that's how it works, but I'll check. I can't tell you how these funds are being transferred right now. I know there's a motion for other programs that goes either through the voivodships or... We are addressing the Minister of Finance and these funds are being paid on an ongoing basis in the case of programmes that are being implemented even now during this period. But that's a specific question I'm going to answer in writing to the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u196	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Michał Seweryński. [[I didn't get the name.]] Please? [[I didn't get the name.]] Senator Michael Sewerinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u197	Thank you very much. Minister, I would like to ask if there will be more money for the operation of foster families after this law enters into force.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u198	In the law itself there are no additional resources saved in this respect, there is only a greater possibility to create... But as I have already announced here, we want to have a separate debate in this area in terms of family help homes, at the level of Parliament, the Sejm and the Senate, in order to find a better solution, more effective. Today we have few units that have been appointed by local governments. The question is, why do so few of these individuals arise? You have to find other, better instruments to encourage local governments to create family help homes, because it's a good idea. That should be effective. I think that, in the context of state policy, the creation of smaller units, more focused on local structures, family homes are good practice. As I say, we do not have such solutions proposed in this bill, but we want to go back to that. In the context of a separate law or maybe in the context of amendments to this law concerning precisely this issue. At the session of the Parliamentary and Senate committees, I presented this situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u199	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, at the moment there is no rigid amount, maximum periodic allowance This amount may not be higher than the income criterion per person in the family. How much longer can this maximum amount increase?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u201	How much less? [[Increase, increase.]] We plan that this amount will be at the level of PLN 528 and it will be subject to verification. The first verification will be from 1 January 2022. Because this law also changes the deadline, it has always been carried out on 1 October. We also do so at the request of local authorities, which indicated that budgets... that it is not entirely possible to prepare for these criteria. So that today we are starting work on determining the income criterion, which will also be derived from the poverty indicators. We have until May 15th, we will present a proposal to the Social Dialogue Council, and then by the end of July or August... by the end of July we will present a proposal to the Council of Ministers. ♪ And then it's gonna be ♪ normal procedure. At the moment, I am unable to answer the level of the new income criterion for the next period.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u202	If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal... And how much is it right now in the case of a single person?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u203	701 zł. [[So that's a pretty big increase because there were 400 with pennies...]] And in the 534 family... it's going to be elevated, but right now I'm not able to answer, unless, because we haven't done that yet. These amounts will be derived from indicators that the CSO will publish on poverty. And on the basis of these indicators, we will propose an increase in the income criterion for other welfare benefits. There's more because it's going to include both single parents, families with three or four children... This will apply, in accordance with this amendment of the Act, from 1 January, and for the next 3 years, as is now every 3 years, will be the verification of the income criterion.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u204	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u205	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask a more general question. Since 2016, when the Law and Justice Government has put in place programmes such as 500+, a good start and many other positive programmes, we have seen a significant drop in the number of people in the social assistance system. How did the number of people receiving social assistance directly decrease compared to 2016? If you don't have that kind of information right now, I'm going to ask for a written reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u206	Mr. Senator, we're gonna work on income criteria... The 500+ family programme has had a major impact on the reduction in the number of social assistance recipients. This is evident when it comes to the use of periodic benefits or permanent allowances. We can see there's an inheritance here. I'm not gonna give you an exact percentage right now, whether it's 25% or 30%, but within these limits, this drop is. And so are the other programs. I mentioned the 500+ family program. The increase in spending on family policy has led to a much smaller number of social assistance recipients. Also e.g. in the case of a school children's feeding programme or a home meal programme, there are fewer people who benefit from it, because in some cases there are also income criteria and they make fewer people benefit from social assistance. In this respect, there is a clear decrease in the number of people who benefit from social assistance.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u207	Thank you very much, Minister, that was the last question. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Thank you very much.]] I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to a question asked by Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, the Senators of Sweden, Chybicka, Świlski, Gromko, Błecherz, Godyla, Łuczak, Gorgon-Komor and Durlak have made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would also like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Wojciech Necessary. The discussion is closed. As announced, we will proceed to the vote after the break. I'm about to announce a recess for the committee meeting. As legislative proposals have been tabled, I ask the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy... [[Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, it's just a question from room 217, whether you have come to the marshal's attention that Mr. Senator Necessary has tabled amendments to the bill, and the senators Ryszard Świlski and Mariusz Gromko have made their speeches in the discussion.]] Yes, yes, I mentioned just a moment ago the speeches made to the minutes and the legislative proposal of Senator Wojciech Necessary. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. The vote on this issue will be held after the adjournment. Message.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u208	The meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the examination of applications submitted at the 23rd Senate meeting to the Act amending the Law on the Suspension of Sale of Property of the Agricultural Treasury and on the amendment of certain laws will take place today 10 minutes after the announcement of the break in room 182. [[Voice from the Chamber: When is the vote?]] [[Voice from the room: Today.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u209	I'm declaring a recess until 7:00 p.m.... [[Excuse me, Mr Marshal, and the meeting of the Family, Senior and Social Policy Committee on the submission of amendments will not be convened?]] There is not yet a communication, but he will surely come to committee members as soon as the committee decides where and when to meet. [[Thank you very much.]] We're adjourned until 7:55 p.m. [[Adjournment from 19 minutes 08 to 20 minutes 02]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u210	We are returning to the examination of item six of the agenda... I will, of course, resume the session. And we are back to discussing item six of the agenda: the law on the amendment of the Social Assistance Act. A meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy took place during the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 348 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Richard Majer, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u211	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy from the meeting that we have just held. The Commission, at its meeting on 14 April 2021, considered the proposals made during the debate of 14 April 2021 on the Law amending the Social Assistance Act and presented the following position to the High Senate: The High Senate should accept the conclusions set out in points 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 9 and 10. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u212	Thank you. Do you, Senator rapporteur... excuse me, Senator Wojciech Necessary still wants to speak? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Necessary? No. Good. We therefore proceed to the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendments 1, 6 and 10 will be voted together. They aim to extend the existing qualification and employment standards in specific 24-hour care facilities created before 1 January 2020. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? The results of the vote, please. For 89 senators 86 was in favor, 3 was against. [[Voting No 6]] The amendments have been accepted. Amendment 2 introduces the possibility of an urgent decision to provide shelter for homeless people with care services if there has been a sudden deterioration of the homeless's health. Who's in favor? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm gonna need the results. 90 senators voted, 50 for, 38 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 7]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 3 seeks to extend the catalogue of organisations which may conclude an agreement with the municipality on the running of a family help home. Who's in favor? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm gonna need the results. [[Talking in the O.R.]] No results? [[Voice from the room: Request results.]] I'm gonna need the results. Yeah, I told you. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm gonna need the results. For 89 senators, 48 were in favour, 38 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 8]] The amendment was accepted. Amendments 4 and 9 aim to regulate the minimum scope of postgraduate studies for social workers in the Regulation. Who's in favor? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm asking for the results... I'm gonna need the results. [[Voice from the room: Remotes do not confirm.]] Oh, remotes don't confirm. Yes? [[Voice from the room: One didn't confirm...]] That's what I'm talking about. See if you've all confirmed remotely. Yes? Okay. The 88 senators were 85 for, 1 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 9]] The amendments have been accepted. Amendment 5 aims to ensure that the salary allowance for social workers working outside the unit is valued. Who's in favor? Who's against it? Who's holding back? They're still remote. I'm asking for the results... I'm gonna need the results. At 87 senators, 9 were in favour, 39 against, 39 abstentions. [[Voting No 10]] The amendment was accepted... [[Voice from the room: No, no.]] No, she was rejected, of course. The amendment was rejected. Amendment 7 aims to extend the period during which the first interim evaluation of social workers is carried out. Who's in favor? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm gonna need the results. The 89 Senators 3 were in favour, 84 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 11]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 8 introduces the correct drafting of the transitional provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm gonna need the results. For 89 votes, 88 votes, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 12]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm gonna need the results. 89 senators voted in favour. [[Voting No 13]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Social Assistance Act. We begin to consider item 11 of the agenda: information for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period of July December 2020 (German Presidency of the Council of the European Union). The text of the information is contained in print No 318. He addressed the information received to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. At its meeting on 18 March 2021, the Commission examined the information and informed the Senate Marshal. I would like to welcome the European Union Minister, Mr Konrad Szymański, present at the meeting. I ask the Minister to speak and present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u213	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present once again information on Poland's policy during the next Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Of course, the German Presidency between July and December 2020 was another Presidency dominated by pandemic-related issues, both in terms of purely health, epidemics and no less important issues related to the health of the European economy, which brings about this crisis which has hit us as a result of a pandemic, i.e. certain social and political consequences of course. To start with issues directly related to pandemic policy, I would like to draw attention to the fact that Poland has expressed its support for far-reaching attempts to coordinate Member States' policies on restrictions in the area of passenger traffic. Of course, we all understand that these are the competences of the Member States. We also understand that Member States have often been in very different situations and have therefore taken different actions with different intensity. However, from the point of view of maintaining the coherence of the common market and reducing losses in the common market, in particular after the first wave experience in March and April, it was clear that such coordination of, at least, minimum standards in this area, refraining from measures which could disproportionately affect the liquidity of the common market, both in terms of passenger traffic and in particular of freight traffic, was the right decision. Poland, of course, supported the European Union's financial commitment, directly to the European Union's budget, to speed up research on vaccine. This had a definite, concrete effect. We also supported the simplification of procedures for the admission of vaccines to the European market. We also believed that decisions on joint purchases and joint negotiations with major companies that came forward as ready for the production of these vaccines are relevant decisions. On the other hand, we have maintained a decisively critical relationship with regard to the implementation of this plan. The finale itself in the form of a failure by at least some vaccine groups for certain amounts, which directly affected the distribution of vaccines between Member States and which directly adversely affected the implementation of very ambitious vaccination plans, as was the case. also in the case of Poland, it was a serious problem. This problem has also triggered a very lively discussion at the level of the Council of the European Union. Only today do we receive positive signals in the form of a clear acceleration, at least a perspective, of delivering the right amount of vaccines to the Member States, which in many cases, although I do not know whether in any particular case, but in many cases, as in the case of Poland, were ready to carry out vaccinations much, much earlier. The only narrow throat, the only problem was the ineffective distribution of at least some vaccines contracted at Union level. An important element of this discussion... I think that all topics outside the subject of the COVID have escaped the attention of the public, but it is worth mentioning them now. An important element was the new opening of the debate on the Migration and Asylum Pact. We all remember that this is a discussion, a problem that has been with us for almost five years. The Commission's new proposals, which have been presented with a very long delay, because this dispute has lasted far too long, respond much more positively to the expectations of countries such as Poland. They are focused on the protection of the external borders, which is what we have been saying since the beginning, a key dimension of effective migration policy. They focus on cooperation with third countries, cooperation also based on conditionality in the field of return policy. We have a very long list of Member States that have a lively political relationship with the countries of transit or migration, and I mean the countries of origin and transit of migrants, very often weak or not at all fulfilling their commitments to counter irregular migration, which should change. We are in favour, of course, of increasing political cooperation, each and every type of cooperation, including development with these countries, but I have pointed out that there must simply be added a specific conditionality in the area of migration policy, which remains a very important problem for the European Union. Of course, we support the principle of solidarity in this respect, we understand that the external border, like the border on Bug, for which Poland is responsible, as well as other sections, often more difficult sections of the external border, are the external borders of the whole Union and should not be regarded as an area of responsibility only for one country or another. However, we note that solidarity between all Member States should be based on the principle of flexibility in order to eliminate any possibility of introducing any form of forced migration or asylum. I think we are close to agreement on this, but this matter needs to be discussed further, because it is still not so clear. I think that the most complete presentation of the Polish position was also the list of 7 Member States, not only the Visegrad Group, but also Slovenia, Estonia, Latvia, December 2020, where we comprehensively presented the vision of a common European migration and asylum policy. Of course, the finalization also deserves attention. The successful completion and implementation of the agreement with the United Kingdom on new relations, in particular trade, economic, although not only. You remember that the exit agreement, which we had negotiated many years earlier 100% at international level, effectively secured the rights of Poles and the rights of all citizens of the Member States of the European Union acquired in the UK. These people should not feel any loss, even in retail cases, any loss in terms of the extent to which their rights are protected. However, it remained open how we would build new relationships that would create a framework for trade not only in goods but also in services. This case was, as it turned out, even harder than the first one. This caused the agreement to be concluded at the very last minute. This is an exceptional situation when trade negotiations have a specific moment at which they must end. They couldn't be run until December 31st, then some kind of agreement had to come into force. The failure of these negotiations would mean that trade relations between the European Union and the United Kingdom would become WTO-based relations, which in the case of a country so integrated, also with the Polish economy We have a positive trade balance with Great Britain and in goods, and in services, in increasingly complex services and goods, so it is also quite vital for us... This kind of decline in trade relations would certainly be the failure of the European Union as a whole. We've managed to avoid it. And, of course, it should be noted with satisfaction that we have a trade agreement that assumes zero duties, zero quotas. However, we must bear in mind that the United Kingdom is becoming a country which is outside the customs union and outside the common market, which has defined, of course, negative consequences for trade relations, for the ease of business, the sale of services and goods in the United Kingdom. Nevertheless, given this perspective too, the agreement itself must be considered a success. From a Polish point of view, there were many important things in these negotiations. One of the more important ones which Poland defended mainly was the availability of both road and air transport. In this respect, we managed to negotiate relations which paradoxically could mean that the UK market for Polish carriers would be more open than the European one, given the negative developments we are seeing in Europe as regards the rules in the transport market, in particular road transport. Another element I would like to point out is to agree on a new climate target of 55% by 2030. for the whole of the European Union. It was one of the most difficult elements of the negotiations. They lasted much longer than the entire Presidency, over a year. We agreed... we were able to find a common opinion, an agreement on this matter only because of a common agreement that climate change must be based on principles of maintaining the competitiveness of the economy, a fair sharing of the burdens of climate policy, taking into account national circumstances, different starting points, referring to the role of gas as an important fuel in economic transformation and solving the problem which is most concrete for Poland in the whole discussion, i.e. the problem of imbalances in the permit market under the ETS, which is an imbalance that causes us to receive fewer permits than the Polish economy expects. This problem will be resolved through the agreement we had in December. The European Commission is currently working on solutions to provide Poland with more permits in this European basket, more CO2 emissions, which, when we take into account the prices of these permits, will of course generate values counted in billions of euros for the Polish economy. The additional arrangements of the European Council will require the question of everything that is going on outside the ETS, i.e. transport or construction. Poland, of course, supported, as always, all activities in the area of the common market. We have pointed out that the common market, in addition to direct transfers, which will be at the end, plays an absolutely crucial role in Europe's response to the pandemic economic crisis. This single market builds the resilience of the economies of the European Union, it is the common market that adds vitality to the European economy, and in the context of the crisis it should not only be protected, but it should also be developed. We note that the resilience of the single market should mean the Europeanisation of production, particularly in those areas where we have felt shortcomings, we have felt some weaknesses, and I am referring in particular to the pharmaceutical strategy. Poland was among six Member States, together with Denmark, France, Spain, Belgium and Germany, which pointed out that we cannot, with all confidence in the openness of the economy and the openness of global trade, afford this degree of dependence in such areas, closely linked to epidemic issues, for which we must also be prepared in the future. Not only today in the context of this crisis that we have, but in the face of potential future crises. We note that the state of enforcement in the area of the Community market is unsatisfactory, it is simply bad. We note that very little is happening. Despite the political declarations, very little is happening in the area of removing barriers on the Community market. And these barriers are very often hitting the freedom of economic development, including Central Europe, which has shown its very high competitiveness over the past 15 years in many areas. It's not just a question of transport. The last point I would like to point out is, of course, the budget. The budget needs to be looked at. not only from the direct response to the covid crisis, the pandemic crisis, but also as the main development policy in the European Union. In order to sum up as briefly as possible what was happening between July and December, very many things were happening, very visible, which focused the attention of the public, including the Senate, I will say that Poland belongs to the main beneficiaries, the main winners of these negotiations. We belong, I think, to the three countries that benefit from the budget and the EU's reconstruction fund most. We are the only large Member State of the European Union that benefits not only from the budget itself but also from the EU Reconstruction Fund. In other cases it is either one or the other of these instruments. In the case of Poland and one, and the other, the instrument brings benefits and benefits measured in the simplest possible ways. We pay much less to the budget than we get. That's about 1:4. In the case of the EU Reconstruction Fund, this relationship will probably not be that high, but it will be so high, it will obviously be profitable for the Polish economy. And the crisis that we had in December, the crisis concerning the closure of the entire budget package, was not linked to the values of the budget itself, was linked to the persistent ambiguities, the ambiguity of the provisions of the regulation, which should not really be controversial. Regulations intended solely to protect the European Union budget against mismanagement, fraud, embezzlement, corruption, etc. This was not the case because of the European Commission's unfortunate idea of adding elements that we believe were too general, referring to too general concepts. And that's why this process had to last longer. The ambiguity of the provisions of the Regulation, which in the final stages supported the 25 Member States, referred primarily to the rules for the use of the instruments provided for by the European Union budget protection regulation. The key guarantees in this respect mean that the mere finding of a breach of the rule of law, even if that is a finding by an EU institution, does not give rise to the implementation of the said Regulation. The 11 principles set out, the rules for the application of this Regulation, notes that a causal link must be shown between possible State deficiencies and the negative effects on the Union budget. That's a lot, of course, to take into account the fact that he doesn't go here. only for the conclusions of the European Council. At the same time, in line with the agreed plan, although autonomously, the European Commission itself committed itself to the fact that the written rules will apply in practice the use of this Regulation. Let us remember that the European Commission is the only institution which is empowered by this regulation to induce this regulation to use the solutions provided for in this Regulation. We have also obtained an official analysis of the Council's legal services, which confirm that the solutions applied are in line with the Regulation and the Treaty itself, so we are not afraid that the solutions adopted in December could be touched by anyone, for example. by a complaint to the Court of Justice of the European Union, which has been announced for many months by the European Parliament. Parliament has finally withdrawn from this plan. I believe that he carefully read what was set up and agreed that the solutions adopted there were not in any way in breach of the Treaties. The ambiguity of this regulation, of course, remained, and Poland therefore decided to verify the compatibility of these ambiguity, so I would say... From a legal point of view, I think it is reprehensible that we write the law in such a way that it is not unambiguous, it is not clear enough. We have therefore decided to check this in the Court of Justice of the European Union for compliance with the Treaties. The principle of legal certainty, i.e. predictability of the rule of law, is one of the main dimensions of the rule of law, which is supposedly the case here. I think it's very important. It is also important that before the end of the year it was possible to find a solution that would be acceptable for all, not only for all Member States, including Poland and Hungary, but also for other institutions, at least for the European Commission, and Let us say that it is more silent for the European Parliament. To conclude, this second part of 2020 was extremely abundant in decisions of great importance. Sometimes this was due to the calendar, as in the case of the multiannual financial framework or the agreement with the United Kingdom, and it could not be achieved at any other time, but this does not change the fact that it was busy months and that most of these processes, which were important from a Polish point of view, were successful. And in this sense it was a good time not only for Germany as a Presidency, but also for Poland as a Member State. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u214	Thank you, Minister. Stay on the stand, or there'll be questions in a minute. [[European Union Minister Konrad Szymański: Sure. I'll answer from here.]] Would any of your senators like to ask you questions about this information? You're asking Senator Brejza a question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would be grateful for such a short, synthetic answer to the question of whose initiative and why the draft ratification law on the Fund for Reconstruction has recently fallen off the agenda of the Council of Ministers. And what majority, according to the Sejm, should the Senate adopt such a bill? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u216	The matter of order of the Council of Ministers is certainly not about the information I am reporting here, so there is no reason for me to comment on it. The order of business of the Council of Ministers shall be determined in accordance with the rules laid down in the Rules of Procedure. This case was no exception here. [[But this subject is also directly connected...]] Well, if we use the rule here that we can talk about topics that are, however, related to this information that has several hundred pages, then we could talk about basically anything. However, I would point out that this matter is not related to information, so I can only say that the agenda of the Council of Ministers is determined in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers. And that's all there is to it. As for ratification, Until now, all decisions on own resources have been ratified. We are talking here about a decision on our own resources, not about the budget, not about the Fund for Reconstruction, but about the basis of the financing of the European Union, which is an international agreement that is not from the order of European Union law, but from the order of international law. Poland is 16 years old in the Union. So far, we have had the opportunity to ratify decisions on our own resources several times and each time this was done on the basis of an article. 89 constitutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u217	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, two questions. One thing is... It is a simple question: what have we actually challenged the TSUE, what legislation we have challenged, and when, possibly, do we expect a settlement, the TSUE's rulings in this regard? The second question is running a little bit, I'd say, temporarily, but it's bound to... This is the decision of the German Constitutional Tribunal. What did this tribunal really decide? Is this a preventive measure, or is this a final judgment? What's the next scenario? What could happen? How does that even affect the ratification process?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u219	Poland has decided to bring an action against the Court of Justice of the European Union regulation on the protection of the budget, etc., this title is much longer. It is, of course, about compliance with the Treaty, about the legal basis, the way in which the regulation is adopted, and thus the scope of the regulation. This was done essentially to clarify the ambiguity of the wording of the regulation in such a way as to anchor the regulation in the thinking that we represented from the very beginning in a discussion that lasted two years. These arguments sounded from Poland and Hungary for 2 years dozens of times. We reiterated the same arguments in the complaint to the Court of Justice. As for the case that is pending before the German Constitutional Court, of course no one knows what the scenario is. A lot of people are asking themselves that question today. What can be said with certainty is that the tribunal has decided, as part of a safeguard measure, to ask the President of Germany to refrain from signing the act by the Bundestag and the Bundesrat ratifying the European Union's own funds. The president did it, of course, and he abstained from signing the bill. The doubts raised by the complainants relate to whether the own resources decision does not give rise to long-term financial commitments by Germany vis-à-vis the budget of the European Union in such a way as to go beyond the legitimacy of a single vote in this particular term. In short, the point is that the consequences go beyond this term of office. In fact, the consequences of any own resources decision go beyond the term of office of the Sejm, the Bundestag or any other Sejm, because in most cases, if not in all Member States of the European Union, the term of office of Parliament lasts 4 years, and each decision of own resources always applies for 7 years. In this case, this decision concerns an even longer perspective, so the doubts go further. This is quite similar to the complaint that was dealt with in the case of the European stabilisation mechanism, which was intended to counter It has done its job to address the consequences of the crisis in the euro area. The consequence of that ruling, where, as I say, the arguments used in the complaint were very similar... The consequence of that complaint was a ruling which said that each time a more secure role of the German Parliament was necessary. This ruling did not undermine the stability mechanism itself, nor did it call into question the role of Germany in this mechanism and the far-reaching guarantees that Germany had to sign for this mechanism to be launched but significantly strengthened the role of the Bundestag. I think here, in this case, we can expect a similar situation. The Court will not address so much any requests in relation to the rest of the Union, e.g. blocking the adoption of the budget, as much as it would point to the commitments made by each German Government in relation to the Bundestag in relation to this part of the German Constitution, which stresses the issue of democratic legitimacy. This is, of course, a case of abuse, I allow myself to have personal reflections, because we are in an unknown situation. The Court can, of course, do anything, but I expect that the ruling will be quite similar to the ruling of 2010 in the case of the EMN. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u220	You're welcome. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u221	Maybe it's not as much a follow-up as a detail. There was information on the grounds of the complaint, but there was also information that the justification was not attached to the ruling of the Court. Is the justification for the ruling of the tribunal known yet? [[Minister for European Union Affairs Konrad Szymański: Is it a German tribunal?]] Yeah, yeah. We talk about German all the time. As I say, it's like it's going on for a while, but I'm sure it's connected to... Second thing. Can this mean that each country will guarantee its own debts and not share this debt, which is sort of discussed?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u222	So far, we have no ruling on this matter, only a safeguard decision was taken, which was a safeguard measure in the form of a suspension with a signature, which the tribunal could expect at any time, because after a vote in the Bundestag, the President does not have any obstacles to signing it quickly. We don't know what the tribunal... For the time being, the Tribunal has not issued any more extensive communication as to what it thinks of this case. I think that the issue of communion of debt also requires comment, because there are actually a lot of misunderstandings about this word. The word "counciliation" comes from 2008 or 2009, when the eurozone crisis was discussed. That's when the idea of communityizing debt came into being. This was a problematic concept, especially for those countries which, due to the strength of their economies, would guarantee much more than they themselves need. These countries would have a negative balance sheet, a negative balance in terms of their budgetary position. All the richest countries in the North, but also Germany, are in this situation. This is also the reason why this matter is so vital in Germany. We are in a comfortable situation because we have no doubt that we will receive more from both instruments than we will deposit. In the case of Germany, of course, the opposite is true. The Germans will pay significantly more, if I remember correctly, this is probably EUR 280 billion than they will receive. Of course, they will also benefit. It is quite obvious, quite clear to any sensible policy in Germany. Germany will benefit enormously from the Community market, and this is, say, a good investment. No one is going to be lost here, but as far as the budgetary situation is concerned, this raises reasonable doubts among many politicians who ask why it is so constructed that Germany pays so much to the common budget and they take so little. Well, it's not a zero-sum game, it should never be seen this way. This should be seen in a broader context, precisely in the context of the benefits of the Community market. In this context, this picture looks different. In fact, we all benefit from it. After all, Poland also has a very positive balance of benefits in terms of what results from the Community market for our economy. However, speaking of communion in the context of this decision that we now have ahead of us is, I think, an example of the wrong use of the word. At the time, we were talking about a potential situation where debts incurred by Member States, in particular those of the southern euro area, in some part would be guaranteed by other countries. Today there is no such prospect, because debts incurred by anyone in the past will remain where they are. No one's taking any responsibility for them. Instead, we decide to guarantee together a certain and limited loan, because it was supposed to be a larger loan to the European Commission acting on behalf of the Union. We agree on how this money will be distributed among Member States. The Communityity of this movement is merely that we guarantee as Member States, because the Union itself does not have such power that the whole operation is completely safe. It's kind of obvious. This must be a completely safe operation, because it is difficult to imagine the situation in which the Member States of the European Union are failing. If this did not happen in 2008, when this perspective was really thought about in the case of some smaller countries in the South, it is all the more so today that it is purely theoretical, purely hypothetical. This simply cannot happen, because if it did, the costs of this operation would be incomparably higher, not just for us, but for the euro area as a whole. Costs Not only political but also economic plaits of one or the other southern country... Well, I don't want to stigmatize anyone. I think it would be very awkward to point the finger at one country or another, to name them. The costs of insolvency of one of the southern states that are suspected of doing so would be incomparably higher than what we are talking about here today. It would be a hurricane for the euro area as a whole. This would be the cost, above all, for those countries that are in the euro area and are rich. I think that while we are in a situation of a country that does not have these problems, because it is outside the euro area, we are the last country to be concerned about the fact that sometime there might be a situation in which debt will be impossible to repay. Before there was a situation like this, one way or another... Because it's embedded in this mechanism. The European Commission is committed to looking for other solutions to avoid a solution that would mean that someone will pay their debts. This is an absolutely hypothetical, theoretical perspective.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u223	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u224	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, the report provides such information that, during the German Presidency, work has been completed on the establishment of a horizontal sanctioning regime for human rights violations. I would like to ask you to bring forward the issue of European Union sanctions, especially in the context of this situation in Belarus, but also in Russia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u225	Yes, we have been able to agree on a common sanction mechanism that is being used today in relation to Russia. These are mainly personal sanctions against specific persons. In the case of Belarus, we have exactly the same mechanism. The European Union has a clear principle of dealing with such events, this time in relation to Belarus. This is the definition of a list of people who have limited opportunities to operate in the European Union. It's connected to it. This sanctioning regime is used successfully.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u226	Thank you very much. That was the last question. Thank you very much, Minister... Oh, I'm sorry. Senator Sekuła reporting. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u227	Minister, I would ask you to interpret a passage of your speech. The first statement was: there was an inappropriate distribution of vaccines within the Union. The second statement, the information you quoted, was about supporting the idea of solidarity in migration matters, but the principle of flexibility proposed by you... I read it in such a way that this flexibility will be appropriate when this idea of solidarity will not apply to us. Tell me if I got it right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u228	No, not at all. Poland has never expressed its desire to be free from the principle of solidarity provided in the area of the migration and asylum crisis. Since the beginning of this crisis, Poland has been very active in foreign missions in the area of border protection, and in many countries, far away from Poland. We want to maintain this ability. We are also involved in humanitarian activities that have recently been carried out towards Greece, closely in the migration area. We're willing to develop it. This has nothing to do with avoiding the obligation of solidarity. We see this problem as a European problem, but we note that individual Member States can have different capacities, different willingness to use different solidarity mechanisms. E.g. Countries that do not have an external border most often do not have a developed border guard. They are not able to send border guards or other forces to protect the border, because unlike Poland they do not have them. On the other hand, there are countries that have a very broad, deeply established tradition of active migration policies in one area or another, e.g. Middle East or North Africa, so they have ease in relocating asylum seekers or migrants. There are also countries, such as Poland, which have no traditions of maintaining any migration relationships with this part of the world, and therefore there is no reason to force this kind of process. That is the flexibility that we can show solidarity and support to countries in need in different ways. And this concerns not only Poland. This applies to any Member State which would consider that in a specific situation, in a particular case, it would like to show solidarity by other means, in no case symbolic. Polish aid is already crucial in the areas of the Western Balkans and Greece, where a few years ago there was a very intense illegal migration movement. As for the wrong distribution, I meant the delay. in relation to contracts. At the time, six contracts were signed by the European Union. Some of them were not implemented, which caused us to have a very serious problem on the side of the Member States. Member States assumed that the signed contracts were in force and that there would be certain amounts of vaccine within a certain period of time. It didn't happen, it was very difficult to enforce it. Poland was one of the countries that certainly demanded it the loudest, paying attention to the fact that we should not only keep political pressure, but also show that we have instruments of influence or pressure of a much more serious nature. I am referring to the mechanism for authorising the export of vaccines. This mechanism was adopted with strong support from Poland. I am also referring to opening a discussion on the public licence. These are instruments. At least pressure, if not more. Like I said, today... [[But, Minister, that's not what I meant. I meant explaining the wording you used...]] That's what I meant. [[I know that Poland is taking excellent action, but I meant explaining the wrong distribution within the Union.]] That's what I'm explaining... [[This statement sounds as if the Member States have divided these vaccines in a different way than they originally intended.]] No, no. Let me explain. Speaking of wrong... [[In a word, it was a slip of the tongue. That's enough for me.]] No, no. Distribution was inappropriate because many countries, including Poland, received the wrong amount of vaccines for which we agreed, so it was wrong distribution. Rule... [[But did the others receive as much as they were contracted, or did they all have less?]] Different... It depends on the contract profile, because at the time it was 6 contracts with different amounts. Without going into detail, I'm going to say that when I said wrong distribution, I meant delays in relation to the contracted amounts at a certain time.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u229	Thank you very much. That was the last question. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u230	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, the Minister is right to say that the previous acceptance of the decision on the European Union's own resources did not require the application of Article. 90 constitutions, but the previous decisions were not the same as this decision. However, for the first time, this decision introduces the joint and several liability of all the Member States of the European Union for loans entered into by the Fund for Reconstruction. It's a serious commitment to be clear. The opposition I represent is in favour of such a solution, because it will also be the cheapest loans that can be obtained on the market, and this type of joint and several responsibility is in the interests of our country. But this requires the use of so-called. large ratification under Article. 90 of our constitutions, so to obtain a majority of 2/3 of the votes in the Seym and in the Senate. And as far as constitutionalists are concerned, there is no doubt that such a procedure should be applied. But that's by the way, in addition to the answer that the Minister wanted to give to Senator Breyza's question. I wanted to talk about two things. I wanted to say what really took place in December of the previous year in the European Union, which we have all witnessed, where the opposition called for us not to throw the authority of our country on the line, demanding that the so-called regulation should be diluted under threat. Conditionality. After all, in July last year we already knew that both with regard to the funds from the Fund for Reconstruction and with regard to the even greater, much larger funds from the 7-year financial perspective, we managed to get what the Minister said. We have managed to obtain large resources for the country under the multiannual financial framework, such measures that will allow to continue structural projects in Poland, thanks to which Poland will develop and which, I hope, will continue to make this contribution of the European Union to the Polish gross national product at around 1.5% Just like it's been in the last few years. So Poland will be in a better financial position thanks to such large funds, but also because Poland under the Fund for Reconstruction is, if I remember correctly, the fifth country in terms of the amount of funds from this fund coming from. But we already knew that in July 2020, so it was incomprehensible at the beginning. As long as you haven't unveiled your cards. The threat of veto. This unveiling of the cards has shown that you are really concerned about this combination, the combination of solvency of resources and the principle of compliance, despite the fact that we are members of the Union, which is in Article. 2 has clearly entered the values on which it is based, including among others. rule of law or, if any, rule of law. So this unveiling of real intentions showed that the government of the Republic of Poland, which you represent, put or placed on the balance of our authority veto to obtain for itself: for myself and for your people The type of exemption from liability in the event of any misuse of the funds resulting from it. And today you confirmed it. We knew earlier that both the complaint lodged by the Hungarian Government and the complaint lodged by the Polish Government to the Court of Justice of the European Union was only the next step in the same direction. This showed what were the real intentions of this great turmoil, which was passed through our country and through the European Union, and in which Poland and Hungary played a blocking or potentially blocking role in both the multiannual financial framework and the Fund for Reconstruction. However, I would also like to talk about a second point which was not included in the Minister's statement, because it could not be found in it either. And that's absolutely not a question. About what you said. Only because indeed the work on the Conference on the future of Europe during the previous German Presidency was slowed down. And it is worth mentioning this, because the previous Presidency, the Croatian Presidency, has launched the subject, and the current Presidency, the Portuguese Presidency, has successfully taken up the subject. And we are happy that this conference is about to begin. Thus, the Conference on the Future of Europe is just beginning, thanks to the agreement between the European Parliament, the Council and the European Commission, these work could be launched. And we have very high hopes for this conference, Minister, today the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union has been leaning on this. Namely, we have hopes that through this conference we will be able to bring the European Union closer to citizens, we will be able to link citizens more closely to the European Union, and any doubts as to whether the European Union is democratic or not is indeed a democratic organisation, whether it is pursuing the interests of the citizens of the Member States of the European Union, will be resolved. We very much hope that the Polish Government will do everything to make it easier for citizens, to make it easier for associations, to make it easier for academic bodies, and finally to make it easier for all possible environments. Economics, employers, employees, professionals, doctors, teachers, youth, environmental environments, and I could mention many more Attendance at this conference. On April 19th, a digital platform will be launched. I'm marking it from here, so that we all remember this date. In which citizens will be able to comment on the functioning of the European Union and on how it should work in the future. This is a very important moment. And on 9 May, this conference will be formally launched. Therefore, these 2 dates constitute such a specific technical one and the other a political one. The moment to launch the most important discussion on the future of the European Union that will take place on our continent in the coming year, if you believe in these declarations that the conference should last about a year. I would like to express once again the hope that the Government of Law and Justice will do everything in its power to enable citizens to participate actively in this undertaking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u231	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senators of Gorgon-Komor and the Swedish have made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. Would the Minister like to comment further on the Senator's statement? [[Minister for European Union Affairs Konrad Szymański: Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u232	As for ratification, I would like to say that, contrary to what to some surprise I hear from the politicians of the Confederation and the Civic Platform, I do not see any reason to believe that ratification of this own resources decision, which is before us, should be carried out in accordance with the rules of the Article. 90. Contrary to appearances, no new competences are transferred to the European Union on this occasion. The European Union enjoys the powers conferred on it by the Treaty of Lisbon in 2008, and this Treaty has been ratified on the basis of Article. 90 constitutions, quite rightly. However, now, both in terms of own resources and in terms of the recovery instrument, we are dealing only with the exercise of the powers already conferred. So there's no reason to think about it that way. There would be grounds, if it were to turn out, only here there are no reasons for that, for example. with regard to the adoption of an own resource based on unprocessed plastic Because there are decisions of this kind among many decisions from this summit Member States lose their competence to impose such danins. It would then be a transfer of competence, and then the question could at least be asked whether the relationship between a Member State and the Union does not sometimes change. In this case, It's not. A commonly called plastic tax instrument is not in fact a tax, it is only a method of calculating part of the tribute to the European Union budget, which does not mean that any entrepreneur will have to pay anything to the Union budget. Under no circumstances does it mean that the competences of the Member States, including Poland, are being reduced to any extent for this reason. It's just a danin calculation mechanism, that's all. The decision on the European Union's own resources has always defined the margin of payments which Member States accept for the European Union. In this case, it's exactly the same, with one exception. And that's the specifics of this decision. Once, for a limited period, we decide to increase this payment ceiling by 0.6 of the European Union's gross national income. That's the only difference. Of 1,4% up to 2% GNI of the European Union. I do not see any grounds for building a hypothesis of some massive change in the relationship between a Member State and the European Union, which could lead to the start of the ratification procedure under Article. 90 constitutions. I remember the tone that the opposition politicians adopted in December when there was actually such a prospect that perhaps the December summit would not be successful, that we might be forced to block the budget decision-making process. I think that we all remember this tone, often it was a hysterical tone, expressing that we can't even think that this is a major crime in the European Union to think of the budget in such a way as to think about the veto of the budget. I think there is no policy of opposition that would not create a specific suppliche, often of a very dramatic nature in this matter. ♪ We're gonna ♪ we have done, we have taken into account such a scenario, because of this and not otherwise understood the interest of the country, because we believe that building instruments that are unpredictable, uncertain, which do not guarantee legal certainty, is not good for any country, even if it is done under the very noble slogans of the rule of law. In a sense, legal certainty is the main dimension of the rule of law. This isn't about fear of the rule of law. This is about fear of political freedom, action on political demand, political order. Here's the problem. At that time, you were arguing, and today, as I think, the problem is much narrower, i.e. in view of the internal parliamentary and party game, in view of the opposition's party strategies, the State proposes to veto the budget of the European Union. I would suggest rethinking this attitude or explaining why the budget of the European Union is good today, and it was not good in December. [[No one is proposing to veto the EU budget, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-14-senat-23-1.u233	Thank you, Minister. I thank Mr Konrad Szymanski, European Union Minister for Information. I state that the Senate took note of information for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period of July December 2020 (German Presidency of the Council of the European Union). I'm calling for a recess by 10:00 tomorrow. [[Adjournment at the sitting at 21 minutes 06]]
