ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u1	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Last week, at a secret meeting of the Sejm, there was an unsubstantiated over-secretion. Therefore, on the basis of the Classified Information Act, art. 9, we demand that the transcript of this meeting be revealed so that all citizens can hear and see, read the gibberish that we had the opportunity to hear last week. [[Applause]] In addition, I request a break and, after this break, full disclosure of Prime Minister Morawiecki's e-mail incident, information on whether the ABW initiated a security clearance check by Minister Dworczyk. You all know this is a scandal that paralyzes the functioning of the state... [[Sit down.]] ...that the dispatchers of these e-mails will be... [[Sit down, sit down.]] ...to terrorize the government's work every day with more information from your private e-mails. There's no other way but to resign. [[Applause]] people involved in this affair. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And besides everything, call off Minister Kaminski today, and you'll stop being afraid. use... Thank you very much, sir. ...from the gov.pl domain and you will be able to... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u2	I would like to inform you... I would like to inform you, sir, that there is no legal basis for declassified proceedings. There is no legal basis for declassifying the proceedings, sir. Thank you. [[Voice from the room: Art. The 9th Secret Information Act...]] This does not concern this request for secrecy, sir. [[So we can't declassify, but on the Internet they can declassify?]] Read your constitution, sir. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Please, with a formal motion, Mr. Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u3	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the PGE trade unions of OPZZ called on us, to 460 Members, to speak with one voice on the Turov issue. [[And yesterday...]] It is true that if Deputy Prime Minister Jacek Sasin goes and solves the Turov case, then surely the request for his cancellation does not help the Republic. And that is the wolf's right of opposition to make such a request, but I appeal to President Boris Budka to withdraw this proposal today until the end of the matter in Turów, because unfortunately your argument will remain... [[The voice from the hall: Janusz... even the PiS government has withdrawn you.]] ...used in a formal case before the Court of Justice of the European Union. This is not the time for political debates on this subject, let's talk about it after the matter is over in Turów. [[I mean, this thing's already been taken care of.]] Therefore, I strongly support trade unions with OPZZ and appeal for loyalty to the Republic. [[Voice from the room: Vaseline.]] Then when the Polish state is attacked, let us speak with one voice. Mr. Chairman, I'm gonna... [[Voice from the room: Prime Minister...]] [[And what did the Prime Minister do?]] ...I submit this letter to the OPZZ, hoping that you will behave responsibly and withdraw this request, at least until (the bell) the end of the case in Turów. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Janusz, but the Turks...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u4	Thank you, sir. Here you go, Mrs Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u5	Mrs. Marshal! I make a formal request for a break, a call for a Senior Convention and inclusion on the agenda of information from the Minister of Education and Science and explanations, which belong to the High House. Explains why, once again today, the Minister of Education has committed a sting and insult to citizens legally exercising their constitutional right to assembly, [[Applause]] why he called the people participating in the Saturday parade of equality... [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] ...unnormal people, why the Minister of Education also wants students, also LGBT+ students, who also participated in this parade. The explanation also requires... [[Voice from the room: Lying.]] [[Don't lie to me.]] ...information that reaches the High House that Minister Przemysław Czarnek is trying to subdue himself radically and completely to the functioning of each school. Threats to prison for directors, turning curators into prosecutors of education, restricting parents' rights... [[Applause]] [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[The Constitution is in force in Poland.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u6	Thank you, Member. Thank you, Member. The Minister of Education, Mr Przemysław Czarnek, asked for the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u7	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's great that we're all seeing each other, we're back... [[Moravian laughs at you.]] ...to normality. But neither the Left nor the Member returns to normality. Madame, I have a formal request that you once again listen to my statement and stop lying impudently. [[Applause]] Poles see... [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ... Poles see your narrative, full of... [[The voice from the room: Liar!]] ...Cham, full of lies, falsifying reality. [[Voice from the room: Apologize.]] [[Voice from the room: Formal conclusion...]] If you do not understand the Polish language, that is your problem, but not mine, and I will not explain the words in the Polish language. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Member Janusz Korwin-Mikke: It is the fault of the education system.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u8	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, since the same request has been made twice and this is not possible, we will vote for a recess. You're welcome. As a formal request for a break has been made, I will put this request to the vote. Madame, there has already been one request for a break... [[Sit down.]] ...you've notified him once again... [[Sit down.]] ...you reported him once again against the rules, so... [[Mr Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk: Ad vocem.]] ...we're gonna vote for a recess so there's no further requests for the same thing. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. [[Voice in the room: corrected.]] [[Your Marshal, but your messenger has the right...]] In a moment, we will first vote on the formal proposal, Mr. President. We are voting on a formal request for a break. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 196 - for, 233 - against, 4 stopped. The conclusion was not received by the majority. With a formal application... [[Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bak: Marshal, corrigendum.]] In corrigendum mode. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u9	Minister! You said: After all, all Poles see what is happening on the streets, and they know what tolerance is. After all, what happened there has nothing to do with tolerance and equality. Poles see who's normal and who's not. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the room: True.]] Minister! Minister, it is not your right to refuse students, young people, teachers or any of them. [[Applause]] Minority of use, right to use... [[Voice from the room: Into the microphone!]] [[Only minorities have rights.]] ...from the constitutional right to gather and express one's own views. Minister, the only language you know is the language of hatred, the language of sting and the language that leads to the fact that the students you should be watching for commit suicide, self-harm and self-harm. [[Applause]] [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u10	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you, Member. [[Voice from the room: Bis.]] [[Voice from the room: We didn't hear it.]] Please, with a formal proposal from Mr Michał Urbaniak, the Confederation. [[Isn't your marshal ashamed?]] Let me remind you, Mr President, that the request for a break has already been voted out. Once again, the same conclusion cannot be reached. [[Voice from the Chamber: Change of conduct.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u11	Maybe I have a slightly more serious conclusion than the last one. Dear Marshal! Dear Ministers, High Izbo! I'm also filing for a recess to convene the Seniors Convention... [[He's been here before.]] ...in a very specific case, in order to complete the agenda for information of the Minister of National Defence on the regulation of 21 May, which de facto took away the only source of livelihood for hundreds of Polish fishermen from the Coast and the Vistula Bay. I'd like the Minister to tell us how these fishermen are supposed to live now, if there wasn't even compensation for them, and the fisheries are closed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u12	Thank you very much. We are not voting on this proposal because it is the same proposal. Here you go, Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u13	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I shall request that the deliberations be adjourned until tomorrow, at no later than 3 p.m. 9, convening the Senior Convention and putting on the agenda a point on the Prime Minister's information on why two extreme organisations associated with Mr Robert Bąkiewicz, the National Guard Association and the Independence March, received a total of 3 million public money for their activities. [[Applause]] Dear Marshal! These are extreme organizations that destroy Warsaw every year. It can't be that Poles want a solution to the Association of Independence March... [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] [[Voice from the room: Don't lie!]] [[That's not true!]] ...and the country from the Patriotic Fund, which you requested the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Gliński, simply sponsor ordinary hooligans. It just can't be. I ask that we hear from the Prime Minister about this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u14	Thank you, Member. A formal request for adjournment has been made. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 186 - for, 229 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. I would like to remind you that the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens submitted requests to supplement the agenda with points: - Information from the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General on the actions taken by the prosecutor's office in the period from 4 March 2016 in order to issue a decision refusing to initiate an investigation or investigation; redemption of an investigation or investigation; withdrawal of an indictment; referral to the court of application referred to in Article. 5 of the Act of 10 June 2016 amending the Act - Code of Criminal Procedure, the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and the Act on the Rights of Patient and Ombudsperson of Patients (Journal of Laws). from 2016 poz. 1070) in all cases in which Daniel Obajtek was suspected or accused - the current President of the Polish oil company ORLEN S.A., - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the decision of the Government to adopt 2050 as the date of Poland's achievement of climate neutrality. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 We are voting on the motion for information from the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General, on the actions taken by the prosecutor's office. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Move in the courtroom, some Members get up, give a round of applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] [[Voice from the room: Too fast!]] [[Too fast, Marshal.]] Too fast? Ladies and gentlemen, it turns out I'm reading too fast. [[Movement in the courtroom, some Members hit the desktops]] [[Voices from the room: No.]] Wait a minute. [[Voice from the hall: You had to focus on the vote.]] Ladies and gentlemen, more than 100 Members have not voted. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I'm declaring a recess. Convention to the dark living room, please. [[Applause]] [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 mins 22 hours 10 min 33]] I'm reopening the session. 321 Members voted. 170-- for, 151-- against, no one held back. The Sejm has accepted the motion. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, at the same time, I've asked the head of IT to see how it's possible that over... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Wait a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Member, please do not argue with me. I've accepted the results of the vote. Let me know what the outcome of the meeting is... [[Voice from the hall: They don't like Ziobra.]] ... Convention and my decisions. I asked you to check it out. We have a new system, we have returned to a normal, stationary vote, so I need to know if I can say thank you right away, and there are results, if we have to wait a while. I'll take that vote. [[Applause]] We proceed with the next vote, ladies and gentlemen. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: We won.]] [[And what are you happy about?]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting on the proposal for information from the President of the Council of Ministers on climate neutrality. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] I'm waiting. Ladies and gentlemen, I have not completed the vote. Does it work for all of you? [[Voice from the room: It's working.]] [[This needs to be pressed.]] Nobody's reporting any problems, right? Thank you. [[If you have your hands clean, it works.]] 437 Members voted. 209 - for, 226 - against, 2 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u15	I would like to inform you that the following Commission meetings will be held today: - Administration and Home Affairs - at 3 p.m. 10.30, - Poselska etiquette - at 3 p.m. 10.30, - Health at about an hour. 10.30, - to Energy, Climate and State Assets at 3 p.m. 11, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development - at 3 p.m. 11, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - at 3 p.m. 11, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - at 3 p.m. 11, - Constitutional responsibility - at 3 p.m. 11, - Foreign Affairs - at 3 p.m. 11, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - at 3 p.m. 11.30, - to the European Union at 3 p.m. 12, - Agriculture and Rural Development - at 3 p.m. 12, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 3 p.m. 13, - Infrastructure - at 3 p.m. 13, - Culture and Media - at 3 p.m. 13, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping - at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Public Finance - at 3 p.m. 14, - Communication with Poles abroad - at hours. 14, - Justice and Human Rights at 3 p.m. 14, - Public Finance - at 3 p.m. 16, - National Defense at 3 p.m. 16, - Social Policy and Family Policy - at 3 p.m. 16, - Health at about an hour. 16, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - at 3 p.m. 17. The Parliamentary Firefighters' Team will be held at 3 p.m. 16. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, just a brief announcement. This point, which we voted on in the previous vote, will be discussed tomorrow at the end of the Sejm. I'll give you a heads-up. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft law amending the Social Insurance Act and some other laws (Prints No 1188 and 1212). I ask Mrs Ursula Rusecka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u17	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I present a report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on a draft government law amending the Act on the Social Security System and some other laws, print No 1188. The Marshal of the Sejm, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, sent, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, on 19 May 2021 the above draft law... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]] I would very much like to ask Members who are not taking part in this part of the sitting to leave the Chamber and to allow the rapporteur to provide a statement of reasons. Thank you. Thank you very much, Marshal. On 19 May 2021, the above draft law was first read by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. The aim of the project is to organise and rationalise the social security system, including the introduction of uniform arrangements for the granting and payment of benefits, as well as the improvement of the functioning of the Social Insurance Institution in the context of the financial economy, and the settlement of contributions with contributors. At the stage of application of the existing rules, there were also differences in interpretation which the project eliminates. The aim is to harmonise the rules on social security coverage of social security entitlements and their payment. And yes: standardization of the rules governing the insurance cover of members of single-member companies of o.o. and the shareholders of a public partnership, partnership company or limited partnership company - the current legal state raises doubts of interpretation in relation to persons engaged in activities which are partners of companies: public, limited partnership or partnership, and a single member company.; it is proposed to make the social security obligation dependent on the status of the partner; to harmonise the rules for the payment of sickness benefits in the social security and supply system so-called. uniform services; harmonising the rules of procedure for the right to sickness benefits from accident and sickness insurance; simplifying the rules for voluntary insurance; aligning the forms of payment of long-term benefits; the right to deduct unpaid contributions from benefits paid by the undertaking and to deduct pension benefits from the benefits paid; and the clarification of the rules on the possibility to claim the benefits unduly collected; simplification of the procedure for documenting the right to parental supplementary benefits; electronicisation of applications for certificates A1. The Act also includes changes in the determination of the right to benefits. And so, another way of valorizing contributions and initial capital for people who apply for retirement in June. It's a very expected change. It is proposed that the 2020 solution on the rules for determining the amount of new pensions granted in June, from 2021 onwards, including the valorisation of initial capital and the contributions recorded in the insured account should be implemented permanently, in the same way as in determining the amount of the pension in May, if this is more favourable to the insured person. It is proposed to increase the scope of pension protection for persons who have become completely incapable of working during the period of taking care, special care allowance or care allowance or after the right to these benefits has ceased. It is proposed to harmonise the rules, inter alia. as regards the conversion of pensions from so-called the old and new pension scheme continuing to work; the amendment of the rules on the suspension of social pensions in the event of the exercise of professional activity; the change in the right to sickness insurance benefits. The provisions contained in the Act are intended to improve the handling and orderly the actions of the payers in order to stabilise the balance of the accounts of payers and insured persons. It is proposed to limit the transmission of corrections to documents insured up to the age of 5; changes in the area of remission of claims for non-counting interest contributions for reasons attributable to the undertaking and the issue of certificates of non-legitimate status. It is proposed to modify the concept of "type of business' according to PKDs, as well as the obligation for all contributors to establish a PUE. As regards the improvement of the handling of settlements with contributors, it is proposed to introduce a provision clearly defining what events to differentiate the interest rate of the accident insurance contribution are considered to be an accident at work and therefore what accidents the employer should include in the information of the IWA ZUS. There is no succession of the interest rate of the accident insurance contribution in cases of transformation, merger or division of the contributors. It is proposed to clarify how the payer's accident insurance contribution rate is determined during the transitional period, i.e. until a certificate of entry in the REGON register containing information on the activity by PKD is obtained from the statistical office. It also proposes changes in the scope of the financial economy carried out by the Social Security Office. And yes, it is proposed that the reserve fund be terminated. Ensure the proportionality of the revenue and costs of the FUS. Mode of making and approving changes to the financial plan of the undertaking. It is proposed to introduce the possibility of redemption, deferral or relief in the payment of civil claims by the Social Insurance Institution. New rules for the appointment of the Supervisory Board of the Social Insurance Institution are proposed. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The Social Policy and Family Committee, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 27 May 2021, invites the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u18	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Law and Justice will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u19	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the government draft law amending the Act on the social security system and certain other laws, print Nos 1188 and 1212. The aim of the project has already been mentioned by the rapporteur. Now I'm gonna pass on the major shifts. The bill includes, among others, the following proposals. Uniformisation of the rules governing the coverage of members of single-member limited-liability companies and members of a public, partnership or limited partnership company. The social security obligation will arise from the date on which the companies are incorporated into the National Court Register or from the date on which they acquire participation in the company, and will cease from the date on which the company is removed from the National Court Register or the sale of all shares in the company, excluding the period of suspension of the company's activities. The next proposal is to simplify the rules for voluntary insurance. Submitting to voluntary insurance will take place from the date indicated in the application form until the date indicated in the registration form. At the same time, the inclusion or termination of voluntary insurance may take place no earlier than the relevant notification, the registration will be filed with the Social Security Office. The notified person will be subject to this insurance even if the contribution is paid after the deadline or is not paid at all. It will also be possible to apply for sickness insurance benefits if contributions are paid after the deadline and for persons whose incapacity to work occurs during the period during which they are overdue for contributions, the newly introduced regulations will allow for the application for benefits after payment of the debt on an equivalent basis as for accident insurance benefits. The deduction from paid claims for contributions to benefits paid by the Social Security Office will be carried out by minimising the costs of the investigation. Now there are about 170,000 cases like this. for the amount of nearly PLN 170.200 million. Clarify the provisions on the possibility to investigate unduly collected benefits. In the case of the performance of work during the period of the declared incapacity to work or the use of dismissal in a manner incompatible with the purpose of that exemption, the Social Security Office shall issue decisions refusing entitlement to the benefit and requiring the reimbursement of the wrongly collected allowance. Changes in the forms of payment of long-term benefits. From 1 January 2022, these benefits will be provided in non-cash form or through service providers. However, it is proposed to leave the current regulation for short-term benefits without change - it is about sickness, maternity and caring benefits, rehabilitation benefits. In addition, the right to sickness benefits. There will be new rules for calculating periods of incapacity for work up to one allowance period. It will include both periods of continuous incapacity for work and periods of incapacity for work that occurred before and after the break, if this interruption is no longer than 60 days and if this incapacity does not occur during pregnancy. The length of the allowance period during the insurance period will not change - it is still, in principle, 182 days and 270 days in case of incapacity during pregnancy and tuberculosis. In contrast, the period of sickness allowance after the end of the insurance period will be reduced - it has been assumed that it will not be longer than 91 days. The new rules will concern the appointment of the Supervisory Board of the ZUS. These rules will apply from the end of the current 5-year term of office of the Supervisory Board, i.e. from October 2022 The obligation to establish a PUE ZUS by all contributors. Currently, employers employing up to five people are exempted from the obligation to establish a ZUS information profile. According to the new rules, from 1 January 2023 everyone will have to do it. The Law and Justice Club supports a procedated bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u20	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Joann Frydrych, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u21	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition is pleased to present the position of the club on the draft law amending the Act on social security and certain other laws. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This draft law introduces changes in the scope of e.g.: rules on the granting of pensions in June, rules on the payment of sickness benefits, rules on the application of social insurance to persons who are members of a public partnership, limited partnership or partnership company, rules on the conversion of pensions from so-called. an old and new system of pensioners continuing their professional activity and the liquidation of the reserve fund. The other changes are of a sequencing nature. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This law provides for the reduction of the allowance period after the end of the title of insurance from 182 days to 91 days. Did the designers consult the medical services? Is it possible to cure the depression caused by the termination of the employment relationship within 3 months? The Act also provides for periods of incapacity to work after a break not exceeding 60 days from the last incapacity to work to include those periods in one allowance period, even if the incapacity to work before the break and after the break was caused by another disease unit. Now imagine the situation: an employee became incapable of working because of a femur fracture - a complicated disease - used a full allowance of 182 days, and after a month it turned out to be a cancer. Ladies and gentlemen, this person will no longer benefit from the right to sickness benefits because the government today wants to push through restrictions that shorten the allowance periods. This provision is extremely reckless and focused only on savings. On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I will make an amendment to this matter. Another shift. The Act covers the shareholders of a single-member company with an o.o. and the partners of the limited partnership, the public and partnership obligation to be subject, to pay social security contributions. Did the government ever think that in time after the pandemic, many companies are bounced back after the crisis, and you want to charge them extra costs? What will the health contribution look like when the New Deal is introduced? You are talking more and more about civic retirement, in the National Reconstruction Plan you are talking about longer working lives. Ladies and gentlemen, let the government finally take up the debate, invite experts, take advantage of science and research and propose something clear and clear to the citizen. I also make an amendment here. With regard to the new rules for granting pensions to persons whose applications were submitted to the Social Security Office in June, this is a good solution. However, the Act does not provide for the possibility of converting according to new rules for persons who have been entitled to a pension in June 2009 to 2019. The provision is non-constitutional and does not comply with the principle of equal treatment. I therefore make an amendment on the possibility of converting June pensions under the new rules for persons who acquired the right to retire in June 2009 to 2019. This amendment will meet the principle of equal treatment and pensioners will have a sense of justice. The proposed amendments provide for the harmonisation of the possibility of converting pensions granted from the old system and the new system. These changes will result in a working pensioner who retires from the old system being able to count his benefits once a year and not, so far, once a quarter, or four times a year. These changes are detrimental to active pensioners. At this point the question arises: Does the government seek to increase pensions for active pensioners, or will it block them from increasing benefits? Thus, they are discouraged from being active and paying social security contributions. We will also make an amendment here. The proposed bill provides for the liquidation of the reserve fund. This fund is created as a reserve fund for funds: pensions, sickness and accident, and is created by the Social Security Office from funds remaining on 31 December each year on the Social Insurance Fund bank account. The reason for this change is that there is a continuing shortage of funds in the Social Insurance Fund and there is a need to subsidise this fund from the State budget. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But looking at the financial statements, you can see that every year about PLN 2 billion remains in the FUS account. In my view, the liquidation of this fund will obscure transparency. We will also make an amendment on this issue. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club will support this bill, but provided that our amendments are adopted. Otherwise, we'll vote against. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u22	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u23	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, I have the honour to present the position of the Coalition Parliamentary Club Left against the government draft law amending the Social Security Act and some other laws. For the first time, the government openly says that it is necessary to save money on those whose health is failing. The provisions proposed in this law will not be supported by the Left parliamentary club. We are here in a position together with the Polish Trade Union Agreement. I think that the government does not listen to the views of the social partners, who explicitly reject the attempt to reduce sickness benefits. What you are proposing also means reducing the protection period against termination of employment in the context of the Article. 53rd Labour Code. The Left won't allow it. We have an amendment on that. If we want to adopt this law - it is true: an important one that regulates and clarifies certain issues - we should, however, seek agreement. During a pandemic period, such a difficult period of exit - I mean the economic crisis now - must we also make such restrictive changes, so unfavorable to insured people, those who benefit from sickness benefits? We don't think it's a good time. Resolutions in the Act on, for example, the harmonisation of the provisions on the conversion of pensions from the so-called the old and new pension system for those who continue to work and settle benefits are also proposed down, which is worse. At the moment they have the opportunity to submit an application for settlement after the end of each quarter, four times a year. The government says let's unify these two systems, old and new, and let's do it once a year. This will take place once again with a disadvantage for those who continue to work. Another issue is the harmonisation of the rules on professional activity, which I mentioned, as well as the introduction of a non-cash form of long-term benefits. Today according to the data of the ZUS 81% the recipients benefit from the banking system, i.e. transfers are made. The reasons for the government project show the types of these benefits, e.g. those introduced for mothers 4+, less than 37% use the banking system. We must take into account that many of the recipients are independent, living in small, rural environments where there is no Internet access. Today, to say that they must be forced to accept their constitutional right to retirement by having this account and accounting, we find it inappropriate. Resignation from mandatory delivery of administrative decisions in the mass process is justified when benefits, as for example. The 13th pension is granted to all alike. But when we have a one-time benefit, so-called. The 14th pension, differentiated, should then also be provided at the request of the insured person himself. It also raises doubts about the proposal to extend the catalogue of services and institutions that today are entitled to read the information collected in the insured account and in the payer's account. There are two services here, namely the Internal Security Agency and the Central Anti-corruption Office. We don't think that's justified either. The Left Club introduced a bill that said that no punishment for sickness, i.e. for L4 should be 100% (The bell) Paid. In conclusion, I present the relevant amendments to the bill. We are clearly talking about the fact that we must not save money on people who are in difficulty and who benefit from sickness. If the amendments are not accepted by the High Sejm, the club will vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u24	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Bożena Ironowska, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u25	Dear Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Parliamentarians! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I am pleased to present to you the position of the club vis-à-vis the government draft law amending the Act on the Social Security System and some other laws in print No 1188. After analyzing this law and consulting both with the Polish Union of Residents, Rencists and Invalids, as well as with entrepreneurs, we believe that the proposed solutions are mostly acceptable. However, there are many provisions of the proposed law that raise serious doubts. It goes on for example. a provision concerning the payment of long-term benefits in non-cash form and so-called June pensions. The proposal to introduce a non-cash form of payment of long-term benefits is, in principle, right - it is safer for the recipients and cheaper. However, it should be noted that there are persons in the group of recipients who, for various reasons, prefer the traditional form of provision of benefits. There are people who didn't have, they don't have, and they won't have an account. The law further states that after obtaining the consent of the Social Security Office, it will be possible to withdraw from the bank transfer at the request of the person concerned. Here the question arises: What criteria and circumstances does the legislator have in mind? There's no mention of that in the bill. I believe that it should be left to the parties themselves to choose. With regard to June pensions, it should be pointed out that a one-off solution was adopted in 2020 setting the rules for calculating their amount, such as in May. The proposed proposal provides for the introduction of this principle on a permanent basis, but only in relation to pensions granted from June this year. This does not take into account the situation of people taking retirement pensions from previous years, which will remain permanently reduced. This is detrimental to this group of people and raises constitutional doubts. The Act provides for a reduction of the allowance period after the end of the title of insurance from 182 days to 91 days. We will make an appropriate amendment in this regard. The proposed amendment includes shareholders of single-member companies, limited partnership companies and public companies. It imposes an obligation to be subject to social insurance and to pay social security contributions. Let's get this straight, ladies and gentlemen. Reading these records gives the impression that the government is nervously looking for money, because the budget of the Social Security Fund is not tight. The Act is intended to facilitate the collection of contributions for the wrongness of the benefits collected. Of course, Poles will lose it. Remember, it's the second year of the pandemic. During that time many Polish companies fell. Poles try to make ends meet. I remind you that for several years there have been projects of our laws submitted by the Polish People's Party in the Seym freezer. It's about a voluntary ZUS and a pension without the tax you put on the New Deal. I hope this idea comes into force. Parliamentary Club Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland will support the project after taking into account the amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u26	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation. Please, sir, put your mask on. The obligation to wear masks in the Seym has not yet been lifted. All Members who do not have masks, please assume them.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u27	Mrs. Marshal! The representative of the Civic Coalition didn't have a mask either. Ladies and gentlemen! The law on the Social Security Office, which you are introducing, is huge, contains a great deal of different changes that you are making. I'd like to focus on a few of the most important things. First of all, you've already killed the commando companies. It's what you did last year. You have led to the fact that the limited partnership is being taxed in an exceptionally unattractive way at this point. You made it happen. Now, as part of the New Deal, you are announcing further tightenings and additions, additional taxation for people conducting single-person activities. Some form of escape was running a company. You're now introducing taxation, embezzling partners, so it's an act that's clearly against people who run any of their own activities. It's obvious, clear and clear that you're just fighting people who run their own businesses. Like any government, like your predecessors, you just hate people who can do things themselves and don't have to work at either the Treasury company or any office. That's just how you do it, and it's visible in this act like a bull. [[Don't lie to me.]] Second thing. It is the obligation to register in the electronic system for all. We know very well that many people do not do business in a way that allows them to register. A lot of people don't use this form. Many people at this point do not use computers on a daily basis in sectors whose operation is not based on the Internet. So it's going to be a huge operation to force people to register in a system where they're not at the moment, and it wouldn't be if you didn't force them to. We will need to think about how they will deal with this, because of course this system will not be easy. Another thing is to reduce the insurance period in the case of incapacity for work from 6 to 3 months. It's so clear, it's as clear as it gets. It's just that you're looking for savings. Hitting people who aren't able to work at some point. This is quite interesting of you, as you are a party that presents itself as a prosocial, prosocial party, a party that wants to help people who are in a bad situation, and here is such an unambiguous shooting in the nose of people who are unable to work, shortening their insurance period from 6 to 3 months. Yeah, well, bravo for you. I hope that this will be properly read by your constituents, because these are the people to whom you usually refer to social projects - and this is a social project that strikes them accordingly. Another thing is to change the way you charge contributions. I would like to say: there is such a sacred rule - the law does not work backwards. Since the law does not work backwards, any change in the rules for the calculation of contributions may apply to people who will only enter this system and not those who are already in this system. Regardless of how long they are in it, because the Polish state accepts a man into the system - a young man who enters the professional path for the first time - making a deal with him. The agreement, which is obviously not written, is not contracted in any way; it's just how this ZUS works illegally, in this way, because in the private sector, something has to be signed, something has to be agreed. The State makes a deal with a young man that, under certain conditions, he will collect contributions and then one day he will retire. You guys are changing the rules in the process. It's not just that you shouldn't do it, it's not normally done. It is absolutely unacceptable to do something like this, but on the other hand, Law and Justice have accustomed us to doing things that no other government would allow itself to do. Finally, I must say that there are no free market rules here. The fact that you are now changing the rules in the insurance system, that you are introducing these restrictions, that you want to additionally use people conducting their activities in a form other than one-man business, that you want to shorten the period of health insurance, all these things cause that - if not for the fact that the Social Security Office is a monopoly and the State has an exclusive right to collect their citizens' pension contributions, if there was no private system in which every citizen could have been insured according to their own will - you wouldn't have customers. You just wouldn't have had a customer movement like that, because if a private company where I'm insured, where I'm putting my money in for extra insurance, she told me that day by day they're changing, extremely bad, the conditions for keeping my money in their accounts, I'd just take the money. You Poles, on the other hand, do not allow this to happen. The Confederation will vote against. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u28	Thank you very much. Mr President, I have not noticed that the Member spoke without a mask. I remind you, everyone in this room has to wear masks. And I'm really not gonna make any exceptions for anybody. Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u29	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The law provides for some kind of amenities, a level playing field, but on the other hand it also introduces quite controversial provisions; some were spoken of by my predecessors. The project proposes e.g. insurance cover of members of single-member limited liability companies and shareholders of open, partner and limited partnership companies, regardless of the circumstances in which they operate. I understand that this is the way of law and justice to supplement the Social Insurance Institution's cash register. The question of how this corresponds to reality - because it can actually lead to some entrepreneurs having to make some artificial changes again, to write out some of their partners, who, for example. they are not really involved in the company's life in any way, etc. Currently, in the old pension scheme, a pensioner who is employed and is covered by insurance may apply four times a year to re-establish the amount of the benefit plus the premium periods. You modify these provisions and propose that such a proposal can be made once a year, which will bring about a level playing field in the old and new pension system. As I understand it, this is to limit the cash flow, because it is known that submitting an application once a year, and not four times a year, will make these additional charges affect citizens' pockets later. So on the one hand, you say you care about the retirement business, but this recipe shows you going the other way, completely different. And the most controversial recipe. The proposed changes also provide for new rules for the inclusion of periods of incapacity for work. It will include both periods of continuous incapacity for work, as well as periods of incapacity for work that occurred before and after the break, if this break is not longer than 60 days and if the incapacity does not occur during pregnancy. The length of the allowance period for the insurance period will not change and it will continue to be 182 days, but the period of sickness allowance will be reduced after the insurance has ceased. It was assumed to be reduced from 182 days to 91 days. Minister! I don't think these are the times to make these kinds of changes. How to identify the patient during the insurance period and the patient after the insurance period. How can you differentiate their rights? However, the disease is a sufficient problem for many people, so introducing additional problems related to the lack of basic income and the possibility of living during the illness is something that - in such difficult times as we have today, during the continuing state of the epidemic - is a little surprising, given that you believe that you care about the rights of working citizens and future pensions. We still have the introduction of a mandatory non-cash form of benefits. Such solutions raise doubts about their impact on eligible persons, both organisationally and financially. There is no reference in the explanatory memorandum in this respect. The project also includes a deduction, i.e. contributions and interest on late payment, enforcement costs, notice costs and an additional payment not paid in time will be deducted from social security benefits paid by the Social Insurance Institution. That also raises our doubts. As regards the change in the presumption of voluntary insurance, we will also make an appropriate amendment. This is unacceptable for us. After this change, it will not be important whether or not the payer paid the contributions, but whether the payer of the contributions was excluded from social security. This means that people who do not submit the form within a specified period will be debtors of the Social Security Office, which means you want to increase your revenue to the budget again. You want to punish people for not submitting a document, which is to multiply bureaucracy, because during the period (the bell) from the date of accession to voluntary sickness insurance until the date of filing the application for registration fees will be charged. I have some amendments and, of course, on the adoption of these amendments, but also on those amendments that the predecessors have said about, we will make our support for this law conditional.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u30	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. I'm determining the time to ask a question - 1 minute. I'm asking you to follow the time. The first Mr Dariusz Olszewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u31	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! In the light of the work carried out on the revision of the Social Insurance Act, I would like to ask you to explain whether a person conducting non-agricultural economic activities and for this reason paying insurance premiums to the Social Security Office, while holding a large plot in rural areas, with an area above 1 ha of conversion, is still required to pay insurance premiums in both companies, namely the Social Security Office and the KRUS. If contributions are paid to both social security companies, to the Social Security Office and to the CRUS, can the insured person in the future count on the payment of pension benefits from both companies or just one of them? I am asking this question, because many such questions have been asked by the citizens of the district of Warszawska bardzanka, so I promised that such a question would be asked. Please answer me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u32	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u33	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, I know you as a trade union activist presenting your views here in this High House, which has clearly advocated that the protection of workers under the Labour Code should be at an appropriate level. However, here you are proposing solutions for unitary time counting, 60 days, which is related to the protection resulting from the Labour Code and the Law on special rules for resolving labour relations with employees for reasons not affecting employees. So this solution will make things worse when it comes to protecting employment relationships. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is this the government's intention to amend it? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u34	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Hanaczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u35	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For me personally it is a rather surprising project, but surprising in the author's release, i.e. the PiS, a party which is very populist, very prosocial. I understand that these solutions must also sound in public funds, because for many Poles it will be quite surprising. There are solutions that should be commended, but for me it is completely incomprehensible that these solutions are implemented. Personally, I know a lot of people who, after the pandemic, after the COVID disease, on the one hand, are very afraid of losing their jobs, and on the other hand, they need a lot of time to recover - with their health and depression. Therefore, I want to ask such a question, although it seems to me that it is rhetorical, because these solutions (the bell) result from the fact that there is no money in the system and perhaps sooner or later we will also start talking about retirement age. Why do you want to limit the possibility of recalculating a pension for people with so-called. the old pension scheme before 1999, for those who are still working? Why is the possibility of a favourable conversion of pensions for those who retired in 2009 and 2019 limited? Let me ask you a question straight away, Minister. Are these changes related to financial problems in the insurance system? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u36	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you and I ask for time discipline, because today is a very long day. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Niemczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u37	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In your explanatory memorandum, we read that the solutions to be prepared are intended to seal the social security system. But when I read the bill, I don't see it at all. What kind of system seal is the planned change of the Supervisory Board of ZUS? Is this a legitimate change or is it a politicisation and action aimed at taking over another institution? Why do you want to deprive employers' organisations of proper representation on the supervisory board? So far it's been six people, six members, right now you want it to be three members. You also reduce yourself, only here by 50%, and here by 25%. So far, every employers' organization in the country has had a representative single place. Many industries in crisis shields, we see this, unfortunately, have not received enough help. It seems to me that this change is a punishment for entrepreneurs because they had the courage to protest and loudly point out your incompetence and bad decisions, lack of real help for them. Unfortunately, but from e-mails of truth we also learn that shopping malls and galleries were closed just as a result of protests by entrepreneurs, not as a result of the epidemiological and COVID situation in the country. You're powdering reality again, instead of making real changes to the rules so that the poverty of pensioners doesn't actually increase. [[Group appearances have already been made.]] You're supplementing your budget holes... Go ahead and finish. ...that you can't plan, and you're making money to the right and left. Go ahead and finish it, Member. Start loving Poland and Poles and stop treating them feudally. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u38	Thank you very much. And I'm asking for discipline because I don't want to interrupt anyone. Please, Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u39	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to draw attention to three issues which I find very worrying in this bill. In particular, it is about changes in the number of pensioners who are earning, changes that do not give rise to professional activity, to which we should encourage older people. These changes will be unfavorable. The second point is June retirement. Why did you forget those pensioners who retired in June in 2009 and 2019? [[You guys were in charge back then.]] I want to ask these people today, because those regulations you're proposing... [[The voice from the hall: Were you in charge then, what did you do?]] Not paying attention to this group of people really reminds me of this case that you couldn't handle for a long time, which is the case of the 1953 women. And the third thing... [[And where did these women come from?]] Don't disturb me, Mrs Bartus. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[From your 2012 law.]] Your marshal, Mrs. Bartus took my... I'm asking you to calm down. Finish your work, sir. And I would also ask the Member to remain calm. Go ahead and finish it. Minister! And the third thing that shocks is the supervisory board of the Social Security Office, which will be re-established in 2022. The question is why you limit the representation of employers' organisations to three people... Mr President, finish up. ...though there are far more representative organizations. And another thing: Why is there only one representative of the national representation of pensioners and pensioners? It seems that on such a large ten-man supervisory board... Thank you, sir. ...these senior representatives should be far more. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u40	Thank you, sir. I'm really, really asking you to keep your time, 'cause I'm gonna have to turn off the mic in a minute. Please, Mrs Barbara Bartus, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u41	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm sorry I'm talking to you from where I'm sitting, but it's hard to stand... [[Hold on, ma'am.]] ...when a Member from the Civic Platform refers to women in the year 1953, and this yearbook was wronged by the bill that the Platform with PSL passed in 2012. Then this yearbook was deprived of its rights without warning, as the Constitutional Tribunal ruled. And what you did wrong, we're just fixing. But I have a question for the Minister about the Social Security Act. The Social Insurance Act is such a pillar of all other arrangements for different benefits. This law is dated October 1998, has been amended several times and now there is another major amendment. Thinking about the social security system has changed many times since this year. Various groups entered or exited the insurance system in terms of pension provision (the bell), e.g. MSWiA. And I have a question. [[Voice from the room: Time.]] Minister! Will this bill be rewritten? Shouldn't we create a new act that will regulate this social security system again, fully? The point is to review what has been and what will be re-regulated in a single law, because uniform texts are not exactly what I mean. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u42	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left. Are you an MP? [[Voice from the Chamber: At the committee meeting.]] This is Mrs Magdalena Beyat, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u43	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have two questions. First of all, as regards the deletion of the article. 110a. The explanatory memorandum states that this provision was temporary and that those who wanted to use it had already done so. On what basis do you draw such conclusions? Do you have any record of this? How do you know that all those who wanted to benefit from this provision actually did so? This is very interesting. And the second case concerning changes in the right to sickness benefits. You write in the justification of the project that such regulation will limit possible abuse. I have a question: Why do you treat all citizens, citizens who are ill, who are chronically ill, like potential fraudsters? It is on the State's side that checks on regularity and compliance are carried out. We also see this on the labour market: despite successive Left appeals, you do not decide to strengthen the State Labour Inspection in this area. This is where the thing belongs to the ZUS. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why do you treat citizens like crooks? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u44	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u45	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, this draft law contains solutions that are difficult to recognise as conducive to active people, to entrepreneurial people. It's interesting, because it's such an impression that the government of law and justice doesn't favor those people who want to work, Minister. It's worth thinking about. I also have a question about a slightly different project, but important for future pensioners. It's a project that provides for 15% embezzlement funds which the Poles have collected on open pension funds. [[Voice from the room: Not at this point.]] Let me remind you that this project is still in Parliament. I would like to remind you that the generation of 40-year-olds, 50-year-olds, 30-year-olds, will suffer most at the project's adoption. The State is now de facto introducing a solution which will result in pensions being exempt from taxation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister! I have one question: Will the government withdraw from this project, which is intended to embezzle funds collected by Poles at OFE, and when will you introduce legislation that will eliminate this harmful commission from transforming OFE into a new OFE? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u46	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, the Civic Coalition. I would like to ask you to put on a mask, sir. Thank you very much. I would also ask Mr Grammar to wear a mask. Thank you. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u47	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Many comments and doubts regarding the draft law have already been expressed. Surely these solutions are not beneficial for workers, and it is certainly not the right time to implement them, but the adoption of laws is one thing and the practice is another. I would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister has such data and if the Minister does not have such data, I would ask for a written reply, in how many cases in 2020 the Social Security Office's decisions were refused to grant pension rights and how many of these refusals were effectively challenged in court? I ask because very often they turn to me, to my office the residents, to whom the Social Security Office refused the right to retirement, and then on the way of legal proceedings this pension was granted. Very often there is such an impression that the Social Security Office is trying to reduce the payment of pensions by this practice. I would very much ask you to answer that question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u48	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u49	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me get this straight: PiS wants to cut sick benefits by half. This harmful PiS project after 31 years limits sickness benefits from 182 days to 91. [[That's not true, that's not true.]] We're still in the middle of a global pandemic of coronavirus. Many people who have suffered from COVID-19 are struggling to recover, dealing with the consequences and complications of this serious disease. One of the diseases that people suffer from after a pandemic is also depression that cannot be cured within 91 days. Many people, including chronically ill, were completely cut off from normal treatment during the pandemic summit. They need time to recover, too. That is why I have a question: Minister, why does the PiS government treat citizens so cruelly? [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's probably only one answer: because you just don't have any money. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u50	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u51	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! How come you always do that with one hand and take the other with your hand? In this bill you can see it really very well. On the one hand, you give the possibility to convert or determine the amount of the pension on the basis of a more favourable month, May, but on the other hand, you take the opportunity to value this pension or to increase the rate once every 3 months in a situation where someone is retiring and working, you take away the possibility of this quarterly conversion, you only give this one-time opportunity. But what's most scandalous is that you're actually shortening your sick leave after you've stopped hiring from 182 days to 91. After all, it has been possible since 1990 when there was structural unemployment (the bell) when there were economic crises, but no government has ever raised a hand to reduce this benefit by half, and you are doing it. The question is, Minister, how much will you save? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u52	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u53	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The law you're introducing is an anti-social law that doesn't apply to workers and workers' rights. The reduction of sickness benefits from 181 days to 91 is the first. But secondly, ladies and gentlemen, we all know how the Social Insurance Institution works today. It's bad. There are a lot of complaints, there are a lot of court cases that are caused by bad case law in the ZUS. My question is: Are you aware of how this will further disorganize the work of the ZUS? This will be because someone who is chronically ill and has no right to sickness will, of course, refer the case to the court. Did you improve the activities of the Social Security Office enough to change the rules that disorganize the work of the Social Security Office, but above all they are anti-social and act to the detriment of employees? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u54	Thank you, Member. The last question is asked by Mr Artur Dziambor, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u55	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The fact that this bill is, of course, just another leap on the money of business people, but also insured in the future and insured today, and pensioners, we have already established, has already sounded here in the speeches of all my predecessors, and I also talked about it in my speech. But since we have already established this and that it is quite clear from this law, from the provisions on additional taxation, about shortening the insurance period, etc., I have one very specific question: What is the condition of the Social Insurance Fund at this moment, what are the deficiencies, how much is the amount that the State has to cut somewhere at this point to patch the hole that is required of the State, which the State must pay because it has committed itself? What are the amounts? We'd like to hear it, I think, everybody hear it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u56	Thank you very much. That was the last question. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy of Minister Stanisław Swed. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u57	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I thank you for the discussion on the amendment of the Social Insurance Act, which is commonly called the Law on rationalisation, because that is the purpose of the Act. With regard to the discussion, which, of course, was also held at committee level, I would like to say that it is not our aim to obstruct in any way the functioning of companies or the lives of workers or employers. The main goal is that we try to get this system straightened out. The changes are not just the result of the last year, 2020 or the covid period, but have been talking about these changes for many, many years. In preparing for these solutions, we have worked before on proposals for such changes in the system so that it can be sealed on the one hand and on the other hand so that it can function rationally. The first misunderstanding - I am immediately denouncing all these statements - concerns the issue of banking. There are no amendments to the Act as regards the payment of pension benefits. It is still the same as today: Payout can be made through a bank account and can also be served by a mailman. Nothing changes in this respect, nothing changes. The amendment applies only to non-cash payments intended for persons residing outside the country. Only in this respect is a change envisaged. There are no changes in the case of persons residing in the country. Today, by filling out a print on retirement or pension, we will mark whether we want to use a bank account - then we need to enter an account number - whether we want to use mail service, and of course then the delivery will be delivered to the postman, as it is today. There is therefore no change in this respect. The second very important issue concerns pensions in June. According to the June pension estimates, in the last 11 years the number of people who retired in June amounted to 124 000. Let me remind you that the issue of June pensions arose in 2009, because then these changes were introduced, and today we are trying to sort it out. Already last year we introduced a single change related to COVID so that benefits are calculated on the same basis as the rules applied in other months, and now we want to introduce this systemically. Of course, there has been a proposal that we should even up the amounts for these 11 years, but we have not decided to do so. Of course, this is related to the question of the resources we would have to have for this solution, and this is the amount of more than PLN 4 billion. We calculated in advance after the discussions in committee that this would be the cost of the change. If the Constitutional Tribunal finds that this is not in accordance with the Constitution, then, of course, we will be working together to figure out how to resolve this matter. Today we have proposed a solution that will apply to people who are retiring and pensioning already this year, i.e. if someone retires this month - in June - it will also have a calculated benefit according to the new rules, even if the law enters into force after this month. That's how we solve this case. As I said, the determinant is 2009 when it comes to issues related to June pensions. As regards issues relating to the sickness fund and the changes that we are proposing, of course, we need these provisions, i.e. the changes that we are making when it comes to the payment of sickness benefits, to read together. 182 days are counted together, this is a fundamental change. Of course, when a woman is pregnant, we do not change the rules, the break must be at the level of 60 days so that another right to sickness can be acquired. Today, there were situations where someone received another 180 days' sick leave before the 180th day. On the other hand, we propose a change in the introduction of a period of 91 days after the end of insurance. And in one case, and in the other case after that period, if the right to sickness benefit ends, the person may benefit from a rehabilitation benefit paid for a year, which allows him to return to work. A very important issue, nothing to hide, is the financial issue when it comes to the sickness fund. I'll give you the details of the expenditure from the sickness fund over the past few years. 2016 - 19 billion PLN, 2019 - 23 billion PLN, 2020 - 29 billion PLN. This last year is special because of COVID. In terms of sickness benefits - here the numbers are impressive - in 2016 we spent more than PLN 10 billion on sickness benefits paid by the Social Insurance Institution, we are talking about this part, which is also paid by employers, in 2020 - PLN 14 billion. These are data that indicate that we need to make changes in this system. As regards the absence of sickness, since 2017, the number of sick leave days paid from the Social Insurance Fund has been almost 150 million per year. In 2016 - 146 million days, in 2019 - 143 million days, in 2020 - 154 million days. This is a huge increase. Interesting data, which is worth mentioning here, show that in 2020 medical sick leave was mainly issued for a period of between 11 and 30 days, almost 40% the total redundancies. So here, too, during the mentioned period, the period of sick leave was extended. This is one of the information we need to learn from. The question raised the issue of medical dismissals for mental disorders and behavioral disorders, among others. for depression. There is also a huge increase in this respect compared to previous years, and the period of exemption is also prolonged, hence the changes that arise for different reasons. We are also trying to make changes in this respect. As far as the issue of limited partnership is concerned, we are not making any changes here. These changes are also dictated by the case law of the Supreme Court and by the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which in its case law states that we need to clarify the rules so that they are clear in resolving various types of disputes. Such solutions are here in this regard. Mrs Bartus asked about the whole amendment of the law or the new draft law. Of course, we will systematically pass to Parliament further draft laws on automation, i.e. those measures which are intended to significantly improve the functioning on the part of the Social Insurance Institution, but also the entrepreneurs and payers, so that these actions are consistent and to put an end to the irregularities we are talking about here. The situation with retirement is that if someone meets conditions in Poland today, i.e. when a woman is 60 years old and a man 65 years old, it is in the current pension system that there is no possibility of refusing to grant a pension. Just work one day and that's the case in this case. [[...under special conditions.]] Unless there are special conditions, this is a different situation, here the Member is right. In this case, it is necessary to check whether this period, e.g. 15 years under harmful conditions is documented. In such situations there may be confusion, and therefore in the Social Insurance Institution there are so-called. Retirement advisers who can help, because we know that in such a case, in order to retire, you have to terminate your employment contract and that's why there are sometimes problems that are later resolved on a judicial basis. The Member also asked about the ZUS and KRUS benefits. These are two benefits. The witnessing from the CSO can be purchased at any time and from the CRUS under certain conditions. As far as matters related to the supervisory board are concerned, there is no attempt on the employers' side. Until now, there has been a consensus in the Supervisory Board, i.e. there is a balance between trade union representatives and employers' organisations, plus there is always an organisation of pensioners and government party. That was the supervisory board's arrangement. But over the years, four additional representative employers' organisations have been established in Poland, so employers' organisations also have their representative under the law, trade unions are at the same level, that is, trade unions are representative. There were two solutions to equalize - so to speak - the same level of representation of employers and trade unions. You can either raise the number of members of trade union organisations, but this is the way to nowhere, because there may be other organisations, or you can just put in an equal number. We have decided that for all sides there will be equal numbers, so there will be three representatives of the union side, three representatives of employers, i.e. out of this group must emerge themselves, the party of pensioners always had one representative and so will remain, and three representatives of the government side, that will be a total of 10 people. We've also introduced a provision that says that the current council in the old lineup operates until the end of October 2022, so we will not make any changes in the process here. In conclusion, as I said, the main objective is to rationalise expenditure, but also to improve the situation of people who use the services of the Social Insurance Institution. There is no temptation here to make anything difficult or even difficult - as sharp words have been - to take something away from someone. We're not taking it. We're rationalizing this system. As far as the old and new system is concerned, of course, we maintain here that it will be possible to recalculate pensions. We are evening out, so that the old and the new system will make the conversion of pensions on the same basis. Previously, in the old system, there were more favourable terms of conversion than in the current system, so this issue is settled. I have tried to answer these questions here. One of the Members asked about the status of the Social Insurance Fund. I was talking about the sickness fund, and as far as the Social Insurance Fund is concerned, expenditure and the fund are at the level of about PLN 300 billion - it is two hundred and ninety several billion PLN - and the grant from the state budget is at the level of over PLN 40 billion. Each year, when discussing the state budget, these data are provided by the Social Insurance Institution. Yesterday, the Social Insurance Institution also presented this information from the implementation of the 2020 budget at the meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. There are also detailed, detailed data presented by the Social Insurance Institution. That's it. Once again, thank you very much for this discussion and I ask you to pass the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u58	Thank you very much, Minister. Since during the second time... Excuse me, ma'am. Mrs Urszula Rusecka, Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u59	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to thank you very much, especially Minister Stanisław Swed and the team, for working on this bill. This bill was expected, many things, as the Minister has already mentioned, rationalises, improves what has been expected for many years. This law does not make it difficult for employers to function in any way, so do not practice demagogy here. There are important records to facilitate the functioning of both the Social Insurance Institution and the recipients. Many provisions are, as the Minister has already said, derived from the case law of the Supreme Court or the Constitutional Court. Therefore, I would ask you - I am addressing the opposition Members here - not to practice demagogy in their own blur, but to really read with understanding what is in the law, what changes are being made. An example here is the issue of June retirement. Let me remind you that right now, in the case of this law, there is a time to change the bad rules that have been in place for years. It was very expected. Thank you very much again, Minister, and I ask you to pass this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u60	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Social Policy Committee and the Family on the draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them (prints Nos 1018 and 1248). I would like to ask Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u61	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, print No 1018. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 31 May 2021, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for first reading. The project concerns the extension of the term of office of trade union, trade union or business organisation bodies and social labour inspectors during the duration of an epidemic or epidemic declared on account of COVID-19 or up to 30 days after the withdrawal of the status concerned, pending the selection of a trade union, trade union or organisation body and social labour inspectors for a new term of office, but no longer than 90 days from the date of the cancellation of an epidemic or epidemic. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 8 June 2021, requests the adoption of the above. the project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u62	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Danuta Nowicka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u63	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, print No 1018. The proposed draft provides for the extension of the term of office of trade union statutory bodies, trade union or business organisation and social labour inspectors if the term of office of these bodies expires during the period of the epidemic or epidemic declared due to COVID-19 or up to 30 days after the withdrawal of the status concerned, until the choice of the trade union statutory body, trade union or organization of entrepreneurs and social labour inspectors for a new term of office, but no longer than 90 days from the date of cancellation of the epidemic or epidemic status. The issue of extending the term of office of trade union statutory bodies and employers' organisations has been discussed with representative employers' organisations and representative trade union organisations. They expressed their acceptance of such legislative solutions, among others.: Association of Entrepreneurs and Employers, Association of Employers Business Centre Club, Employers of Poland, Confederation of Lewiatan, Union of Crafts of Poland, National Trade Unions Agreement, Trade Union Forum and NSZZ Solidarity. The project submitted was positively assessed by the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 8 June 2021, requests that it be adopted by the High Sejm. In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice recommends that the High House adopt this draft law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u64	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u65	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition has the honour to present a position on the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, prints 1018 and 1248. Due to the state of the epidemic lasting over a year, the statutory bodies of many organisations, i.e. trade unions, business organisations, but also with regard to social labour inspectors, could not carry out the statutory elections of new bodies in their organisations on a regular basis. This situation therefore requires regulation and the proposal provides for the extension of the term of office of trade union, trade union or business organisation bodies and social labour inspectors. The extension of the term of office will continue for the duration of the epidemic risk because of COVID-19 or up to 30 days after its revocation until the election of the statutory authority, but not more than 90 days after the date of the cancellation of the alert. The procedated bill does not include a professional self-government body, and therefore we propose an extension of the wording of the article. 14i by adding the words "social labour inspector" or "professional authority" after the words "social labour inspector." It is another group of representatives of a particular environment which, due to the pandemic, is unable to carry out the election of new statutory bodies on a planned basis in accordance with its statutes. I therefore make an amendment today and, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition, after my speech, allow me to pass on the amendment to your marshal. The project that we are investigating today extends the designated terms of office for the duration of the epidemic or epidemic condition announced due to the COVID-19 and is strongly in line with the expectations of the representatives of these entities. The legislative solutions presented received a positive opinion from the government and the following organizations: the Trade Union Forum, the National Trade Union Agreement, the Chief Labour Inspector, NSZZ.Solidarity, as well as the Association of Entrepreneurs and Employers, the Association of Employers Business Centre Club, Employers of the Republic of Poland, the Confederation of Leviatan and the Association of Crafts of Poland. I would add that the solution that has so far been lacking is, in the current situation, necessary and very much awaited by the interested parties. According to the data of the CSO, in Poland there are 12.5 thousand. trade unions and about 400 employers' organisations. As the applicants rightly point out, their statutes in the vast majority do not provide for the possibility of making choices or adopting resolutions using means of direct distance communication. On this occasion, I would like to remind you that we would avoid not only today's debate, but we could certainly prevent chaos in many organisations whose existence is so important for social dialogue in Poland if the majority of the Parliament considered one of our citizens' coalitions, amendments tabled to the law on amending the law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and fight against COVID-19. We are in such a situation, ladies and gentlemen, you have predicted and already before, we have already made such proposals last year. However, this proposal did not find recognition of the parliamentary majority. In conclusion, by presenting this position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I would like to express a positive opinion on the draft bill submitted. Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will therefore vote in favour of this project in prints 1018 and 1248. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]] Your Marshal, correct amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u66	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. There's no envoy. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u67	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law, which created the coalition club of Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives, is an obvious response to the needs of all these organizations and trade unions, which at the time of the epidemic threat and the following restrictions cannot choose their statutory bodies. That is why we have proposed to extend this term of office until such time as this state is withdrawn and a certain period thereafter. At this point, I would like to thank the Trade Union Forum, and especially the president of Dorota Gardias, for the initiative with which she came, for this kind of legislative proposal. I would like to thank all those who took part in the opinion of this draft law, headed by the Trade Union Forum, OPZZ, the Chief Labour Inspector, NSZZ, Solidarity and many, many other employers' organisations, entrepreneurs, all those who have taken an interest in this issue. I am extremely grateful to them. I would also very much like to thank the Parliament's legislators, who have supported us in the proper process of this law and in the creation of the amendments that result from the consultation. I thank the government's side for leaning in and cooperating. That's why I'm making two amendments. One technical one, concerning the date of entry into force, where we propose amendments that the Act shall enter into force on the day following the date of publication. The second one, which stems from the interest of other actors - here we complement - employers' unions, their federations and confederations, and we change one word, in the event of an epidemic we convert it either into a "or." I would like to say that during the procession of this law, of course, there were other organisations who learned about this procession. I know that one of the parliamentary clubs is also proposing an amendment. If possible, we will certainly agree to her support. Thank you very much on behalf of the club for proceding everyone over this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u68	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u69	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 on the draft law amending the Act on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them following the presentation of a report by the committee on this project. High Izbo! The project itself concerns the extension of the term of office of trade union statutory bodies, the association or the organisation of entrepreneurs and social labour inspectors during the duration of an epidemic or epidemic declared on account of COVID-19 or up to 30 days after the withdrawal of the status concerned, pending the election of the governing body of the trade union, association or organisation of entrepreneurs and social labour inspectors for a new term of office, but no longer than 90 days from the date of cancellation of the epidemic or epidemic status. Of course, it is an idea, a project that refers to the legislative practice established during the epidemic, as we have seen during the last year and a half. One can wonder how much this is the current problem, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that both the vaccination situation and, I would say, a certain announcement of success in the fight against the epidemic can cause, for example. In the autumn, we will face a kind of recurrence which will prevent the normal functioning of the various organisations, including trade unions, referred to in this project. As this is possible, the idea itself is positive. As Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 we will support this idea and support the project itself. I think it deserves to be noted that this is in some way a unique project. It is a project of the opposition club. In recent years such situations have been extremely rare. If I say that this is probably one of two, perhaps three projects in the last six years, which have been examined by Parliament as autonomous projects and whose authors are Members of the opposition, it will show how unique this situation is. But as I said, as far as the substantive side is concerned, this is, of course, a project going in the right direction. Therefore, as I have already pointed out, Poland 2050 will support this project on the further legislative path. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u70	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Magdalena Beyat, Left. And I ask Mr Berkowicz to wear a mask. Mr. Messenger, masks, masks. No, sir, let's not kid ourselves. Let's take this seriously. We give Poles an example of how we behave in the courtroom. Put your mask on.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u71	Have you at least vaccinated yourself, sir, that you put us in such a fun way here? You're welcome, sir. The order of the Marshals of the Sejm is in effect. We set an example for Poles. Please put on a mask or step out of the O.R. Thank you very much. You're welcome, my fellow Member. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen! The Left supports this draft law. It is a pity that it was decided to include him on the agenda so late. It is a pity that the United Right did not come with this initiative earlier. It is an initiative that responds to the needs of trade unions. A similar solution was introduced in the COVID laws in the case of social organisations, so there was no reason to ignore trade unions in this regulation. It makes it possible to actually extend the term of office of the authorities where the rules of procedure do not provide for remote sitting and remote decision-making. This is certainly still necessary, although it appears so late, after more than a year and a half of the epidemic, because we do not really know for sure that the epidemic will soon be over. We don't know for sure that we will, 100% safe, which one of my fellow Members has just proven with his attitude. So we will definitely be behind this bill, and we will support it. We hope that the necessary amendments will appear at the committee meeting on this issue, because some amendments are needed. We will also support these amendments. I also hope that it will be implemented as soon as possible to facilitate social and professional organisations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u72	Thank you very much, Member. Who among you and your fellow Members would like to come forward for the question? If no one, I'm closing... [[I applied for a club appearance.]] Sign up early because you weren't reported. One more club appearance. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u73	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! There were countless cases when COVID specializations were updated. Today, another such case in detail, and I would like to say a few words about general matters. Poland is currently experiencing a wave of lawlessness, lawlessness related to legal abuses carried out under the pretext of special legal or sanitary regulations carried out in connection with COVID-19 disease. In recent days, the Confederation has presented a remedy for these abuses. It's a law: stop sanitary segregation. On the bill: stop sanitary segregation today we should be sitting here. I invite all Members to sign this project. If someone is really in favour of violating citizens' rights to support sanitary segregation, then he should reveal himself by name in this House, show the voters and say: I want to violate your civil rights, Poles, I am in favour of the government being able to violate the rights of those who work for our country - soldiers, servants, threaten to hold back promotions, threaten to remove them only for example. someone uses rights that even the government theoretically supports, i.e. voluntary admission or failure to receive vaccination on COVID-19. It would take a long time to talk about absurdities connected with the destruction of economic activity in Poland. At the moment, despite the record low incidences, the curiosity of the epidemic is still maintained. Dear government, put an end to this epidemic. Dear government, go to your senses and start applying the same rules for everyone. Why is there supposedly a ban on gathering more than 150 people at the moment, and a great parade of equality has just passed through Warsaw? It turns out that when someone puts up a rainbow flag, it's for this government, supposedly right-wing, as Mrs Beyat said here, that it's the government of the Right, supposedly even the United, even though they're trying to destroy each other right now with Gwin and Bielan, the manifestations under the rainbow flag are untouchable. What's the status of the epidemic? Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, 150 people? And let it go with 15 grand, under the rainbow flag, because they have the protection of the American embassy because they put up a rainbow flag. This is your point of reference. But how do ordinary citizens go, who want to ask for their rights to be respected, entrepreneurs, people on other topics, then there are dickheads, gas and police. And then the opposition will applaud, right? Unless it's an abortion. Then the opposition won't applaud. Mr President, I think we are talking about another printing right now. You represent, ladies and gentlemen, in this House, the two-mindedness characteristic of the two-mindedness that is developed in totalitarianism. Poles know this from the times of communism. They were party members who had something different to say about public circumstances and other things to private circumstances. Today we have party government, party opposition. Double morality in every way. Let's put an end to this epidemic, end this absurdity. Instead of the COVID special laws extending terms in different organizations at the moment, let us deal with real lawlessness. Next case. Outdoor amusement parks up to a maximum of 50% Placements. Why? How many more months are we going to destroy people who have invested private property to make others happy? Next case. Sports facilities, even outdoors, up to 50%. What is this nonsense? What is this absurd? In the Seym 100% , and in the open air 50% ? At the previous sitting in these opposition benches, I saw the former head of the Platform without a mask, one of the leaders of the Left without a mask, and you chase the media in masks. You want to continue harassing Poles. Who are you? An opposition? Do you support the government in lawlessness? Next case. In the other parts of the sharpening there is already sanitary segregation. There's supposed to be 75% in the churches. individuals, but this does not apply to fully vaccinated individuals. But who's checking it out? You gonna put the cops at the entrance to the church to see if people are vaccinated or not? They're gonna have to stick these vaccine certificates on their foreheads? Next case. I got a call from a citizen in the last few days that he was vaccinated in the United States, where he had COVID. And it turns out he's not able to sign up for your system. Unforeseen case. Ping-pong with the Ministry, with health care facilities. It doesn't make any sense. You've created a system of Kafkovian absurdity, which involves citizens. The opposition like a calf is staring at these TV screens. As long as journalists take this seriously, you take it seriously. Rhetorically, you're against the government, you're hitting the desks, if you can accidentally vote something out, and you can't stand up to elementary issues. This is where the Confederation appears as the only real opposition. Stop sanitary segregation - our bill. I invite you, sir, to sign. Show me your actions, not your words. In your actions, show that you are an opposition and that you deserve the trust of the Poles that we are defending today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u74	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. The first question is asked by Mr Szczerba, the Civic Coalition. One minute to ask a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u75	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Bosak! As for the parade of equality, there were dozens of public gatherings that merged into one. And very well, because Poland must be open, tolerant and inclusive, not exclusionary. But we are talking about the COVID Act, which was adopted on 2 March 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, apart from the fact that we are supporting this call for extension of the term of office, we are also paying attention to the pathology of this law. And that will be a specific question for the ministers. This is the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber, which says that in the Ministry of Health, using the COVID law, you have been avoiding the law on public procurement. That's how laptops were bought. It's about 100 laptops for the Ministry of Health in December Ub. What does this have to do with countering the COVID? These pathologies function all the time. When it is changed - this is a specific question - Article. 6a of the COVID Act, according to which public procurement law does not apply to service or supply contracts necessary to counter the COVID? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u76	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Piotr Boris, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u77	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This is, of course, part of the whole, which is about changes in the COVID, about sharpening or directly about situations that cause dysfunctional operation of many social organizations. We will therefore certainly support this in order to extend the terms of office of social actors, employers' organisations, trade unions, a number of institutions that apply to us and also ask to move all statutory requirements, legal requirements. It is obvious that in a pandemic we will give it a chance, and we will support the bill submitted by colleagues from the Polish Coalition, from the Polish People's Party. In response to these suggestions by Mr Bosak, I would like to say that the equality parade is and was (the bell) a place showing tolerance for Poles, bringing together all citizens and not excluding anyone. And this is the most important information, which should also guide us, Members of the Polish Sejm. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u78	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u79	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Another revision of the COVID Act - necessary, indicated and expected. Unfortunately, the Act does not contain and does not cover all organisations as regards the possibility of extending their term of office. It does not include trade unions of business organisations, and there is also no word in the Housing Cooperatives Act. But before you move on to the next amendment, which will concern the COVID law, my question is: What about the draft COVID law concerning entrepreneurs, art. 15ze, i.e. tenants in shopping malls, and four lockdowns, which kill them and impose financial obligations, which cause jobs to be lost and companies to be shut down? The project went to the committee, and it's in the freezer. Please respond to the Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u80	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u81	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As for the draft law itself, it is difficult to have any comments, indeed it is going in the right direction, but I would like to ask government representatives - because it also refers to this original law in the field of so-called. the state of epidemic or epidemic threat - whether it is planned to abolish it. I ignore the fact - because here is one of the few examples where I can agree with Mr Bosak - that, in my opinion, the introduction of this state and on its basis, for example, the restriction of freedom of economic activity or freedom of assembly is absolutely incompatible with the constitution and probably in the near future, in the coming years we will have a lot of legal actions, I think the winnings in this regard. On the other hand, it seems that a discussion should be started by now, a discussion on the eradication of this epidemic state. Therefore, I have a question for the government when the liquidation of this state will take place, which lasts from March ub.r. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u82	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u83	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My questions will go in the same direction, because the pandemic is a transitional time and this should be the nature of the law. This should be a transitional act, not a permanent act. I will repeat the first question after you: When will this state be removed? After all, all the indicators are positive, the Minister says we're on the right track, but there could be another wave or another wave. Therefore, time limits need to be defined in some way. However, this law merely refers to the fact that up to 90 days after removal, after liquidation, after the announcement that the pandemic was terminated. But when? Otherwise, however, there is such a feeling and danger that these terms will be extended for quite a long time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And my question about housing cooperatives. June is a time when housing cooperatives have general meetings. So should there also be extended terms - because for this the presidents are preparing, for reports - or not? I'm asking for a clear answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u84	Thank you very much. And please, Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u85	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As part of the questions, some information. Originally, this draft law included only trade unions, business organisations and the social labour inspector. During the official consultation and the submission of opinions, we received the attention of entrepreneurs, their federations and confederations, and we decided as a club to make such an amendment by agreeing with the government and with the legislators. Later it turned out that other cooperative organisations, veterinarians, PTTK etc. They're reporting, but don't have any regrets about us, we've spoken on behalf of those who volunteered at the beginning. Second thing. I promised I wouldn't complain about the official statement, but I also think it could have been done faster. I hope we don't have an epidemic situation in a moment. And one last thing-- masks. Indeed, as we look at the scientific writings, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The most prestigious British type of Lancet, it says there that if we have a double vaccination, there is no chance of getting infected, so I hope and appeal to the Sejm Bureau that we here, as part of our duties - we are at work - those who are vaccinated do not have to wear masks, because when we go on TV or anywhere else, no one requires masks from us, and we are in the same circle as here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u86	Dear fellow Member, there is nowhere to be said that even after two vaccinations, this disease cannot be diseased. You can, but it's easier to walk. That's what vaccination is for. It's not like if we're inoculated, we'll never get sick again. We can get sick, we just go through this disease lightly and we don't have to go to the hospital. [[Talk to your colleague, Mr Hardie-Douglas.]] Even in our Seym there are people who have been vaccinated twice and have had this disease. Please, Mr Wojciech Saluga, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u87	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'm listening to this discussion, this discussion. We are talking about trade unions and other things, and are we thinking about associations, foundations, cooperatives, political parties, general meetings in companies? Why so selective? Don't we hear from other sites that people can't see each other, just can't go? Have these things been taken into account and not received approval today? Is there any other legislation that's regulated? What about the other groups that can't go through the pandemic? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u88	Thank you very much, sir. The last question is asked by Mr Michał Grammar, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u89	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The COVID Act continues to require the installation of a special application by persons who will be quarantined. It is no secret that this application collects user data, including location data. Those who declare that they are not subscribers to telecommunications networks and those who find that they are unable to install this application due to wrong vision are exempted from the obligation to install applications. Their statement is made under criminal responsibility, and the State is threatening to make a false statement. My question is: What about people who are subscribers to telecommunication networks but do not have smartphones, for example, are used by people who are subscribers to telecommunication networks. 10 or 12-year-old phones? There are a lot of such people in Poland. My second question: Who processes this data? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How long has this data been stored? When will they be destroyed? What do you need this data for? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u90	Thank you very much. That was the last question. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology of Mr Marek Niebżak to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u91	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will say this: today I am authorized and prepared within the limits of this submission, and the questions that have been raised here are very broad. As far as I'm concerned, we have a lot of questions here from the competence of the Minister of Health, but also the Minister of Justice, perhaps the Minister of Digitisation and perhaps the entire Council of Ministers, especially as regards the state of the epidemic. Therefore, in this respect, I would ask for the possibility of preparing a written reply, in consultation or agreement with those resorts that are appropriate. Mr Suchoń rightly pointed out that here it is rare to see a situation when the submission is submitted by the opposition party and the government has a positive position. I would just like to point out to some people that this is not a government presentation. Why, though, does the government directionally support them? That is because it is really based on some findings in the Social Dialogue Council. The trade union party signalled such a need and this project largely implements the demands of trade unions. This explains to some extent the scope of this project, because if it is a consequence of these demands, it does not apply to any other areas of life. There were some questions about other organizations, not just trade unions. Were they remembered or not? As I said, in this case - with the demands of this web page - these postulates necessarily concerned primarily the union side. However, not only because most, although not all, employers' organisations in the RDS also supported and expressed this need. Although, as I say, there is unanimity on the part of employers It wasn't. There was a question about these solutions in the field, for example. commercial companies. Here I can say from memory that it was in the spring of 2020 that commercial companies managed to introduce solutions that allow them to make decisions at the corporate level, i.e. corporate bodies, including ownership bodies, by means of distance communication. So that in this case there are no problems. I also remember solutions for some professional groups. That's where the legal authorities pointed out. As a rule, the history of these regulations is such that the impulse comes from the group concerned, which itself points out that it actually has a need. I think there were also solutions for the cooperative, but I'm getting out of here, and that's why I would ask you to be able to consult. The Minister of Justice is responsible for these solutions. I am very pleased that we can support this solution. As I say, it Somehow it was developed under the RDS. On the other hand, I would ask for a written reply. Oh, let me remind you - this is also, it seems, a fact positively speaking about this project - that in the committee, where the first reading took place, actually 29 out of 31 votes were in favour. This too welcomes - such wide approval of this project. Thank you very much. Like I said, the government's position here is positive.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u92	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and the Act - Bank Law (Prints Nos 1236 and 1304). I ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u93	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure to submit a report to the Committee on Public Finances from print No. 1304 on the governmental bill amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and the Act - Bank Law on Printing No. 1236. The Sejm at its 31st meeting on 15 June 2021, as provided for in Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, he sent the above draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. The Public Finance Commission, after considering the above draft law at its meeting on 22 June 2021, asks the High Sejm to adopt this draft law. I would like to point out that three amendments were tabled during the committee's work, which were accepted by the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u94	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u95	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour and great honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the report of the Committee on Public Finances on the Government bill amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and the Act - Bank Law. This report of the Committee on Public Finance was included in Sejm No. 1304. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports these solutions, supports those very good ideas presented by entrepreneurs, by the Ombudsman of small and medium-sized enterprises and supported by the Ministry of Finance and proposed in this bill. Let us remind you that these changes concern primarily the law on value added tax - these changes are 12 - but very important, also changes concerning the law - Bank law, among others. the possibility of allocating the funds collected on the VAT account to the farmers' insurance contributions. In my view, this is a very important change, a very important point and an easy one. And that's what's in this bill. During the committee work, I had the honour to make two amendments which were accepted by the high committee and are included in this submission. They concern the Goods and Services Tax Act. It is about some modification of the 8th amendment and, in fact, another beneficial solution for taxpayers. These comments, these proposals were adopted by a high committee, as I mentioned. Similarly, minor changes to the transitional provisions have also been adopted by the committee. As I mentioned, this bill was discussed in detail during the first reading. These changes made during the committee's meeting were extremely cosmetic, legislative, so in fact this project did not change during its work in the radical committee. This also shows that it was well prepared at the Ministry of Finance, for which I thank you very much. First of all, however, I would like to point out that this is a response to the demands made by entrepreneurs. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I ask the High House to accept this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u96	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Wojciech Saluga, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u97	Thank you, Marshal. Minister, you weren't at the committee meeting yesterday, unfortunately, and almost every article was the attention of the Legislative Bureau or the amendments were just tabled. So, short eight pages, and a lot of changes. We have the impression that it's written a little bit on the knee, so I disagree with the previous speaker here that it was great prepared. Question: "Where are we in a hurry?" If entrepreneurs expect the law to be simple and stable, and the main drawback is the complexity of these rules and the problems of interpreting them, then you may need to give yourself more time to prepare draft laws so that, for example, legislators do not point out so many mistakes. If we're doing something on our knees, we're replicating the flaws that interfere with business and discourage entrepreneurship. This is often repeated - the fact that the Polish tax system discourages entrepreneurs from doing business, and these regulations are not for people, for ordinary people, although ordinary people run companies, but often for corporate lawyers, tax advisors or officials themselves who interpret these regulations. Of course, we want to believe that the package of these changes will make it easier for businesses to do business. I say: we want to believe, because then life convinces us that problems with interpretation of regulations, with understanding of the law are sometimes, despite good intentions, even worse than before any novels. The position of the Polish Bank Association was also influenced. The government didn't know how to refer to that position yesterday because he didn't know him. Question: "Did the Minister know this position today?" It's in the same tone as before. The association of Polish Banks draws attention to the shortcomings of this law, to something that may disturb, such as the fact that IT systems need to be prepared to recognise transfers from KRUS, so the association of Polish Banks talks about extending the date of entry into force of the provisions of this law related to it. It also asks for the exchange rate according to which adjustments to transactions must be calculated in the case of international transactions, or the manner in which and extent of information is provided as regards the notification of the head of the tax office to be sent to the bank's former clients. Banks don't know what to do. Does the Minister have a position on this? This is where the legislative process is practically over, and the Senate is here. Is it a problem, or is it just a problem? I'm saying it's a quote, because that's the answer. If someone doesn't understand something, if someone is paying attention, why are we in such a hurry? A week ago, the first reading, yesterday, the committee meeting, the minister at the committee meeting, there are no changes, there is no second reading - and we will see how this will be interpreted, interpreted in practice, in life. Again: we want to believe that this is well written and that entrepreneurs will really benefit from it. Therefore, we intend to support these solutions, paying attention to this way of conducting legislation, so that we do not rush, write on our knees and consult, respond, investigate, smooth these regulations so that they are business-friendly, so that entrepreneurs stop saying that they are hindered by the rules in force in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u98	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Tomasz Trela, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u99	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present my position on behalf of the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left. As I said at first reading, any bill that improves, improves or facilitates the functioning of entrepreneurs is worthy of support. And so it will be with this bill. The Left will support him. It will, of course, support those amendments which were tabled yesterday at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finances. Nevertheless, I will allow myself to disagree a little with the fact that this is a very well-prepared project that does not raise any doubts. He may not raise any fundamental doubts, but the questions at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance were very many, the representative of the Ministry of Finance or the Minister of Finance was not, there was no one to answer these questions. It came in, apparently, yesterday or two days ago the position of the banking community. There was no answer to that either. So with this rush to assess the quality of the proposed bill, I would allow myself to disagree. Also, I do not particularly agree with excessive haste, because even technical laws that clarify certain things or indicate a more detailed scope should be developed and discussed much longer, even if there is no doubt about their foundation. But that's by the way. On the other hand, this should be supported as to the scope and direction of action in such matters. Of course, the undisputed issue is that the bill also adjusts certain things with regard to the issues of the European Union, Community matters, such as those relating to the exit from the European Union of Great Britain. Once again, on behalf of the coalition parliamentary club, I declare my support for this bill with the amendments tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u100	Thank you very much. Mr Czesław Siekierski made a statement in writing. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u101	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 a position vis-à-vis the government's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and the Act - Bank law upon presentation of the report of the committee. Ladies and gentlemen! As has already been noted many times here, the government has pointed out in the draft proposal that the aim of these solutions is to change the taxation of goods and services tax by taxpayers. The solutions presented to the High House were called the Slim VAT 2 package and it is indeed acceptable to agree that the content of this package is in the slim version. We would expect the government to take far more courageous steps to simplify, to remove unnecessary bureaucracy, to implement mechanisms that promote business. Because today it seems that one of the most important problems, but also challenges on the part of entrepreneurs, on the side of employees, is to satisfy all these bureaucratic obligations that are imposed daily by the government and subsequent offices, tax offices and other offices that are coming up with increasingly new bureaucratic paths that need to be overcome in order to achieve some effect on relations with the office. Therefore, Minister, it is of course a good thing that such solutions are being created that are conducive to entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, in Parliament's freezer, there are very many projects in parliamentary committees by the Government of Law and Justice, which complicate this economic reality. And I have this appeal to the Minister to try to discuss these actions in some way within the framework of the government's work, so that the nature of these changes is always unambiguously simplifying, unambiguously facilitating the operation of Polish companies, Polish entrepreneurs, employees. On the one hand, today we see that there is a project that is sort of going in this direction, but as I said, there are many other projects that, on the contrary, these conditions of doing business complicate, and that should not be so, and in this respect we view these projects as negative. In fact, even today, we were faced with such a situation that, in the draft law that concerned the social security system, the changes advocated by the government there suggested a reflection that the government did not like people who are entrepreneurial, who work hard, who do their work every day with a view to their families, their future, so it would be worth deciding whether they were for entrepreneurship, for working people, for those who work hard every day or on the contrary - the will of officials who complicate the lives of these hardworking people. On the other hand, the project itself, as has already been mentioned, raises some doubts, which are most widely expressed in the position of the Polish Bank Association. These include: the adaptation of ICT systems to the requirements of the provisions proposed in this draft. And, Minister, yesterday the doubts raised by the Polish Bank Association were not resolved and this is a very serious element that we expect the Minister to explain here. Is it really as the banks say, that at this date, which is enshrined in the Act, these information systems will not be adapted to these requirements. Because if that is the case, then, frankly, these changes for nothing, because, as the Polish Bank Association rightly points out, in order to be able to introduce them clearly, clearly and clearly, and in order for them to work, some work must be done. It is not known whether this is possible. The second thing I want to say is that Poland 2050 amends this law. It also follows from the position of the Polish Bank Association. Its ratio legis is to facilitate certain operations related to the release of funds to entrepreneurs. Therefore, your Marshal's hand (the bell) makes this amendment. I ask you to accept it because it meets the expectations of both the Polish Bank Association and Polish companies that have such bank accounts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u102	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Konrad Berkowicz, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u103	Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I'm going to explain why I'm wearing a mask, which would indicate that I've lost my senses. Well, I note that in Poland for a long time Poles have been legally sitting in restaurants without masks. Here we are in a large air-conditioned plenary room, where there may be dozens of people presently, but yet your marshal asked me out when I came here without a mask, and I wonder if this is just hypocrisy, because apart from the cameras, everyone already behaves slightly differently, whether it is simply putting the security of Members higher than the safety of ordinary Poles. As regards VAT and VAT, however. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say something basic to ordinary people who do not sit in the detail of legislation so that we can understand exactly what VAT is. This is not some specialized tax imposed on entrepreneurs. It's just a common racket on everyone, because it's on consumers. When you go to the store and buy any groceries or go to a hairdresser and use services, you pay an average of 16% at the price of the tax, every time. Entrepreneurs, service providers, traders are only forced collectors of this VAT, and you pay this VAT every time. There is a practice in the United States that all prices are given with and without tax, that happens in exceptional circumstances with us. With us trying to hide it, so that, ladies and gentlemen, remember: when you get 500+ and you're happy about it, don't forget that every time you shop, you give away the 500+ with interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u104	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u105	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The list of changes introduced in the VAT amendment submitted by the government gives rise to confusion and makes it clear how complex the tax system is. I'll only read nine of the changes I've made here. Fuller VAT neutrality in international transactions, enabling the accountant to pay import tax directly in the tax return to make an adjustment if he did not settle the correct amount of tax in the original declaration. Third, extending the time to benefit from the relief for bad debts and extending the application. Fourth, facilitating VAT deduction on cars used in business, 100% deductions from expenditure by extending the deadline for submitting information on the first expenditure on the vehicle. Fifth, allowing for deduction of VAT after expiry of the deadline for deduction on an ongoing basis, an extension of the number of settlement periods in which the taxable person will be able to deduct by correcting the declaration. Sixth, allowing the possibility to make a concerted statement by the supplier and buyer on the choice of property taxation in a notarial act. Seventh, regulating the release of funds converted from a closed VAT account into so-called the technical account. Eighth, allowing the release of funds from the VAT account if the tax arrears held by the taxpayer have been deferred or spread over instalments. The ninth, allowing the funds collected in the VAT account to be used for the payment of contributions to the KRUS. No wonder people need tax advisors to pay taxes properly. Let us remind you that VAT is harmonised at the level of the European Union, and therefore those principles which we have here, in Poland, are also the subject of international agreements, which means that not only the tax staff of the Ministry of Finance, but also the Eurocrats make sure that we do not get lost in this. However, the three changes that the Ministry had announced and which seemed beneficial to entrepreneurs have disappeared from this project. While these previously mentioned changes seem positive and beneficial to entrepreneurs, using the presence of a representative of the Ministry of Finance sitting in government benches, Minister Sarnowski, I would like to draw attention to these three changes that have disappeared. Thus, it was announced that the obligation to mark invoices and amending invoices should be abolished. The Gazeta Prawna Journal reported that in February, at the press conference, the Deputy Minister emphasized that such requirements are only in three EU countries: France, the Netherlands and Poland, and that they are essentially unnecessary. After all, you have turned your back on this. Second thing. The planned abolition of restrictions on the issuing of collective corrective invoices has also been waived. Originally, the Ministry of Finance announced that taxpayers would be able to issue them not only for whole invoices but also for specific items, which would speed up the process of making aggregate corrections. It's gone, too. The third and last thing I wanted to stress. There was also no change in the project to extend the deadline for the earlier issue of an invoice before the transaction. Now it's 30 days, it's supposed to be 60 days, it's also evaporated from the project. As a Confederation, we ask the question: Why do these, seems (the bell), rational ideas evaporated from the project? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u106	Thank you very much, sir. Who among you and your fellow Members would like to address the question? Do we have Members to ask a question? Here you go, one minute to ask questions and I'm closing the list. Please, Mr Wojciech Saluga, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u107	Minister! Somewhere on the Internet or in the press I read that 34 individual tax interpretations were issued in 2018. I wanted to ask the Minister if we have data for 2019 and 2020 on how many tax interpretations there are. How much does this record count, which is on the Ministry's pages, the record of all interpretations? First of all, you can go crazy, because that's the amount, if that's true... It's just a sign of the instability and complexity of our tax system. Question. There used to be three months to issue an individual interpretation. The COVID regulations have expanded this, if I remember correctly, even up to 9 months. Is it now that the entrepreneur waits until 9 months, or was it just such a margin, and these 3 months, as it was originally, are being kept? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u108	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u109	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In my club speech I emphasized the very large and very significant participation of entrepreneurs who apply to the Ministry of Finance and offer good solutions, facilitations for their direct conduct of business activities. It is very good that these demands have been taken into account in this project. We talked about this at first reading, but today, at second reading, I would like to hear the Minister's assurance and confirmation that it was true that these demands were coming from and coming from entrepreneurs, that the spokesperson for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs showed very much activity here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u110	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u111	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This is a bill that goes in the right direction, but it's not enough, Minister. Today we have such a situation in Poland that there are hundreds of amendments, hundreds of amendments, we have increasingly thicker laws, and entrepreneurs expect something completely different. Entrepreneurs expect clear and short legal provisions to be able to develop their own businesses. This is one element. The second very worrying element is the interpretation of legislation. She is too arbitrary, sometimes you have to wait a long time for this interpretation and unfortunately she is sometimes directed against entrepreneurs. As far as the ease of doing business in Poland is concerned, Poland is still in a very low place. This position of Poland unfortunately falls in recent years. And also data that should bother us as well. The level of investment (The Bell) is the lowest in 25 years. So we should create the conditions for Polish entrepreneurs to want to invest in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u112	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u113	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister Kościński, announcing the Slim VAT 2 package, stated that the solutions contained in the Act were prepared as a response to the demands made by the market. However, this market would be most pleased to see the reduction in VAT rates from 23% to 22% and from 8% to 7%. You followed this promise on the 2015 election banners. When you came to power, the subject quickly disappeared. VAT was not reduced even during the best economic period. It was wrong that the so-called project. The SLIM VAT 2 package has been weight-lossed. I ask you to answer the question: Why have the previously announced simplifications for invoicing disappeared from the novel? Why was this project adopted at a rapid pace on 26 May by the Council of Ministers (The Ring) contrary to the time limit set out in the legislative work list? What's the big rush? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u114	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u115	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The number of entries in the VAT Act is stunning, but the key ones are missing. Well, ladies and gentlemen, SLIM VAT 2 was supposed to improve SLIM VAT 1 but it did not improve because there are no two entries on duplicate in the SLIM VAT Act, on aggregate invoice, on simplifications in registration. In the SLIM VAT Act 2 payments MPP and marking them in a single control file... Invoices which have deferred payment must be adjusted repeatedly, i.e. the taxpayer must sit, correct invoices if he has a distributed payment. That's how you improve business. I ask: Why did you withdraw from key records so important to entrepreneurs? Probably because in order to hinder the life and functioning of companies that honestly want to pay taxes, or because they want to punish them, because the incorrect invoice, which has deferred payment, generates problems and generates penalties for economic operators, and this should not be the case. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u116	Thank you very much, Member. Last question, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u117	Thank you kindly. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Since yesterday, during the committee meeting, the Minister was kind not to honor his presence, I wanted to ask for an answer to two very important questions which appeared in the position of the Polish Bank Association. The first concerns the adaptation of ICT systems. The point is that if the funds are to be allocated to KRUS payments, the transfer should be properly marked. The Polish Bank Association informs and warns that there are no guidelines for how to solve this problem today. I am therefore asking what the Ministry is proposing here. The second question concerns in-minus adjustments for imports of services and intra-Community acquisitions of goods. The question, of course, in intra-Community relations, is: What currency exchange rates should be used for these conversions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u118	Thank you very much. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Jan Sarnowski to answer questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u119	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In the first words, I would like to thank the High House very much for the very warm adoption of this package and for the very kind words about the proposed solutions and the work of the Ministry of Finance. We are pleased to be able to implement these projects together and simply implement the demands that come to us from the market. Indeed, it is a project whose assumptions were prepared jointly on the line by the Ministry of Finance - an SME spokesperson, while while a large part of the proposal was directly influenced by it, they were also notified by the Confederation of Leviatan and the Polish Trade and Distribution Organisation. These are the most active actors in reporting to us the possible directions of action, including those on the simplification of the tax system, for which I would also like to thank the Members most sincerely here in this Chamber. I refer to the comments made by the Polish Bank Association. The Polish Bank Association was consulted on the proposed changes and sent us its comments as part of a pre-consultation. We held meetings and meetings with the Polish Bank Association, and with individual members of the Polish Bank Association. The deadline for adapting the IT systems on the bank's side should not be compromised to any extent. Especially in order to facilitate the adjustment of banking systems to new solutions, we have spread their implementation over time, so that from 1 October the possibility of releasing funds from technical accounts will enter into force, and only 1 January from VAT accounts to KRUS, for payments in this direction. So that it is difficult to see any arguments that would be in favour of making further transfers and further changes in the project. There have been a lot of questions about the elements of the VAT SLIM 2 package communicated by the Ministry of Finance. SLIM VAT 2 is a simplification package, while they do not have to be implemented by one statutory project. Regarding the last question: the designation of MPP on invoices, in JPKs - this element will be implemented by means of a regulation of the Ministry of Finance. The content of this regulation is already visible on the pages of the Government Legislative Centre. This regulation will enter into force from 1 July this year, which means that we will implement this announcement even much earlier than the law which is now being adopted by the High House. With regard to the elements relating to the marking of invoices by duplicates, possibly that the invoice is an adjustment, as regards the aggregate amending invoices and the extension of the deadline for issuing invoices, it is, in view of the fact that this is a project concerning invoicing, to be examined by the Ministry of Finance together with the e-invoicing project. This means that it will end in the coming weeks under the Council of Ministers, but this also means that the legislative path of this project, according to the plan of the Ministry of Finance, will be completed in October this year and the rules will enter into force in January, together with most of the solutions contained in this particular law. So that here there is no danger of accepting these assumptions, they will be realized as we communicated about it in the first quarter of this year, in its entirety. The reason for the rapid adoption by the Council of Ministers of the package discussed today is very good acceptance of its assumptions by the market as part of a pre-consultation which was implemented by the Ministry of Finance. So that it simply cared and we still want these solutions to pass not only the government stage as soon as possible, but also the parliamentary path, and to enter into force as soon as possible, because it will work for the benefit of Polish entrepreneurs. The last question concerned individual interpretations, namely their number in recent years, how much interpretation is in the register and what is the waiting period for such interpretation if the situation of the COVID is taken into account. The Ministry of Finance has such information and answers to this question and other questions that I have not answered here, of course we will give them in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u120	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u121	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Gentlemen of Ministers! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - PSL, UED, Conservatives, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and the Act - Bank Law. At the beginning of 2021, the VAT package, called slim VAT, came into force. It was intended to seal this tax and introduce simplifications for taxpayers. Practice has shown that not everything works as it should, and it has been recognised that further changes are needed. Their aim is to further simplify the tax treatment of goods and services by taxpayers. The VAT sealing tools introduced in recent years, including the PO-PSL government, and the related effects of the fight against VAT fraud, have allowed the verification of VAT clearing arrangements in force in some cases since 2004. Legal, IT and Technological solutions in tax settlements improve taxpayers' clearing and facilitate their verification processes by tax authorities. The introduction of new regulations in the VAT Act is also important from the point of view of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union. The withdrawal agreement sets out a transitional period ending on 31 December 2020. Currently, EU VAT rules do not apply to the UK. Consequently, there are no transactions such as intra-Community supply and intra-Community acquisition of goods and mail order sales between the EU and the United Kingdom. It was therefore considered appropriate to introduce legislative amendments which would clearly indicate how the VAT rules will be applied in relations with the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland after 31 December 2020. High Seym! The new wording of the provisions of the contested law indicates, inter alia, that the fiscus cannot demand interest from an entrepreneur who will show a tax on intra-Community acquisition or import of services only after 3 months. The current limit of 3 months will be abolished. This is the result of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 18 March 2021 in Case C-895/19. Other changes include regulations on taxation of foreign trade, which are to be supplemented by a provision which will allow for a precise assignment of shipping or transport to a specific supply, namely a specific taxable activity. This concerns both intra-Community exports and supplies. Taxpayers who use the VAT import settlement option in the tax return will be able to correct this declaration. Moreover, the flexibility of the use of special VAT accounts by taxable persons using the split payment method is to be increased and another new provision will apply to property taxation. If the taxable person has a choice as to the application of VAT instead of a civil-law tax, he will be able to make the relevant statement to be included in the notarial act. The next amendment involves adapting the institutions so-called. relief for bad debts to EU requirements. The relief for bad debts will also be possible in the case of transactions with customers, i.e. non-business natural persons, and taxable persons exempt from VAT. The amendment proposes an extension of the time limit for the benefit of bad debts to 3 years - now there are 2 years - from the date of issue of the invoice documenting the claim, counting from the end of the year in which the invoice was issued. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The amendment also proposes to amend the provisions of the Act - Bank law, which allows the transfer of funds collected in the VAT account to another VAT account of the holder, even when VAT accounts are assigned to the taxpayer's accounts kept by different banks. At present, such transfers are only possible between the holder's VAT accounts kept in the same bank. The first Slim VAT pilot scheme, which entered into force at the beginning of 2021, responded to market demands and met business expectations. He endured unnecessary and excessive responsibilities hindering his business. In turn, new solutions for the VAT Slim 2 act largely respond to the demands of entrepreneurs in relation to the need to counter the negative socio-economic effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, the Conservatives recommend that the High House adopt an amendment to this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u122	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was tabled to the proposed bill, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Police Act and some other laws (prints Nos 1132 and 1258). I would like to ask Katarzyna Maria Bakerska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u123	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! It was my honor to present the effect of the work of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the government bill amending the Police Act and some other laws from print no. 1132. The report can be found in print No 1258. Ladies and gentlemen! It's such a bill that if it arouses any emotion, it's only positive. It is a project that has been expected for a long time, not only by officers who look after their animals that support them, i.e. dogs and horses, but also, I think, by all people who love animals. The draft law amending the Law on Police and certain other laws proposes regulations on the legal status of animals used in the various departments. The situation is this: dogs and horses are used in the police and border guard service, in the fire department and in the State Security Service - dogs, in the Armed Forces - dogs and horses and in the Prison Service - dogs. Of course, the most animals that are used for service, these four-legged officers, are at the disposal of the police - 915 dogs and 54 horses, Border Guard has 252 dogs and 8 horses, fire department - 25 rescue and service dogs, of which 15 have search specialties. Today, it is actually difficult to imagine the operation of the service, such as the police and the others I have mentioned, without the assistance of these four-legged officers. Even this hall today, before we took our seats, was tested by dogs that are at the disposal of the Marshal's Guard. It was two dogs, one already retired. There will be four dogs at the disposal of the Marshal's Guard. This law, as I mentioned, comprehensively defines the status of an animal on duty: from the moment of selection e.g. a dog for the service, through the time of carrying out tasks in the various departments, until he is withdrawn from the service. Dogs assist officers in ensuring security and peace. Dogs used by the service save lives and health in search operations, help search for drugs or other forms of contraband, and are invaluable in the search for explosives, as well as in the detection of criminals. The history of dogs and horses in the widely understood police services dates back to 1890. The first dog he ever served was called Topper. It was a foxterier, if I remember correctly, and he served in the London Police. The first police dog school was opened in Bavaria. On the other hand, as far as Poland is concerned, in 1913, i.e. before independence, in Krakow there was a doberman who served in the Police. And the first horse police squadron was established in 1920 in Łódź. So it's a pretty long story and, as I said, today it's hard to imagine the operation of the services without the help of a dog. The Act sets out the requirements for the guardian to be entrusted with the care of the animal in the various formations. It also defines very precisely the responsibilities of this caretaker, that is, how he is to take care of this dog, provide him with proper food, proper food, proper condition, proper care. The Act also lays down rules on the feeding of animals on duty, as well as rules on the control of whether this care is properly exercised. The keeper of such an animal will receive board in kind or an appropriate cash equivalent. The bill, as I said, also provides for the withdrawal of animals from the service. It is about regulating the status of withdrawn animals, i.e. how often the media, dog pensions, colloquially define them. It seems to me that animals that have served man throughout their lives deserved to be given the right conditions during the period when they were withdrawn from service when they were old and sick. Animals are withdrawn from service as a result of permanent loss of performance, non-rotational disease, lack of progress in training. The dog can be withdrawn after the age of nine and the horse after the age of 15. The law is very specific about who will be able to be the guardian of an animal withdrawn from service. The principle is that, first of all, what seems right would be the keeper of this animal. It is known that the relationship with such a person is the best, the animal simply knows it. However, it will not always be possible for such a person to take care of the animal, so the law provides exactly who can then become its guardian. If such a person does not find himself, then the caretaker can be a non-governmental organisation aimed at protecting animals, caring for animals. That's a very good solution. It is very good also for a veteran shelter. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a shelter under Poznan that's run by a retired officer, animal keeper. He created this place, but let's not hide it, it's very difficult to run this kind of shelter without any support. After the adoption of this bill, the situation will look completely different. Like I said, it's a government project, but I think if he were to influence it as a parliamentary project, it would be possible to sign it over political club divisions. I think most of them would definitely sign off on this project. Like I said, it's just a good project. It was expected until a long time ago. Amendments were tabled during the committee's work. Most of these amendments, or 49 amendments, are legislative and editorial amendments. There is no doubt about any further amendments. They specify e.g. certain definitions. There is one amendment that is very important. Minister, in this project, you missed our beloved Seym dogs. It's very good that it's been fixed. There is an amendment whereby dogs that are in the state of the Marshal's Guard will also be covered by the Act. The bill has another very good record. The commandant of a given unit will be able to apply for a dog's and horse's pension also to those animals who have completed their service before the entry into force of the Act. I hope that this good solution will benefit from the veteran shelter I mentioned earlier in Poznań. There are 17 such animals there right now. Ladies and gentlemen! Like I said, it's a good project, although it's a government project. Minister, of course, this is a joke. On behalf of my colleagues on the committee, I ask the High House to adopt this law as soon as possible. Four-legged officers and their guardians are waiting for this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u124	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mrs Agata Katarzyna Wojtyszek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u125	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club in relation to the draft law amending the Police Act and some other laws. The bill entered the Sejm on April 29th. On 4 May, your marshal sent him to the Board of Administration and Home Affairs. The first reading was held on 14 June. Law and Justice, as with the rest of the Board of Administration and Home Affairs, fully supports the bill. The draft was discussed in detail in committee and was fully approved by all committee members. The Act regulates the status of animals in services supervised by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, i.e. in the Police, Border Guard, State Fire Department, State Protection Service and animals that work in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland and the Prison Service. Despite significant progress, the development of new technologies, animals continue to play a significant role in assisting officials in carrying out their statutory tasks. It is the animals that provide real support for the officers, and in some cases they are irreplaceable. It was therefore necessary and socially expected to regulate the status of animals in the service. The draft law introduces the possibility of using service dogs or service horses to carry out specific statutory tasks: the protection of life, health and human property, the protection of security and public order, counter-terrorism activities, the detection of crimes and offences, the prosecution of perpetrators, the execution of representational tasks, the assurance of order and security in prisons and detentions and, finally, the protection of facilities established by the Council of Ministers. Currently, in all formations under the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, a total of 1.2 thousand serve. dogs and over 60 horses. Annually around 10% the animals are withdrawn from the service and retire. The solutions proposed in the Act apply to animals from their selection to service, through the duration of the tasks in the various formations until they are withdrawn from service and retired. The draft law sets out the obligations of keepers of animals, including in particular those relating to ensuring the proper maintenance of animals, including: rational feeding and permanent access to clean and fresh water, care for health and condition, care, keeping the animals clean and ensuring conditions of maintenance adapted to biological needs. At the same time, a mechanism has been defined for the allocation by the different formations of animals withdrawn from the use of carers, provided that the animal continues to remain in the state of formation and that the guardian will have priority in taking care, if he so wishes. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Law and Justice fully supports the draft law, which contains ten articles. I want to make an amendment to the article at the same time. 2, which concerns animals working in the Armed Forces. The amendment includes the title that is added as follows: Dogs and horses in the Armed Forces. The amendment sets out the status of animals used in the Armed Forces. It concerns the health care of these animals and training. There are also records on diet and care, including veterinary medicine. The supervision of dogs that work in the Armed Forces is defined. The law we are discussing shall enter into force three months after the date of the announcement. However, the legislator provided for the possibility of implementing the provisions of this law earlier, so that animals withdrawn from the service could be protected even before its entry into force. The adoption of the proposed solutions is the fulfilment of social expectations (The Bell), including the expectations of the officers and soldiers themselves, so I ask the High House to adopt this law over divisions, with full approval. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u126	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u127	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Civil Coalition on the government draft law amending the Police Act and some other laws contained in print no. 1132. The main objective of the project is to regulate the legal status of animals in services supervised by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland and the Prison Service by providing lifelong maintenance and veterinary care for dogs and horses that will remain in the state of the individual also when they switch to the so-called. Retirement. This is the second approach in the current term of office of the Sejm on this issue. The first took place in December 2019. Then the so-called. A small project was introduced on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club by Mrs Katarzyna Piekarska, who has been the rapporteur of the current project. There are approx. 1 000 in the services. dogs and dozens of horses. Annually close to 10% these animals are withdrawn from service. So far, what happens to a dog or a horse after the end of service has usually aroused the most controversy. Every now and then, there was information in the media about sleeping dogs because they weren't ready to take care of them. The draft law provides for arrangements to regulate the situation of animals from the time they are selected, through the duration of the tasks in the various formations, until they are withdrawn from the performance of their duties. The project sets out all the responsibilities that the keeper of the animal is to perform in relation to his four-legged ward. In addition, a mechanism will be clearly defined for the provision by the services of withdrawn animals to carers, provided that the animal continues to remain in formation and that the care provider will have priority in taking over care, if he so consents. Where no entitled person wishes to take custody of an animal, such care shall be carried out within a specific unit or organizational cell of the formation concerned. In addition, it was proposed that an organisational unit should entrust the care of an animal withdrawn from the use of a social organisation whose statutory objective is the protection of animals. During the work in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, the provision was supplemented to include dogs serving in the Marshal's Guard. However, the bill does not provide for solutions to regulate the situation of animals serving in voluntary firefighters. It applies only to rescue dogs owned by a natural person who is a member of an entity incorporated in the national emergency and fire protection system or an entity with which a civil law contract has been concluded. It should also be noted that the rules do not include animals serving in the National Tax Administration. While this service has regulated these matters in a separate regulation, it would be worthwhile to make the records the same for all dogs belonging to these services. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Coalition supports the draft law amending the Police Act and some other laws contained in print No 1132. We believe that it will be adopted beyond political divisions and will be an expression of concern for animals. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u128	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Wiesław Szczepański, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u129	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left, I have the honour to present to the High House our position on the government draft law amending the Police Act and some other laws, print Nos 1132 and 1258. For thousands of years, some animals have served humans. They defended us and our possessions, served for transport purposes. And so it remained until today. In some cases, the ability of a dog cannot be replaced by modern technology. The task of animals serving in uniform services shall be to assist officers in the performance of their duties. They save lives and health. They're used to secure public order, do patrol tasks, track human footprints, detect smells, dangerous charges, drugs, and look for people under rubble. According to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, in March this year. The police served 915 dogs and 54 horses, the Border Guard - 252 dogs and 8 horses, and the State Fire Department served 25 dogs. The maintenance of these animals during the service shall be governed by internal acts. There is no regulation on the handling of animals withdrawn from service. There are no mechanisms to monitor animal welfare, there is no observation, there is no information in this regard. Only in the State Fire Department is there a participation in the cost of maintaining dogs. Unfortunately, after the end of the ministry, some animals were put to sleep and horses were given to slaughter. In March, the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs took note of the situation of animals in uniform services under the Ministry of Home Affairs. The Ministry had already announced this project. I am pleased, Minister, that after less than three months we can debate it today. The project meets social expectations. As we know, the work was carried out in cooperation with all uniformed services. The bill submitted regulates the status of animals serving in uniform services, i.e. Police, Border Guard, State Fire Department, State Security Service, Military Police and Prison Service, from the time of selection of the animal to the time of withdrawal. During the committee's work, dogs serving in the Marshal's Guard were also included in the bill with the approval of the government. There was no acceptance, as my colleague said, which I also regret after talking to both Minister Rzeczkowska and the director of the Department of the Ministry of Finance to include dogs serving in this formation in the provisions of the Act. According to the answer received from the finance department, these cases are governed by an appropriate regulation similar to that law. But it would be worth it if we had all the uniforms in the same bill. Today's Law sets out the requirements to be met by the caretaker of a retired animal. The duties of animal keepers have been defined. The Act also lays down rules on animal nutrition, research and prevention and on the treatment of such animals. It clarifies the cases when the animals are withdrawn from duty. According to the law, animals even withdrawn from service will continue to remain under the care of the formation. Surveillance of the keeper of an animal withdrawn from service has also been established. The care of an animal withdrawn from the service will be given priority to the caretaker, another officer, an individual worker, and in case of lack of interest will be taken care of by an association or animal care foundation. In the event of the death of a carer, care for the animal can be taken over by the caretaker's family if it shows such interest. For these animals carers will receive nutrition benefits in nature, social organisations - equivalent in lump sum form. The reimbursement of the medical expenses will be based on bills from the veterinarian or on medicines purchased. It will be prohibited to reproduce animals in retirement or to use them for commercial purposes. The head of the unit will supervise whether the guardian is taking proper care of the dedicated animal or whether this care is not appropriate. The Board of Administration and Home Affairs unanimously approved the draft law submitted by the Government. My club will vote for it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u130	Thank you very much, sir. The speech on behalf of the Polish Coalition will be presented to the High House by Marek Biernacki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u131	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It was my honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Law on Police and some other laws. These are 1132 and 1258 prints. The main objective of the project is to regulate the legal status of animals in services supervised by the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration of the Armed Forces and the Prison Service. The direction of the changes outlined in the project is undoubtedly correct. In fact, I have to say that this is one of the very few cases where we can say that the government is fully acceptable to us. In general consciousness, it is not noticed that apart from police officers, border guards or firefighters, animals are also guarded by our security. Dogs and police horses, which are necessary for the smooth performance of statutory tasks by the service, are visible when they are on the first line. Then, when age or health no longer allows them to be used, they suddenly disappear from the realm of the rulers. The rulers - because their former caretakers in the vast majority decide to ensure a decent life for pensioners and these animals. This does not, of course, mean that a number of comments cannot be made to the proposed solutions. In principle, it can be considered that the rules for obtaining and using animals - in practice this applies to dogs and horses - are set out in the project sufficiently precisely. The opinions of specialists have been taken into account, who have been dealing with this issue practically since the start of the animal formations in their activities. The possible proposals for amendments are therefore minor. For example, consideration may be given to introducing a provision that would extend the catalogue of persons to whom a person may be entrusted withdrawn from the use of a service dog or a service horse withdrawn from use. It is a question of the possibility that the guardian of a service dog withdrawn from use or of a service horse withdrawn from use may also, in justified cases, be an official of another service using these animals on the same terms as an official of the service in which the animal was used. Animals would remain in the service and care of people who have experience in contact with such pets. Another very important issue, perhaps to be addressed in the future, is the establishment of similar to those provided for in the Law on Animal Rights, which is being discussed, which is being used by municipal and municipal guards, as well as voluntary firefighters, to effectively carry out public order enforcement activities. The problem here would be not so much the wording of the rules - this can be done in a similar way to that adopted for other services - but an indication of the source of financing of the obligation to maintain retired animals. Perhaps consideration should be given to the targeted grant for these purposes. Let me remind you that these are not the only areas where animals are used to ensure public safety. In the future, we should consider a comprehensive solution to this problem, which would address not only the issues I have mentioned. Surely, the adoption of the proposed solutions will be the fulfilment of social expectations, and thus of officers and soldiers, who have a ethical sense of duty to ensure a decent existence for both dogs and horses in the course of their tasks, as well as for retired animals withdrawn from their use in the formations of MSWiA and MON. The coalition Poland, of course, supports this project. Thank you, Minister, for being comprehensive. I know you've tried to expand it even more, but what you could have done, you did, this range has been taken into account, and we thank you for that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u132	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 will present to the High House Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u133	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! A few years ago, the Internet ran through a touching picture from India. A troop of soldiers is saying goodbye to a labrador who has served in this ward for many years and saved the lives of many people who have been buried under earthquakes in buildings. We hear a lot of stories. about animals that have helped heroically in such situations. For many of them it is a daily work requiring training, attention, control over instincts. Their skills and sharp senses are used in the work of uniformed services. Currently, around 1200 dogs and over 60 horses serve in all MSWiA formations, and about 10% each year. these animals are withdrawn from the service and retire. And like humans, these animals deserve a worthy autumn of life, especially since their life is about service, often in risky and difficult conditions. In this context, it is pleased that this draft law on amending the Law on Police and some other laws is intended to ensure that our four-legged old age after serving. This is one of the rare laws for which the law follows life, for needs, to solve problems instead of creating them. It is not often that in such hard areas as areas of operation of the Armed Forces, Police or other formations, the emotional aspect is taken into account. The designer followed the emotions and needs of animals here: attachment to the guide, and if it is lacking, to the person with whom the animal lives. Nor does the Act leave alone animals that have not been adopted after duty. Where no entitled person, e.g. another official or civil servant of a foundation or retired officer will not wish to take over the care of the animal, this care will be carried out within a specific unit or organizational cell of the formation concerned. It will also be possible to pass on a dog or horse to a social organisation, but only one that is legally engaged in the protection of animal rights. The project also provides good conditions for retired quadruples: food, preventive treatments, treatment, the basic standard that they should receive in a civilized country. And yet these 9 years for a dog and 15 years for a horse, because that's the retirement age that defines the rules, sometimes it's only half their lives. When the draft law was still in the process of a government consultation, we asked the opinion of the friendly organizations. Their response was clearly positive, and comments, such as: concerning the annual inspection at the veterinarian's office, they were finally placed in the implementing regulation attached to the project. It was also a good idea to extend the scope of the formation to the Armed Forces and the Prison Service at the stage of government work. Poland 2050 welcomes the bill submitted with great satisfaction. He can count on our support. However, we would like other animals in Poland, not only those working in uniform services, to be treated in a decent and best way. We're still waiting for regulations to release them from behind tight cages, from behind small pens, from behind short chains. The project will improve the existence of thousands of dogs and horses, which will leave the service every year, but let us remember that 10 million animals in Poland are senselessly killed for fur each year, and even more are still waiting for regulations better protecting them from cruelty and bad fate. This bill is a step in the right direction. We will leave few such laws behind in this term of office. But there's still a chance that this Seym will do more on animal rights and that we'll all be remembered for that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u134	Thank you very much, Member. Circle of Polish cases, Mr Paweł Szramka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u135	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The way we treat animals tells us a lot about us. In this law we are talking about special animals, because they very often saved lives, turned out to be invaluable when searching for missing persons, had a direct impact on the improvement of safety levels. I doubt these animals are watching this debate right now. I don't think they have that much awareness of how much they've played in our lives. But we have that awareness. And I think that the appearance of this law in the Sejm, as well as voting for it, will be the best proof of our respect and gratitude for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u136	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u137	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In Chapter 8, Article 8 is replaced by the following: 136 persons, institutions, organisations who may take care of the withdrawn from the use of a service dog or a service horse have been listed. Further details are what conditions must be met in order to ensure the proper maintenance of the animal after service. It's a very good project, but I have a question for the Ministry. Wouldn't it be worth expanding the catalogue of institutions that could be passed on to so-called official horses. Retirement deserved, farm schools? Of course, those that meet the conditions for proper animal welfare and have an appropriate basis. In addition to education - it is about the humane attitude to horses, empathy, sensitivity - young people would have the opportunity to learn rational nutrition, care for the health and condition of horses, care and keeping the animal clean. And above all (the Bell) direct contact with a living being would certainly pay off for the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u138	Thank you. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u139	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, the law concerning the so-called. pensions for dogs used for special purposes is the right step that we support. On the other hand, the question I would like to ask relates to other government proposals relating to the protection of animals which, in my opinion, should appear. Is the government working on issues related to the ban on the use of animals in circuses? Is the government working on issues related to the obligation to identify, chip dogs and create a central register to ensure that the lost animal can easily be found by the owner? The area of animal protection is very important. Today we are dealing with these animals (the bell), which were used, which served the public, while there is still a question of actually clarifying many records that allow us to say that we have animal welfare in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u140	Thank you very much. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u141	Mr Kaczyński, Chairman of the Security Committee. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Finally, a dog who helps people for years, hunts criminals, detects drugs, rescues disasters will have the right to retirement and deserved rest. This is a long-awaited and undoubtedly necessary change. But now that we're talking about animal welfare, where's the rest of the long announced by the president of the governing party? I know he doesn't like people, but he says he loves animals, so: What about the ban on fur breeding, the ban on animals in circuses, the end of ritual torture and killing animals on meat, leaving the dog to torture and keep them chained? What happened to the noisy announcement of an animal five? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u142	Mr Katarzyna Kretkowska, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u143	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Unlike Mrs Claudia Jachira, I assume an optimistic development of events and I assume that this is the first of many, many projects to be submitted individually as five for animals. That's what I wish for all of us. On the other hand, regarding this particular project, I would like to ask whether designers can add all the horses and all the dogs that serve in the service and have not been included in this project. I mean, dogs that serve at airports help customs. I hear customs say they have it in the regulation. But there is a bill, she should regulate the rights of all dogs and horses that perform such, not other tasks. There are also dogs - it's about dog therapy - that serve in hospitals, in care facilities (the bell), also in geriatrics. Finally, there are dogs and horses in the municipal guards. It's good that this bill includes the municipal guards as well. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u144	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u145	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have to say, how did this lockdown end... I'm the one who's gonna get physical, or I'm gonna have a heart attack. I recommend parachute jumps. Minister! About this bill. Of course, the bill is very nice, very good and expected, but in my opinion we are making some mistake, because it should include all dogs, horses and other animals that serve in state services. Customs and the National Tax Administration should also be included. Yes, we learned on the committee that the National Tax Administration has its own rules on these animals. It might as well be that right now the director or director is there someone who loves animals or respects them, and it might be that somebody who doesn't feel that emotion about animals and doesn't care. The public service should be included in a single law, and I would rather seek to ensure that these institutions are there too. [[♪ The bell ♪]] 'Cause maybe there's something about some dogs getting better, the other one getting worse when they find out, maybe the other one going on strike. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Dogs or servants?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u146	Thank you, sir. Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u147	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It is a bill that is expected, which is part of empathy, what we can give to animals that are in the service and often save the lives of us citizens. We talk about dogs, we talk about horses in the service, we talk about institutions where animals perform these functions actually throughout their lives: police, armed forces, other institutions. I would call for the city guards to join us, which also have horses. Some volunteer firefighters also have track dogs at their disposal. But the main point is that, as part of the whole animal care package in the course of the ministry, we should not forget what happens to animals after serving - in the case of dogs after 8 years, in the case of horses after 14 years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There should be more pensions to find suitable places for these animals to continue to live, to live well in retirement, and to be able to take full care of them once they have finished their ministry. It's about monitoring the places animals go. That is also what we would have called on you to do. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u148	Thank you, sir. Mr Andrzej Szewiński, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u149	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am convinced that this novel will be welcomed by all parliamentarians over political divisions. Animals such as dogs and horses that devote their entire lives to service are treated by carers and other officers of uniform formations, such as partners, who in many activities will not replace advanced technologies and who deserve a worthy existence after withdrawal from service. My question is this: Is this law the beginning of some road map in terms of good legislative practices, so that the issue of other dogs covered by the service is secured, not regulated in the form of regulations, but that all of this is simply in one law? And I have no doubt that this will be a good direction. One more question: What is the number of animals that are on the so-called. Retired? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And last question: On a yearly basis, how many measures must be secured for this law to enter into force effectively? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u150	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Monika Rosa, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u151	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are very pleased with this bill and these records, but at the same time we ask, when the ban on animal breeding on fur, when the ban on keeping animals in permanent confinement. But we also have a question about this bill: When or whether other animals on duty will be included, e.g. Dogs in the Rail Guard, dogs in the National Tax Administration? There are about 100 of these dogs in the SOK, mostly wolves. The question, then, is whether such animals will also meet with such systemic protection. And the second point, the question of pseudo-honoring. I wanted to ask you if you're going to somehow control whether the dogs that are used in the service of the state come from normal, healthy, wholesome breedings. Aren't these pseudo-breedings where animals live and reproduce in terrible conditions? We're waiting for the concrete. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u152	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u153	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It is simply a good bill and absolutely should be supported. However, as my previous speakers have already said, I hope that this is the beginning of a certain road, for the animals that serve not only in government institutions but also in local government, for example in the city guards, are very many. It does not seem that there should be a distinction: dogs, horses or other animals that serve in the police, for example, and those that serve in the local government. I'm sure it's a step in the right direction. On the other hand, I would like to ask what amount the government has secured for the current year and for the next year in order to ensure the effective implementation of this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u154	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u155	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! It is time to thank all those from all political groups as well as the Minister for the joint work he has put into this project. The adoption of this law is, of course, our cross-party duty, and I think that no one will argue with such a question. The bipartisan debate and the joint work of Members with the Government must be commendable. However, I have a question for the government: Shouldn't the law cover all animals: dogs and horses working in Polish services? What amount should be guaranteed in 2021 to ensure that this law is implemented successfully? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u156	Thank you. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u157	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, This is an important project, especially since it is built in broad agreement, beyond political divisions, setting certain standards for other public services that use dogs and horses for service. If today this project does not include among others. dogs and horses that function in the service, e.g. In the city guards, we also set certain standards, from which these units can also use. I would like to ask about the cost of implementing this law. The justification for the project is that the cost of withdrawing dogs and horses from the Police is around 2.5 million per year. How much is this going to be in its entirety when it comes to securing this bill? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u158	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Dyduch, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u159	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! When Katarzyna Bakerska sat here a dozen years ago, she filed the Animal Protection Act and demanded that dogs be released from the chain, almost half the room laughed. Today we have great progress in this area in terms of the protection of animals, and for this glory and this House, and the way we think in our country. In the service, however, it is always the case that if something is not regulated, it is a relative freedom of conduct. I would like to know how these problems have been solved so far with regard to the animals that have left the service. On what scale they were sedated, e.g. The horses after finishing this service, and on what scale were the dormant dogs? It's just, was it common practice, or were they under some kind of protection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u160	Thank you. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u161	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As is well known, dogs used in the service, well trained can replace work many people and often turn out to be faster and more effective than localization devices. In the case of firefighters in Poland, these animals serve in the State Fire Service rescue and fire fighting units. We read in the explanatory memorandum that the bill is a response to a sense of ethical duty to ensure a decent existence for animals withdrawn from use. Why, then, are there no arrangements for regulating the situation of all dogs serving in voluntary fire brigades, but only dogs in those units that are included in the national emergency and emergency systems? From an ethical point of view, it would be advisable for all dogs (the bell) to be treated equally. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u162	Thank you very much, Member. And last question, Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u163	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask you, perhaps, what my colleague was just saying, that it should be well understood and that those who are to be covered by this law, this regulation, should also be able to know this clearly. It's about the status of dogs. As for the State Fire Department, it is known that this bill is regulated in this draft law, but as for the TSOs it is not explicitly written down. Should it be considered that a contract dog is also a dog that serves at the TSO? I would very much ask the Minister to answer that question. And, of course, horses have been called several times. Here, too, I would like to ask and how to highlight what the previous speakers said: Shouldn't the horses in the city guard also be covered by this regulation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u164	Thank you very much, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I would like to ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration of Minister Błażej Pogoda for an answer to the questions of the ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u165	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you all very much for the constructive discussion at first reading in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, and also for this debate today, for all the questions, suggestions, all the votes. Thank you very much for this. I would also like to thank you very much for this - I clearly welcome this fact - that this most important, crucial and perhaps only substantive amendment was the initiative to include our dogs in the Marshal's Guard. I'm going to say right away: we were just waiting for an amendment like this and it's good that she showed up. Please note that the original project concerned only animals serving in the formations of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, and I will talk about it in a moment. And first of all, I would like to thank you for the fact that at first reading our draft law on amending the Police Act and some other laws was adopted unanimously. Indeed, it is rare that a government representative has the pleasure of hearing so many good words about the government's submission, because everyone actually supported this project and expressed it not only in their speeches but also in the vote, for which I thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! The task of the animals in the service shall be to assist the officers in carrying out their statutory tasks. Indeed, despite significant progress and the development of new technologies, animals continue to play an important, crucial role, providing real support for officers, and in some cases they are irreplaceable. They assist in the implementation of tasks related to the conservation of human health and life in search operations, carry out detection activities related to the search for perpetrators of crime or victims of those crimes, carry out preventive measures for the detection of dangerous substances. Finally, as we should also remember, they play an important ceremonial role during various official public ceremonies. In the assessment of the management of the Ministry of Interior and Administration, the existing arrangements regarding the situation of animals in uniform formations were and are still insufficient. That is why, a few months ago, we decided to start working on comprehensive regulation of the status of animals used in the uniform services of the Ministry of Interior and Administration, both for animals used to support the implementation of statutory tasks and those - because from the beginning this idea has been guiding us - out of the service. With great satisfaction and unhindered joy, we have observed how in the subsequent stages of legislative work and even earlier - when we announced in the Ministry's first press conference that we had started such work - our proposal was accompanied by further formations. Let me remind you, the first version only concerned the regulation of the status of animals in the services of the Ministry of Interior and Administration. Each further formation aroused our great joy and satisfaction. This was complemented by what happened at the last committee meeting when, as I said, the amendment included dogs serving in the Marshal's Guard. It has been said in almost all speeches that dogs and horses serve in the Police, Border Guard, the Armed Forces, and dogs in the State Protection Service, the Prison Service and the Marshal's Guard. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it clear - because this thread did not appear here, but I think it is good for it to sound out of this speaker - that this project will not exclude the application of the provisions of the Animal Protection Act. He complements it by referring to animals used for special purposes. According to Art. 4 point 20 of the said Animal Protection Act, by means of animals used for special purposes, means animals whose professional training and use are carried out on the basis of separate provisions governing the detailed rules of operation of the services and the rules of training and use of dogs. However, so far there has been a lack of separate rules - they are being introduced by this law. All the existing regulations were scattered, were in lower order acts, such as internal decisions or regulations, and in principle ignored the situation of animals after withdrawal from the service, from the use in formations. Our project proposes solutions to regulate the situation of animals from the time they are selected for service, throughout the duration of this service, until they are withdrawn from the formations. However, the Article will continue to apply, for example. 15 Animal Protection Act, laying down rules for the handling of animals used for special purposes. Ladies and gentlemen! To briefly discuss the main objectives of the project, it should be pointed out that it sets out the conditions to be met by the keeper to whom the animal is assigned in the various formations; the responsibilities of the keepers of animals; the rules for feeding animals; the rules for the treatment and financing of animals; the rules for dealing with emergency situations in which animal health or life is at risk; and, finally, the cases of withdrawal from the use of animals in the various formations; a very detailed mechanism for entrusting keepers of animals withdrawn from service - assuming, and this is a key change, that they will always remain in the state and under the care of the formation in which they have served so far. This is because one of the basic deficits of earlier, these barely residual internal regulations in the various departments concerned supervision. Now this law also lays down the rules for the supervision of the various formations of how this care for the entrusted animals withdrawn from service is exercised. Therefore, in the context of this surveillance and other issues which I have mentioned, it should be pointed out that this project is complementary to the arrangements adopted in the Animal Protection Act. Already at a very preliminary stage, even before the work on the committee, the question arose as to what happened to the animals that had previously been removed from the service. I would like to say that all such voices coming from external, internal stakeholders, from the services themselves and all the demands - we ourselves felt the need - were included in this project. The first reading was of a consistent and concerted nature, because we, in the quotes of the amendments, have already taken into account at that stage. We have just decided that, in cases justified by the welfare of animals at the request of the guardian, the commanders of certain services and formations will also be able to include those provisions also animals which were withdrawn from the service prior to the entry into force of this law. This is a key issue, especially for such institutions and social organisations, whose aim is to protect animals, as mentioned by among others. rapporteur, this organisation, this shelter, this asylum we have been talking about. Let me now refer to the conclusions and questions that have been raised by you. Firstly, thank you very much for the votes that clearly support and declare support for this law. There were several issues that were common in nature, so let me treat them and discuss them more problematicly, and I will not refer to individual questions, because most of them repeated, they were slightly different, but they really dealt with the same aspects. The first such thread, which was scrolling, was about customs and treasure. There were questions as to why this situation was not regulated. First of all, I would like to remind you once again that this was an initial project for animals used in the services of the Ministry of Interior and Administration. As I said, we were happy to accept further formations that joined our project: armed forces, prison service. On the other hand, with regard to the customs and treasury service, this thread was explained in detail by me and by representatives of the Ministry of Finance already at the committee meeting. According to Art. 64 of the National Tax Administration Act, which defines the situation of official animals used in customs and treasury checks, regulates their status and the conditions under which they remain under the care of carers by means of a regulation. This was the will, and this was the position of a specific department to maintain the rules in this way. The second thread that appeared was why the project did not include municipal guards. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, According to Art. 2 Municipal Guards Act may be set up by the municipal council and may be dissolved by the same body. It is not possible to impose additional financial obligations on municipalities, especially in the context of their optional tasks. It is the organizational unit of the municipality. The costs associated with the operation of the guard are covered by the budget of the municipality, which is mentioned in the article. 5th Municipal Guard Act. It would therefore be difficult for us to impose permanent obligations on the municipal authorities. But - I would join such an appeal - let us, from this House today, after our submission, come up with a proposal that individual local governments should regulate this matter on their own. I think that today we have the opportunity to set a good example and if individual local governments want to follow these solutions, it will be very good. Also, there was often a thread about dogs that are not owned by the State Fire Department and are not in state, on duty, and are used for rescue operations. Indeed, all contract dogs will be covered by these provisions. On the other hand, only those - and that is, in my opinion, natural in the case of such a nature of the provisions - which we propose - are permanently carrying out the tasks referred to in the Act. Ladies and gentlemen, to questions which were more individual in nature concerning funding, because this issue has also appeared several times, I answer. Funding will be within the limits in force for each formation. We have assurances - after all, this project was constantly developed with the support, with the voice of all formations, both those subordinate to the MSWiA and the others - that all services are aware that it will burden their budgets (the bell) and it is, I think, an honest situation. When someone decides to include an additional animal, they take on this cost. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to stress once again that this project meets the social expectations, expectations of the officers themselves, but not just them. All these expectations, I think, have their origin in the sense of our common ethical duty to ensure a decent existence for the animals in the service and to withdraw from the service. In view of the above, I am counting on the support of the countries that we are proposing. I believe, as I mentioned at the first reading of the project during the committee's work, that, due to social but also political acceptance, the project governing the status of animals in the services will be adopted beyond political divisions and will be an expression of our concern for the smaller brothers. Let us remember that the measure of our humanity is our attitude toward animals. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u166	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you. I imagine that the rapporteur, Mrs Bakerska, will want to take the floor by answering questions raised by ladies and gentlemen. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u167	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, the Minister has already answered all the questions that have been asked. On the other hand, I have such a reflection that if there were other projects, too, Minister, honourable Members, in principle MEPs, from the governing coalition, we would work in such substance and respect for each other as we worked in the committee, and this committee, at which the draft was submitted, but also earlier, at the committee meeting on 23 March, which was convened at my request when the Minister presented the assumptions for this project, it would probably be better for this House. I, too, thank you for this debate. A very interesting topic has been raised by Mrs Rosa, namely the raising of dogs. Minister! I have a request that the services that will do this actually make sure that the dogs that go to the officers are of model breeding, so that they are not the so-called ones. pseudohospitals. It's just hard to even call breeding, because it's animal production, where animals just suffer. I have a request to make sure of that. Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u168	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 on the agenda: Report of the Health Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Agency for Medical Research and some other laws (prints no. 1259 and 1296). I kindly ask Mrs Anna April to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u169	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the High House, in print No. 1296, to the Committee on Health on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Agency for Medical Research and certain other laws, in print No. 1259. Yesterday, a meeting of the Health Committee was held at which the draft was examined. In the course of the work, the committee tabled eight amendments, three of which were positive and five were rejected. Therefore, I kindly ask the High Chamber, the High Sejm, to adopt the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u170	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice will be spoken by Mrs Catherine Czochar.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u171	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the government draft law amending the Act on the Agency for Medical Research and some other laws, Parliamentary printing No. 1259. The proposed amendments to the Act of 21 February 2019 on the Agency for Medical Research cover the scope of the package of solutions against the negative social, economic and health effects of COVID-19. The proposed changes concern inter alia. extending the Agency's activities to include research experiments, support by the Agency, in addition to clinical trials, also new research experiments and clarification of the rules on the functioning of the Agency, whose previous application has hindered the smooth performance of the tasks established by the Agency. Expanding the Agency's tasks to support innovative activities in health care by providing funding for research experiments will be important in obtaining new health solutions that increase, among other things, the development of health solutions. the possibility of preventing the spread of the COVID-19 epidemic. The proposed solution will provide financial support from the Agency not only for clinical trials but also for research experiments, which can significantly stimulate this type of activity and thus contribute to the introduction of new health solutions. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would also like to stress from this point of view that the proposed amendments to the above-mentioned amendments. the laws have been repeatedly raised by representatives of the medical community as a request to extend the subject of the Agency's tasks also to support innovative health care activities in the case of a research experiment. The proposed amendment is also in line with the direction of the policy on innovation in health care, for which a strategic reference is adopted by the government by the State's drug policy. The draft law is not contrary to European Union law and does not require the competent authorities and institutions of the European Union, including the European Central Bank, to be presented in order to obtain an opinion or to agree on a project. The proposed law will also have a positive impact on the development of innovative solutions in large enterprises. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes the above-mentioned opinion. The bill and recommends its adoption. Mrs. Marshal! I would also like to make six amendments on behalf of the parliamentary club. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u172	Thank you very much, Member. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will address Mr Rajmund Miller.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u173	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club - Civic Platform, I have the honour to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the government's draft law amending the Act on the Agency for Medical Research and some other laws. There are assumptions to expand the agency's operation and scope, which was established just two years ago, but we really don't have any work results today, even though it's been a year and a half and the funds transferred were big. The justification for what my previous speaker has put forward is the impact of these studies which are intended, on the economy, on health, on various other areas of public life in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, the agreement on the objectives is that the details are in the records. First of all, if you examine the opinion of BAS, the opinion of BAS is critical of the provisions of this law. Firstly, it cannot be that experts will be appointed not on the basis of the Public Procurement Act, but on their own. We don't get an explanation that there are no experts on the market. The second case in which we have reservations. Why will the same expert who will advise on the accuracy of the research data also monitor this research? These are the main concerns. The others will be told by Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, who will complete my statement, because we also have many other doubts about the provisions of this law. Ladies and gentlemen, it is my honor to present two amendments to this bill to your marshal. Okay, thank you very much. On the other hand, how we will vote on all this depends on whether the amendments will be adopted and whether the reservations that we have will be clarified concerning also the non-compliance of certain provisions with European Union rules will be explained. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u174	Thank you, sir. Ms Elżbieta Gelert will speak in the second part of the coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u175	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Our doubts are also raised by a record of medical experiments. There's not yet a law on clinical trials. It has been so widely mentioned, in fact for several years it has been said that there will be an uprising, and we are already leading to clinical trials that are not regulated by law, we are adding medical experiments. And that raises our big doubts. We would ask you to answer that question. And another very big doubt. At the meeting of the Health Committee, you said that after all, NIK examined the activities of the agency, which turned out to be correct. Financially, everything fits. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, financially in each establishment, it will fit if you examine the plan after the corrections. If adjustments are made in due course, then there are no problems, then everything is as planned. On the other hand, I would like to point out that the previous colleague said that this is the money that comes from the National Health Fund, ladies and gentlemen. And freezing now unspent money from the National Health Fund is very detrimental to patients, especially patients. These are our contributions, so we would ask you very much to tell us why this money is to be frozen. It seems to me that this is the result of the NIK study, where for 2020, ladies and gentlemen, the agency had 83 million extras, i.e. it didn't spend 83 million, because it was just the first year of activity, as is explained. If she doesn't spend any more in the years to come, why is it that the money that can be spent on treatment is properly frozen and remains in the agency? Another issue that we find very difficult to agree with, so we would also ask for a reason, is why we are allowed to spend money on the agency's investment. What does that mean? What exactly is this investment about? We did not get an answer from you at the Health Committee meeting on which investments were involved. Will this change not actually result in the Agency being the main consumer of research funds? And as my colleague said, we ask you very much to answer these questions, Minister. Our approach to our amendments will condition our position on the draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u176	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Marek Rutka, on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u177	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Health shouldn't have a price. The pandemic caused by the COVID-19 virus, which we have been fighting for 1.5 years, is the best example of this. The battalion for the recovery of the whole society should be conducted in a thoughtful, systematic manner. Unfortunately, this systemality, when we talk about health issues, is often lacking. The actions are scattered around many ministries, institutions, agencies. Their actions are very often uncoordinated. On the one hand, this reduces the effectiveness of the measures taken, and on the other hand increases the costs of these actions. The Agency for Medical Research is a useful institution and it is definitely worth developing. Question: "Are all the proposed changes moving in the right direction?" An example of this is the provision in the article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 8. This provision confers on the President of the Agency the right to single-member, arbitrary examination of appeals and protests. Therefore, at first reading, the Left Club tabled an amendment which obliges the President of the Agency to make a decision in the event of a protest after consulting the Council. The aim of the amendment was to increase the democratisation of the whole process and certainly to increase the transparency of the decisions taken. Unfortunately, the votes of the ruling majority were rejected. Hence the question: Why is the United Right concerned that the President should not make decisions on a one-man basis in an arbitrary manner? There is a lot of money at stake, a lot of public funding, and experience teaches that one-man decisions on financial matters may raise a number of reservations, or at least doubt, not to say: suspicion. The Agency announced last year the selection of proposals for an epidemic situation related to COVID-19 in the framework of non-commercial clinical trials. R &amp; D concerns, inter alia, research and development. development, as we read in the announcement, of an effective vaccine on COVID-19. You might add: a national vaccine. On this occasion, I would like to stop with this vaccine for a moment and with this whole project. The Agency's total budget was PLN 1036 million. This budget has been allocated to 87 projects. So that's 12 million PLN per project. It's not much, but it's public money. We're saying it's not much on a unit basis. And now I will refer to the costs that have been incurred or what governments have incurred to develop effective, already working and implemented vaccines against COVID-19. The US budget spent 2.2 billion dollars - we are talking about the budget itself, not commercial companies - that is over 8.5 billion PLN. Let me remind you: the Agency's total budget is 1 billion. On the other hand, if we count all the expenses that the governments of the United States, Germany and the United Kingdom have incurred, i.e. those countries that have developed and registered effective vaccines, we are talking about the amount of PLN 22 billion. These amounts are much different, of course more impressive than the Agency's entire budget. Here, it is worth focusing on the fact that these public funds, not so large but nevertheless significant, are spent properly. We have experience with, for example, the project of building Polish electric cars, which already had about 1 million cars on our roads. It turned out that ElectroMobility Poland, which was so proud to announce that we would have a Polish electric car... Polish - it is only a name, because it is a common work of engineers from Germany, Italy, while as far as Poland is concerned, money and brand remained. And the question is, isn't this vaccine from Poland just a vial? This is the situation with spending money, which is also included in the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber. The Left Club, of course, is not against the functioning of the Medical Research Agency, but will take the final decision (the Bell) when we find out how the parliamentary majority will approach those amendments that we have tabled. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u178	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition, Mr Dariusz Klimczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u179	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Medical Research Agency is a relatively new institution, but in general, it has a good opinion, it is well assessed. Today are the proposed amendments, the amendment of the law. I believe that this is my philosophy of action, that such changes must be made, that the functioning of the institutions must be assessed, and that this should be done quickly if, of course, this affects the improvement in terms of tasks and the organisation itself. I believe that the possibility of obtaining financial support not only for clinical trials, including non-commercial ones, but also for research experiments is a good move. I am thinking about it - we talked about it in committee and my predecessors spoke about it - that it is extremely important to define the research experiment and get an opinion on compliance with European law. I do not like the voluntary introduction in the selection of experts, in general what you are proposing, this voluntaryness, the indication of those whom you think are right, who will cooperate with the agency. In general, this choice of experts reminds me of the selection of experts from the committee of Mr Macierewicz. I would not like to see such a phenomenon happen in such a serious institution, all the more so because we know very many other institutions, including local authorities, where experts are selected and there is no problem in the official publication of calls and the conduct of the competition procedure in public procurement, the more so that public procurement law is really very flexible and can be used, and then we are transparent. All the more so with such a specialized and so specific institution, which requires great security, and the more that we spend money on its activities with great difficulty, and we would all like, not only in this House, but in society as a whole, to have proper control over the spending of this money. To confirm my words is the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office, which in the first words does not leave a dry thread and it is difficult to discuss with it at all. With regard to the so-called. non-extinguishment, it is entitled to state that in such a specialised institution, where everything should be precisely planned, it is difficult to introduce rules on the use of funds from a write-down not used in a given calendar year. Especially since there really isn't much money, so spending it should be planned very precisely and in detail. A separate thread is the whole second part of the bill, why it is introduced at this moment. The Minister tried to defend her thesis and argue that at the moment This is very necessary, but I think we should raise the standards of legislation in Parliament. If there is a need to standardise the right to pursue professions and other regulations that concern nurses, physiotherapists, diagnostics, etc., etc., then we should just do so. It doesn't make any difference if we did it in another legislative act. These are our comments and on the amendments adopted, answers to the questions asked and doubts depend on our club decision. We believe that from the very beginning it was possible to improve the amendment of this law, the unnecessary issues of the state you are violating the image of this new, fairly well-evaluated institution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u180	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke will speak on behalf of the Confederacy Circle. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u181	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We're talking about a medical research agency that can and should perform very important functions, because research is very important. Research must be based on scientific patterns, conducted according to a scientific method, it is not, I understand, transmission from political decisions and then explaining to people why politicians were right or wrong, just to be research. I share the concern of the highly venerable Member Klimczak that the selection of experts may be what we already had not only with Antoni Macierewicz, but also in other institutions where PiS is ruled and where very strange people were employed. And here, unfortunately, there is no other solution but to believe in the integrity of the people who do it, assuming that it is not done on a political line, or on a local government line, that I will say so professionally, who is also right. The most important thing is that it's research, so it's objective, which is why. I can't imagine that in a scientific institution half the researchers aren't, let's say, prosthetics, and half the anti-vaccine. If the results are to be sufficiently objective and can be influenced, you have to hire people from every direction. I remind you that in time Einstein was given a book signed by all German physicists that the theory of relativity is wrong, but he said that he is one and he is right. Well, the fact that most people at the moment have one theory doesn't mean that they're right. It's supposed to be research, I repeat once again, from which this research is supposed to result in a certain objective truth. On the other hand, I would not embarrass this institution in one matter. There is already a loose situation that you can move funds from one year to another. But, High Izbo, in scientific research, what we spend our money on is important, and annual censorship is meaningless. What's the agency supposed to do, who's spent about a million dollars out there, and for some reason this year, it can't, and that money needs to be spent on rape. This money must be left to the agency to spend next year, and maybe on this project, and perhaps there will be some more important issue, for example. Instead of vaccines on COVID, a cure for COVID will appear and you will need to be studied, which is much more important, e.g. A cure for COVID. So that in this respect I would have confidence in this company, because I remember, I was translating Barry Goldwater's book, the famous Arizona senator in the 1950s, who described what happened in America, when you had to give back unspent money every year. What were they doing? At the end of the year, an oak door was made, and it was replaced to spend the money, because if it doesn't come out, then it won't get in the next year. So this year should have only the reporting importance, but should not be any barrier to changing decisions, moving decisions, extending decisions, the year should not be any, I repeat, any censorship in this type of scientific work. Ladies and gentlemen, research, I repeat, scientific. Here there were such opinions that these experts would certainly be good experts, because there are objective criteria and if objective criteria, they would be good experts. Ladies and gentlemen, the biggest smart guys meet objective criteria, they do what they need to do to meet these criteria, and then they may not know anything, they can only do one thing: they can meet objective criteria. That is why we need to have confidence in the head of this agency, to give it the best possible chance that he, when answering to people, can choose experts who are unfettered by some artificial requirements. However, it must then be accounted for with results. For, as the Scriptures say, by their fruits you will know them. I wish the agency the best. The fact that he wants to do research experiments is very right, very right. If only under this coat there would be some special programs under which the current political party would feed. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u182	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Wojciech Maximowicz, on behalf of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u183	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We never make perfect rules despite our utmost will. Each law therefore requires periodic verification on grounds of reason. Also the one about the Medical Research Agency, as you can see from the government's submission, needs improvement, additions. There are a number of voices raised concerning particular points in total in these two articles, because precisely in this law, in this project only two articles concern the Agency for Medical Research - to be clear. Of course, they were discussed, they certainly require caution. I believe that, in general, they aim to extend the Agency's ability to function well. There are, of course, issues that would raise doubts from our experience about the tender procedure, e.g. Calling someone who really isn't that easy to get. It was argued. So there are some things that may also be further imperfect, but as far as the research experiment is concerned, this is of course completely understandable, regulated in Polish legislation in the doctor's profession law, described, defined. When it comes to caring not to get worse than in Europe, it is precisely that it should not be worse at all than in the world, so that we can open ourselves up to it here. The thing that raises the most doubts, however, is that, all of a sudden, several articles appeared in the Act on the Medical Research Agency - a total of nine articles... [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Seven, seven.]] ...seven articles not relating under any circumstances to the Agency for Medical Research. This is reflected in the extension of the title: and in other laws. Happily, this applies to health care issues at all, not to other matters entirely, but also to difficult, so difficult, i.e. It's not hard anymore... This simply concerns the powers of professional authorities in the medical profession. The issue of the right to pursue a medical profession is one of the basic tasks of the medical profession authorities described legally earlier. The Public Documents Act, passed more than 2.5 years ago, was published early enough, entered into force with a semi-annual vacatio legis, in some aspects longer, so that it could be well prepared and made an appropriate amendment, but appropriate, not glued to it. This is really very inconclusive in the legislative way, unfortunately it is rather a matter of bureaucratic imperfections and such a mistake that none of the reasons for the emergency mode were glued to this law - probably because it is a matter in the same department, and not for any other reason - such records. The worst part is that no opinion has been obtained from any of the medical professions that have been deprived of certain powers. The minister, as it is written, can - I stress: maybe, what is legally important - give permission. This is much worse than it has been for 32 years. In 1989, the Medical Chambers Act, as a result of which I co-created work as secretary of the General Medical Council, opened up such opportunities. The self-government was respected, people were respected. At the moment it is nothing more than mixing inability with arrogance towards hundreds of thousands of Polish doctors, nurses, physiotherapists, laboratory diagnostics. It really shouldn't have happened. It is a pity that this is happening because there was indeed an opportunity to respect it once again. However, in view of the fact that we believe that this should not be the case, I wanted to present to your marshal an amendment to the circle concerning the deletion of these articles, which I also proposed at the committee meeting. I think it would be better for the applicants, the inventors to work through this and to proceed in a completely different way to agree with the local authorities without actually removing them from their tasks. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u184	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Polish Parliamentary Circle, Mr Andrzej Sosnierz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u185	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As part of the discussion on the Act on the Medical Research Agency, I wanted to refer to a more general matter. We are discussing better or worse detailed solutions at the moment, and some of them seem really useful in themselves. On the other hand, I wanted to address a more fundamental matter related to the Agency for Medical Research. In this way, we are discussing how to divide something not quite legally acquired and whether it is shared fairly or less fairly. There are various proverbs about this: stolen does not fatten, etc. I wanted to address a point. It's about how the medical research agency is financed. She's created, she's functioning, someone's going to say she's useful, she's got good opinions, and so on. The Agency for Medical Research is financed primarily from the money that insurance collects for their treatment, for medical benefits. It's the National Health Fund. Every now and then, there are voices that are missing from this or another patient's treatment. If these or other benefits are not financed, let us be aware that several hundred million zlotys intended for the treatment of patients without their compliance - of course the Sejm as a representative of these patients legalized it - is not intended for their treatment, but for medical research and experiments. This is the original sin. By the way, even in the case of a useful agency, this should not be the case. We're doing public fundraisers for the treatment of this or another child, a patient, all of which consist, and we've taken several hundred million zlotys to fund the treatment of patients, and we've dedicated them to experiments and medical research. This should be financed from completely different resources, from the state budget, possibly from other institutions. This should not be the responsibility of the Minister of Health. The beneficiaries are different, they can be satisfied. If they get this money, they'll even give good feedback. It's just the source. The devil is in the details. You have already made a fundamental mistake in the creation of this agency, and that is why we will not be able to divide the spoils - because this is what it looks like - to put your hand, even if the divided loot is used for useful things. We will therefore oppose any action related to the Agency for Medical Research until the issue of its funding is resolved. This should be from the state budget, not from patients. I'm sure there's a few hundred million zlotys missing from patients' treatment. About Polish cases will be against any activities related to this agency until this case is dealt with honestly. I am already overlooking what Mr Maksimowicz said. He said that this law again proposed solutions completely unrelated to its subject, but this is a small thing. The main problem is the one I mentioned. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u186	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. Mr Szczerba, the Civic Coalition, will be asked as the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u187	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The topic is extremely important because it is about PLN 213 million per year. These are the funds from our health contributions. These funds derive from the budget of the Agency for Medical Research, which means that the funds for health care are being reduced. PLN 213 million per year is twice as much as the budget of the Polish Academy of Sciences. Ladies and gentlemen! What are medical research? First of all, it's about the big money. It is said that the Medical Research Agency is the child of Minister Szumowski. Today is Father's Day, so it must also be the son, or co-worker, Mr. Sierpiński, who became the president of this agency. This amendment is primarily intended to make the spending of these measures even more transparent. You want to exclude from public procurement the choice (the bell) of external experts to evaluate proposals. You also want to limit the possibility of protesting against the results of the competitions. Finally, you want to expand your research experiments on medical experiments on humans... Thank you very much. ...also in the form of private-public ventures, which are very dangerous. Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, Civic Coalition. Thank you very much, sir. We're gonna apply for an anti-corruption shield. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u188	Mrs Elżbieta Gelert. You're welcome. [[I'm sorry.]] Let's stick to our time, ladies and gentlemen. Okay? [[Good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u189	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would very much ask for a specific answer. It is about indicating what own investments are in the agency. In this draft law, it is stated that funds from the special subsidy are allowed for the Agency's research-related investments, but also for its own and current costs. Please indicate the investments involved. Ladies and gentlemen, just a few times ago it has been emphasized that it is the money of the National Health Fund, the contribution money. They can't be behind because they're not being used. We're short of money for treatment. [[Applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u190	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Dariusz Joński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u191	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! In 2019 Minister Szumowski established a Medical Research Agency with a budget of up to PLN 1 billion. His boss was his former advisor, Mr. Sierpiński. When Mr Szczerba and I knocked on the door of this agency in 2020, it turned out that Minister Szumowski's brother, who invested in one company, became a shareholder of another. He applied and 18 days later this company received a grant of PLN 1 million. When all this came out, the deal wasn't signed, even though the company won the contest. How are we supposed to trust you? Now the Act on the Agency for Medical Research is added that the application of the Public Procurement Act is excluded in relation to the involvement of experts in the evaluation of applications for funding. Few who do not receive funding will not be able to appeal against this decision. Is this the private company of Minister Szumowski and PiS who will be giving out billions of zlotys to the right and left? What the hell is that? You also want to do experiments on people. I'm also asking about these experiments. I'd like to hear from the Minister what exactly the experiments are about. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u192	Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u193	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a typical situation. The idea of increasing the medical research agency's powers is very good. We are waiting for innovative technologies, for progress. We have very capable, ambitious scientists at our disposal, and even in some places a good laboratory base. This is the future, such as the Fund for Reconstruction. However, there is no law on medical experiments and research, so the more important is the role of experts who are to be employed on the basis of arbitrary decisions of the President rather than the tender. They will decide what they like and what they don't, and perhaps taking into account political or even religious aspects, they will also supervise, after an opinion, investment expenditure, e.g. for fixed assets, intangible assets and legal assets. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The role of these arbitrary experts will be very important.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u194	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u195	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the explanatory memorandum of the bill, we read: The proposed solution will make it possible to obtain financial support from the agency not only for clinical trials but also for research experiments, which can significantly stimulate this type of activity and thus contribute to the introduction of new health solutions. Would it not be possible for the Agency for Medical Research to impose tasks related to the creation of vaccine and medicines on COVID-19 to be delayed by 2 years, a manifestation of megalomania of power, an example of propaganda of success at all costs, without taking into account economic factors? If Poland has the ambition of being a vaccine producer, there is a much simpler method than starting research from scratch. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u196	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u197	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill extends the scope of activities of the Medical Research Agency. The objective is right, but the provisions of the bill presented are very bad, even corrupt. It's just sharing the loot. The law was critical of the Sejm Analysis Office. The law does not include any fuses and financial security of public funds, and those funds that flow widely from the NFZ are a huge amount: PLN 1036 million for 87 projects, i.e. for one project there are 12 million. Just live not to die. And those decisions on these measures may be taken on the basis of paragraph. Article 8 19, by your one-man president. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Agency will appoint experts who will not have to meet any criteria, simply with nice eyes. These and others, all these records give rise, ladies and gentlemen, to a lot of abuse, even though the goal is right. Is that what this is about? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u198	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Dyduch, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u199	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! When democratic Poland was formed, we sold many elements of Polish industry, including the pharmaceutical industry, to the left and right. There was no imagination, no expectation that a pandemic such as the COVID would explode, and that you would have to buy these drugs abroad or from other manufacturers. There was no imagination, no wonder where we'd get the medication, like it was. The state of war, like there was a war. That's all we've wasted. And here's my first question: could the agency rebuild certain sectors related to the health system, including the pharmaceutical industry? And second question. Research, medical experiments always... I'm not talking about finance anymore, but there may also be abuse of individuals. Is there a system of control over how these tests are conducted (the Bell), not just about spending funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u200	Thank you. Mrs Anna Ewa Cicholska, Law and Justice. [[In writing.]] Oh, it's in writing. I'm so sorry. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u201	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we are against the reduction of our contributions, our medical treatment and their transfer to the Medical Research Agency, all the more so because they are to be further spent without respecting the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, i.e. passed on to colleagues. I have a question. The 2020 plan - this is about the project, among others. on the part of the Ministry, the own project of the Agency for Medical Research - are included the development of a vaccine for SARS-CoV-2, participation in Polish scientific centres and the development of a new generation of recombinant vaccines. And I'm like, "What's going on here? What are the achievements of this agency? How much money has been spent on this? I would ask you to demonstrate what the money for which the budget for 2021 is intended for this agency. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I remind you that the entire budget of this agency is as much as PLN 470 million. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u202	Thank you very much. Magdalena Łośko, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u203	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The project concerns the extension of the tasks of the Medical Research Agency to support innovative activities in health care. I would like to remind you that in February this year. together with a group of Members, we asked the Ministry of Health whether it intends to reimburse treatment abroad in the case of oncology and rare diseases, when the treatments available in Poland will not save the patient's health or life. The health resort then informed us that it does not see the possibility of such a refund, but wants to develop and spread knowledge about it. I would like to stress that the government will not help patients with leaflets funded by the state budget, with radio broadcasts. So I ask you to answer the question, when Poles and Poles will gain access to the refunded, innovative, modern, saving human life treatment available abroad. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u204	Thank you very much. Mr Konrad Berkowicz, near the Confederation. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u205	I would like to point out that all these laws are gmeraning in a system that has no chance of working well. He's out of competition. The genetic error of this system is that the money is allocated to hospitals in advance. Hospitals already have this money and do not have to compete for money that would follow the patient, the quality of services and the efficiency of the use of these funds. As a result, most of this money is just wasted. The more you add to the health system, the more you waste. It's time to remove the commune from health care, as well as to remove the commune from food in Poland. As the commune was in food, they were big queues, just like today in health care, and a small, to say the least, choice of assortment - just like today in health care. We need to get rid of the commune in health care, and then we'll have a chance at a normal health system. At this point, It's like having the fat guy's morbidly fat bell and powdering his nose instead of losing weight to save his health and life. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Don't let him eat so much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u206	Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u207	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The amendment of the Act on the Agency for Medical Research provides for the possibility of financing research experiments, as provided for in the description of the Act, to allocate between 20% and 40% appropriations resulting from a write-off from the NFZ. And did you simulate this write-down in the context of today's NFZ contribution? Has a simulation been carried out on what is mentioned in the Polish Load document, i.e. an increase in health contributions? How much will it be then, and for what will it be provided in the agency? The second thing is to help people, families who are in a difficult situation, and who are fighting, for example, young children, with a disease like SMA. Here, parents do everything (the bell), collect money with the help of the foundation. They must have 5 million zlotys to save their own child. You're on the sidelines. The state is looking at this situation and not helping. Is there hope that this will change? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u208	Thank you. Mrs Anna April, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u209	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Agency for Medical Research was established to better exploit in Poland the potential of medical and scientific research on health, especially in the field of non-commercial clinical trials, which accounted for 2% before the establishment of the Agency. all recorded tests. That's a really small percentage compared to other countries. In comparison, in Western European countries, this figure is around 40%. The Agency's objective is to increase the proportion of non-commercial clinical trials to at least 30%. Therefore, the agency must function efficiently - this is what the amendment of this law is for - without unnecessary restrictions, to which (the bell) belongs among others. failure to use funds in the following year when the appropriations have not been used in the current year. I therefore ask the Minister to re-present the arguments in favour of remaining so-called. non-extinguishables, i.e. funds that have not been used in a given year and which can be used in the following year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u210	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u211	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! For the money spent on science we say: yes, for the money spent on research we say: yes, but for the money to be spent by the Agency for Medical Research, the money from the NFZ, which the agency wants to spend without any procedure, without any tender, without any supervision, we say firmly: no. We want to know and be able to check what money has been spent on, what experts you are calling and what these experts are qualified for. Second question: medical experiment. Please inform whether the provisions in the proposed law concerning experiments are in line with EU legislation, with European Union law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u212	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Rutka, Lewis Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u213	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In view of the negative effects of the spread of the COVID-19 epidemic, all measures to stimulate the competitiveness and innovation of the pharmaceutical industry are crucial. So I have a question: Does the Medical Research Agency plan to strengthen the development potential of the Polish pharmaceutical industry? Polish companies are a European tycoon in the production of active substances. It is worth noting that in the first phase of the outbreak of Coronavirus in spring ub. The largest manufacturers of active substances in the world, China and India, have halted the export of components to the manufacture of medicines and only thanks to Polish pharmaceutical companies did the supply of medicines not break down. in respirator therapy. Instead of spending money on developing a Polish vaccine on COVID-19, let us develop what we do well in Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u214	Thank you. Mr Paweł Szramka, Polish Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u215	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My colleague from the Polish Circle of Posel, Mr Andrzej Sośnierz, spoke about the fact that the agency's resources come from our health contributions. I am not convinced that Poles agree with this state of affairs. Therefore, I ask the government to answer the question: Is there a way to change the funding of this agency so that the resources for its activities do not come from the health budget? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u216	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Ms Anna Goławska, will answer the questions raised by the ladies and gentlemen of the House. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u217	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed law aims to improve and make the work of the Medical Research Agency more flexible, which - as has been done many times here - is a very important institution in terms of the development of health sciences, the development of pharmaceutical companies or the development of modern treatments for the treatment of diseases which are very complicated, rare and which have not been invented so far. The comments made regarding the selection of experts are not entirely correct given that this procedure is already described on the websites. It is not so that the failure to apply the law - Public procurement law causes experts to be chosen in a secret, unclear or uncategorized manner. There are rules, criteria for the selection of experts. Anyone who meets the requirements laid down by the Agency for Medical Research may make themselves known and participate in the selection, evaluation, project clearance or analysis work. Such rules apply not only to experts selected in the Agency for Medical Research, but also for example. in the case of European measures for which the Public Procurement Law is not applicable and is open to recruitment, the criteria are defined, the committee shall assess whether the experts meet the requirements, a list of these experts shall be drawn up and these experts shall then be publicly selected for the evaluation of the projects. In addition, experts sign statements of impartiality each time, before each project which they get to evaluate, so there is no risk that someone may not be impartial or unfair to carry out assessments. Issues concerning medical experiments are governed by the Pharmaceutical Law Act and the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist. Already today, there are laws that tell us how to conduct clinical trials or medical experiments. They are primarily intended to serve the treatment, the use of modern treatment in people who suffer from very complicated diseases, rare diseases. Here we also place emphasis on cardiac and oncology diseases. This is often a chance to save lives for those for whom adequate treatment has not yet been invented. I would also like to address immediately the issue of financing the activities of the Medical Research Agency from the contribution, from a write-off from the National Health Fund. Well, these drugs also treat patients, so we can't say that we're taking care of patients. The rules on the funding of the Agency have already been adopted and, as I understand it, the Members have also voted when we have examined the Act on the Agency for Medical Research, in this respect we are not currently making any change. The only change with regard to funding is to make spending by the Medical Research Agency more flexible. The point is that the funds are spent on six-year projects. Projects are implemented by individual beneficiaries of these measures, and simply situations may occur where, for various objective reasons, project schedules will be shifted over time, they will change. They can move, change during the year. Therefore, instead of putting money into the budget, we propose that we move it to the next year, so that these projects can be fully implemented and will not have to be implemented at the expense of the next initiatives that are planned, included in the budget of the Medical Research Agency. Such a solution is adopted, for example, with regard to European measures, which also do not need to be reimbursed at the end of the year in case of non-expenditure. I would like to add that it is very important that these funds must be spent on the specific purpose for which they were originally allocated. The Agency will not be able to change the purpose of spending, and therefore the original objectives, the original objectives, are retained. Only in justified cases where the beneficiaries fail to fulfil their tasks will the appropriations be transferred to the following year. The funds for investment in the Medical Research Agency will be allocated through a targeted grant, i.e. a strict target for spending these funds. These funds come from the state budget, not from a write-off from the National Health Fund. In order for the Medical Research Agency to function efficiently, it must have information systems or computer equipment. This is the means to finance the basic functions of the Medical Research Agency, as is the case with any other institution that operates and has to bear expenditure on equipment or related to the operation of workers under normal conditions. As regards the other provisions on the right to pursue a profession, I stress that all professional authorities are in constant contact with us and are aware of the changes being made. They are the result of the provisions of the Public Documents Act which state as issuer the documents of the Minister of Health. Until now, local authorities have been the issuer, which decide to grant the right to pursue the profession and also issue the right to pursue the profession. It's always been their own job. We would like this task to be carried out in exactly the same way, so that the provision reflects the proposal that the Minister of Health should be able to authorise a specific professional body to issue a document of the right to pursue a profession in accordance with the requirements set out in the Public Documents Act. This is so important that these documents will be issued as early as 1 January and must comply with the requirements set out in the Act, mainly due to the lack of possibility of forgery or misuse by wrong persons. [[There are no questions, Your Marshal.]] [[Spoken free.]] I will now address the issue of protests that may be submitted concerning the results of the evaluation. Well, protests will be made in case of a negative assessment of the application for research funding. This is aimed at eliminating situations when someone appeals, for example. that he was given too little money. This is a commonly used procedure, that there is a protest in case of a negative evaluation of the project. It will not be considered as a single person, it may be withdrawn in order to be evaluated by the evaluation committee of the projects. Question about SMA treatment. Firstly, a competition on rare diseases and psychiatry and neurology is planned, so you will be able to apply for SMA treatment. On the other hand, medicines are already being refunded today that allow treatment for these people. The treatment is subject to approximately 700 people who are diagnosed with this disease. So it is not true that the treatment of SMA patients is not financed at the moment. Reiterating the role of the Agency for Medical Research in the development of drug therapies, innovative medicines and innovative treatment therapies, the Agency should be supported as much as possible, especially as it is highly evaluated. Nobody's report showed any abnormalities. [[He did.]] The NIK report does not only verify the financial analysis but also verify all procedures that are used in the Agency. It should therefore be stressed that the projects are selected in a fair, transparent, objective manner, in accordance with the procedures adopted which are described on the website, in the competition documentation by persons who are impartial in the process, have no connection with the applicants. [[Voice from the room: But please answer the questions.]] [[Voice from the room: Please answer the questions.]] [[But the Minister's answer is yes.]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[Voice from the room: Answers questions.]] [[I don't think you understand.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please. [[Voice from the room: She didn't answer any questions.]] [[I don't think you understand.]] Minister, finish up. One minute and 40 seconds left. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Anna Goławska: Yes, so once again, I would like to stress that issues concerning clinical trials and medical experiments are already regulated in legislation today, so research and experiments are carried out in accordance with these regulations. There is a direct procedure, who and under what conditions may carry them out. The opinion of the bioethical committee is also necessary, so everything is implemented in accordance with rules and regulations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u218	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. [[About the formal issue.]] But I'm sorry, the minister didn't mention any names, so I don't see the mode... [[Voice from the room: She did it on purpose.]] No, but... I'm sorry... [[I can't?]] ...in what mode? [[In formal mode...]] But, I'm sorry, in what mode? [[It's in the rules room. About the formal issue.]] Well, give it to me, 'cause I don't know one. No name has been mentioned. Ladies and gentlemen, the project will still be examined in committee... [[Exactly.]] ...and there will always be a chance to ask. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u219	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The government bill amending the Act on the Medical Research Agency is a good project. I listened attentively to the club's opinion. Will these changes improve its activities and improve the quality of research related to the effects of COVID-19? Thank you. [[But your marshal, I asked you a simple question. Answer me.]] [[The Minister replied as she deemed appropriate and had 15 minutes to do so.]] [[Voice from the room: Why ask questions if we don't get answers?]] [[We're gonna process...]] [[Voice from the room: Excuse me...]] [[No, my fellow Member. No.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Marshal, please...]] [[Madam President, the debate is closed. As at the time of the second reading, amendments were submitted to the bill submitted...]] [[I asked you exactly about the COVID vaccine.]] [[Mrs... Madame, you are making it difficult for us to proceed. It never happened. I am surprised, Madame, by your behaviour.]] [[I'm sorry, ma'am.]] [[Since during the second reading...]] [[Excuse me, your marshal, me, your marshal?]] [[Mrs... we are surprised at each other, but I am the one in charge of the proceedings.]] [[You know perfectly well that...]] [[As it was reported during the second reading...]] [[We sit, we prepare...]] [[...to the proposed amendment act, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Health Committee in order to present a report.]] [[If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer.]] [[I can't hear you objecting.]] [[We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Legislative Commission on the draft law amending the Law on political parties (Prints Nos 1231 and 1256).]] [[I kindly ask Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk to submit a report to the committee.]] [[I don't know why we're asking these questions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u220	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present a report by the Legislative Commission on the draft law amending the Law on political parties, print no.1231. The Legislative Commission carried out the first reading of the draft law at its meeting on 11 June and discussed it at its meeting on 22 June. The Commission calls for this proposal to be adopted. I would like to stress that the draft amendment to the law on political parties concerns the elimination of records which reveal the address of residence of persons entitled to represent political parties. During the committee work at the meeting on 22 June, two amendments were tabled by the representative of the party, Mrs Mucha, which went beyond the draft amendments tabled. The Legal Bureau's opinion was negative as the scope of the amendments was not the area resulting from the draft amendment. The amendments were therefore rejected. The Member has reported them as minority proposals. We therefore ask that the High House adopt the proposed amendment following amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u221	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented to the High House by Mr Kazimierz Smolinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u222	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the club Law and Justice towards the parliamentary draft amendment of the law on political parties, print no. 1231. High Seym! The law on political parties is from 1997 and in some respects does not agree to the current legal status. Therefore, the Members of the applicant claimed that the Article should be amended. 18 of this law, which provides for the disclosure of the political party's records, which is absolutely necessary, while the elements of this disclosure go too far. This record shall be made public in respect of the addresses of persons who are part of the party authorities and persons who are entitled to enter into property obligations on behalf of the party, as well as addresses on the lists of persons who are founders, support the establishment of the party. Therefore, the project interferes with this law and deletes the possibility of disclosure of this data. We already have completely new EU rules on the protection of personal data, and in these years our national laws have also changed very much, therefore the law, whether the draft law in a slightly modified form compared to the original, still contains three articles in the report of the Committee on Printing No. 1256. Art. 1 covers the details to be included in the records; so far they have been in the Regulation and there was no legal basis for such data to be included in the records. The scope of information, which is included in the records, has therefore been detailed. However, it is important to amend the article. 18. This is the change that says that the records, together with the texts of the statutes of the party, are public, excluding information on the addresses of natural persons' residence, both those of the persons who are members of the competent authorities, as well as the persons reporting the lot to the register. It also amended the provision which explicitly states that the public information contained in the records is to be made available in the Public Information Bulletin of the Court, where, according to the lawyers, there was indeed no legal basis before, and therefore the project was supplemented. According to the club Law and Justice deserves support and we will support it, because we believe that these changes are necessary to protect those personal data that should not be disclosed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u223	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, Civic Coalition. Please state your position.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u224	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As Mr Mularczyk has put it, the bill does not cause controversy in that it meets certain expectations, because it is not only that the issue of the transparency of the addresses of the residence of persons who are entitled to represent political parties and to enter into commitments is regulated, and let us remember that these are also those who do not have to be public persons who do not have to be active politicians at the same time, so this is a change whose direction is good, and that there are also some issues of order concerning transparency concerning the publication of documents concerning political parties. Thus, the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club does not object to the bill presented. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u225	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic on behalf of the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u226	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Publicity and honesty. We need transparency and honesty in public life like the proverbial worm. The level of social trust is dramatically low in Poland, lower than the European average. We are already seeing negative social capital, negative trust in increasing corruption and clientalism. Statistical Pole assumes lack of goodwill on the part of the state institutions and on the side of its representatives. We don't trust you, we don't trust Parliament, we don't trust the parties. I don't know if you're reading Fukuyama or Rothstein, maybe even Sztopka, I don't know if in the progressive lack of trust, generalized, institutionalized, you're seeing the crisis of the fundamentals of democracy, but you're certainly looking at the results of public opinion polls and you're watching reports from Polish streets where the shouts directed towards politicians, especially the politicians of the ruling party, point to a low social capital of trust, and from frustration only a step towards escalating violence. Last year's CBOS survey on social trust showed that 3/4 of society believes that relations with other people should be very cautious. Interestingly, the most distrustful of others is your electorate, and people with left-wing views have the greatest confidence in others. I know that you prey on the distrust of your electorate, but Poland is part of Europe and longs for what Kapuściński once described so beautifully - for Europe, a world without smartness, rudeness, rudeness and hostile mistrust. Your right-wing electorate also misses this European standard. It was visible here, in this Chamber today, when you lost the vote, because Members wanted full information about Mr Obejtek's interests. You see an upcoming electoral defeat, because Poles are tired of being patrons and filling their families and friends with Rabbit companies of the State Treasury and all supervisory boards. You have suffered a propaganda defeat because neither the rude tirades in the plenary room nor all the media so-called. public have not been able to feel even more citizens for the institutions you hate. More than twice as many Poles trust the European Union than the Polish parliament. The Ombudsman also trusts nearly twice as many Poles as the parliament. People are laughing... But, Member, let's get to the point. We're talking about a specific bill, really. [[It's not the project.]] Mrs. Marshal! I have the right to speak on behalf of the Left Club. No, you have the right to refer to the bill. People laugh at this miserable case of Mr. Bielan's, who chose the Left Messenger's office as his party's seat. Paradoxically, then, it is a good thing that you want the addresses of key political parties to be classified, because this will end this grumpy practice of searching for poles, but it is not enough to eliminate records generating abuse and combinationism, because access to information about the state, parties and ways of managing common property needs to be extended, not limited. [[What are you talking about?]] I put together an appropriate bill on behalf of the Left. All you have to do is start proceding it. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: I think you took the wrong card with you.]] Further projects brought by the social side are waiting in the seym freezers. The law on political parties needs to be changed in many respects. The parties must not be trampolines for preying on public property. The parties can't be mafia. Here I remind you of a lost trial with Prof. Sadurski, who diagnosed the PiS-style of party politics. The Left wants to continue to process this project and wants to extend it to include provisions that guarantee that Poles will be able to trust their country, their parliament, the other man back, and that is why we need transparency and honesty, because without it another million will leave the country, and the last will put out the light on this waste of frustration, hatred and treating another man as a potential source of evil and pestilence. Mr Mularczyk! Let's do this. You've already shown good will at the Legislative Commission meeting. Now it's time for you to accept the opposition's or the Left's remarks, including the minority's conclusions. Let there be something good for you, though one thing done for the good of the country and for transparency, not for the good of party colleagues. Thank you. [[What was that? Where's the corrections?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u227	Madam President, sometimes it is worth reading the bill and referring to it. Mr Dariusz Kurzawa on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Polska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u228	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives to present our position on amending the law on political parties, print Nos 1231 and 1256. In this law we modify in particular Article. 17 by the addition of Article. 17a detailing the issues relating to the records. It goes on, among other things. the name of the lot, the date of establishment, the symbols, the names and addresses of the founders and representatives and other relevant information. The amendment consists primarily of the inclusion in the article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 record of disclosure of the said records, excluding information on the addresses of natural persons' residence. It's for the mouth. 3 we add paragraph. 3a on the disclosure of information in the Public Information Bulletin of the Court. In our view, the proposed amendments to the Act are justified. Sensitive personal data to which the address of residence belongs is undoubtedly protected in many proceedings and documents. The same principle should also apply to the law on political parties. The widespread availability of address data on the Internet is dangerous and poses a major threat to private policy and its closest. There is also legislative dualism. Members and senators are protected in this area in the mandate implementation law and in the second, i.e. about political parties, this protection is gone. The change eliminates this contradiction. The argument on the brutalisation of public life, also cited in the explanatory memorandum, is correct, but I would like to remind you shyly that this brutalisation has occurred in particular in the last 5 years through public media and some of the most important people in our policy. However, the proposed amendments to this law are necessary and useful and supported by many legislators. Therefore, my team Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives supports these changes and will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u229	Thank you, sir. Mrs Joanna Mucha, on behalf of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u230	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I go on to discuss this project, the project in print no.1231, I will allow myself a few words of introduction. I would be grateful, Your Marshal, if you hadn't censored my speech because I have the right to formulate it in any way. Please don't censor me. Just remember, it's not a parliamentary statement, it's a club appearance. I remember that very well, Marshal. I have five minutes to speak freely on this subject. But this time is ticking, so focus on the speech. Thank you very much. You're welcome. We have many problems in Poland today, e.g. drought. Today, farmers are talking about how tragic things are about to happen. Service says the woods will start burning for a while. We have inflation that just means expensive to people. For President Glapiński it is not important what he emphasizes every time in his speech. We have a housing problem. We have a problem with the care of seniors, the care of independents. We have a problem with violence. We have a problem with the care of seniors, the care of independents. We have a problem with violence. We have a problem with the lack of public services at the level corresponding to our development and our aspirations. Queues to the doctor threaten human life. There are schools, kindergartens, daycare and all those places you need to help. We've got to work on that. It would be possible to multiply the topics that the Polish Sejm should deal with for a long time. I could list for 5 minutes only those topics that the Polish Sejm should deal with. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Then report the drafts of the bill.]] Meanwhile, we deal with the addresses of those who form political parties. [[You've been in charge for eight years.]] Eight years we ruled and introduced Poland to a completely different level of civilization. I wanted to remind you that you were in charge for two years and after two years. The Poles thanked you. Meanwhile, we deal with the addresses of politicians. I don't know, I think this government just needs to fill in the seym time, the time when we're sitting, any, completely any topic. Let us assume that we would take this subject seriously, that we would like to improve something in these political parties. We have therefore tabled amendments. The first amendment states that, in addition to the financial statements, it should also submit substantive reports on the activities of political parties. The second amendment deals with the possibility of remote decision-making as it is now possible for associations and foundations. But Mr Mularczyk, who was working on this bill, apparently thought that if something was invented outside of the PiS, it was this. It's just thought crime. Mr. Speaker! I suggest you freshen up Orwell's reading, because you're really getting close not only to these characters, but to their caricatures. We will vote in favour of this bill, but we find it outrageous that the Sejm deals with topics that are so irrelevant to people when important topics are not addressed. Thank you. [[It's important they're done, too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u231	Mr Krystian Kaminski, on behalf of the Circle of the Posel Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u232	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First, I would like to draw attention to certain puriozums. With such a small project, every club and circle has 5 minutes, and with international agreements, for example, with a defence cooperation agreement with the United States - only 3 minutes. This is an absurd situation, and I think we should rethink the procedure of procedure, the mode of discussion of such things and determine what priorities we have. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: He speaks well.]] [[Get to the point.]] Let's get to the point. I've been getting to the point from the start. This parliamentary bill to amend the law on political parties is uncontroversial, because what would be controversial. And I'm sure that's how it's gonna be passed. However, what we really need is systemic change, and these Laws and Justices cannot prepare because our ossified political system needs to be changed. We do not have, as this country often defines, a democracy, but we have a party oligarchy, where the presidents of individual parties determine who gets the one and who is to become an MEP. Our electoral rights need to be changed so that real Members who work in their well-known districts can have the possibility that they will be elected without having to suck up to the President of their party. It would definitely make life easier for all of us. In addition, as regards the area of funding for political parties, funding for, for example, parliamentary offices, why it is so that the Member is increasingly dependent on his party. Because it is the parties that get huge subsidies, and the Members in the offices don't even have the money to order expertise to hire experts in their respective fields. After all, Members work in important committees, as if I were working in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, local government, and it would be appropriate for the appropriate money to be earmarked for each Member to have expert expertise in the field. And that's what the money is for. If you don't know what to finance it with, it's very simple, let's cut the subsidies and give it to experts and experts. Because Poles expect us not to express their emotions, but to work for them in substance. What if there is no money to hire experts and to order expertise? Such changes are expected by voters and such changes will be prepared by the Confederation, and if chosen, it will also introduce them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u233	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Bosak in the second part of the speech of the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u234	High Seym! Mrs. Marshal! My previous speaker, Mr Krystian Kamiński, rightly pointed out that we have a shortage of resources in Polish policy for expert work. This is defined in the law on political parties, but I think it's quite easy to understand why it is. The answer lies in the dislike of the project, which we presented five years ago, and jointly and severally all political parties were frightened, they took water in their mouths. It was a project about financing Polish politics and activities in the public debate from abroad. Today, mainstream political parties from PiS through Platform to Left, PSL are working for money from German political foundations, doing joint projects, and so-called. Right with the Konrad Adenauer Foundation, the left has the right foundations, liberals - liberal, so-called centers. You don't seem to mind in any way. You were making a big deal about Mrs. Ludmila Kozłowska, that she was being financed from abroad, that she would organize Polish Majdan. But she was getting the money legally. Why? Because you have never decided to change the law in such a way that someone's subversive activity in Poland cannot be financed. Spy activity, if someone brings money in a suitcase, is forbidden, but if someone transfers it directly to Mrs. Kozłowska's fund, it's completely legal. That's why you don't want it to be financed by an expert political fund for political parties, because you've got them from somewhere else. And as for these issues that we are discussing today, the deletion of publications of private addresses, politicians, is a matter of course. It just shows how anachronistic the law on political parties is. Let me remind you that they were in a great hurry to revise the electoral code. The political party laws haven't been moved. This bill is in many places completely unmatched to the present day. She's kind of a legal relic. We should make a round table of political parties, write this bill from the beginning. See how political parties should act modernly in the 21st century, where at the moment a whole range of tools that are used today, related to the Internet, with financial constraints. But you don't care about it, because you finance everything if not from the Polish National Foundation (the bell), it's from companies of the Treasury, it's from the Prime Minister's firm. Thank you very much. You're wasting taxpayers' money, and the anachronistic law doesn't bother you, just to protect your addresses... Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. High Izbo... Mr President, Mr President, time has passed... ...you're changing one recipe.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u235	Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u236	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to ask the representatives of the government, actually the State Election Commission. The question is related to the Political Party Act. Maybe if you could, even though the question isn't easy... Can political parties in accordance with the law have property? At the moment there are various types of government programs, e.g. Photovoltaics. In order to install photovoltaics on a political party building, can a political party receive funding that other entities receive to install photovoltaics on buildings owned by a political party? I stress that this is not a business activity. Because if this were to be an economic activity, it is automatically a reason not to receive subsidies from the state budget. [[♪ The bell ♪]] 'Cause it's forbidden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u237	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u238	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! After this amendment, the records and the texts of the statutes of political parties will be public, while the addresses of the party leaders will not be public. I understand that each political group takes care of its own interests, but Members of this House should first of all take care of the interests of the voters and then take care of their own interests. Secretizing the addresses of the party authorities whose presidents can destroy the lives of millions of people with their decisions should, in my opinion, take place in the second place, after secreting the addresses of members of associations, foundations and, above all, entrepreneurs whose taxes are financed by the party's activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u239	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Dyduch, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u240	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Today we have such a situation that the political parties that have entered Parliament are financed by the state budget. Members of the Confederation said that we should allocate money to experts rather than to other activities. We can settle this. I suggest that 50% grants to those political parties that are in the Sejm could go to elections and 50% could go to elections. leave for the education of politicians, to educate them in terms of expertise, their knowledge, their political culture, because today, in fact, political parties that are in the Sejm - and that is the difference, because they differ in this way, have preferences - finance their choices from state resources. Let's change that and invest in politicians. Let's invest in a better quality policy making, because that's the essence. And this amendment, this amendment, is needed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I wouldn't underestimate her, because today, politics is a state, a profession of higher risk, because politics can be spit out whenever you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u241	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u242	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, I have absolutely no comments on this bill, but I have this general question about lawmaking, because we already hear in this Chamber today that there are other proposals for changes to the law on political parties. Indeed, it is quite odd that we are here having a half-hour discussion and discussions at committee meetings to change one article. If there are already any ideas in public or parliamentary space regarding other changes under the same law, it seems reasonable to refrain from this law and adopt one... Do not amend one law at each meeting of the Sejm. I would like to ask what this looks like on the part of the government and on the part of the Legislative Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u243	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I assume that Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk will be happy to answer the questions as rapporteur for the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u244	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm an applicant's representative. The majority of the discussions that took place here concerned completely different issues, not the draft law. It was a parliamentary project, it wasn't a government project. As I understand it, each club that participates in this debate has the right to prepare the amendments it considers appropriate. We are open to discussion, also about the law on political parties. Each club has an opportunity. As for those amendments that we had discussed earlier, Mrs Flies, unfortunately, these amendments were tabled for submission, which concerned a completely different, incidental problem. I think this case just needs to be settled. On the other hand, when it comes to larger, broader amendments, we are open. Please submit proposals for draft laws or amendments to the laws. We'll discuss them. Today, of course, it is very easy to argue that something needs to be changed, but please just prepare specific draft laws and then we will be able to talk about them. I would like to thank all the clubs for their declaration of support for this initiative, which is of course incidental. This appears to be a necessary and necessary amendment, taking into account, for example, the issue of far-reaching solutions when it comes to the personal data of our citizens. I believe that this matter should be settled as soon as possible. Thank you for your support, thank you for your discussion and I would like to stress that we are open to discuss further changes to the law on political parties. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u245	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report of the Extraordinary Commission on the bill submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the law - Civil Code (prints no. 1125 and 1218). I kindly ask Mr Grzegorz Lorek to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u246	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications about the draft law on the amendment of the law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland - Civil Code, print Nos 1125 and 1218. Marshal of the Sejm at the 30th meeting of the Sejm on 20 May 2021 pursuant to Article. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications for consideration. On 9 June 2021, the Extraordinary Commission considered the above-mentioned draft. Laws. During the committee's work discussions were held and amendments were tabled. I would like to remind you that the project provides for the addition in the Civil Code of provisions according to which the immediate family of the victim, who, for example, As a result of an accident, he suffered permanent injury, and he will be entitled to compensation for a breach of his family relationship. Over the past years, the case law of the general courts has formed a dominant position that such harm is to be rectified by payment of an appropriate amount of compensation. This position has been confirmed by the case law of the Supreme Court. In line with this direction, the court may grant compensation for harm to the nearest victim who has suffered severe and lasting injury as a result of an illegal act. In judicial practice, however, cases where the actions of the immediate members of the family of the victim for payment of compensation for the break-up of the family can be legally dismissed. Such decisions are justified by the fact that compensation for broken family ties cannot be investigated or based on Article. 448 Civil Code, as they do not constitute a classic personal property within the meaning of Article. 23 Civil Code, neither on the basis of Article. 446 § 4 of the Civil Code, since this provision applies only to cases of injury and subsequent death of the injured person. The apparent discrepancy and the change in the direction of resolving very important social claims are not desirable from the point of view of the principles of a democratic rule of law implementing the principle of social justice and the principle of trust in the State and its law. It is right to pay compensation when the nearest family member has suffered serious injury to his health resulting in the inability to establish or continue his family relationship. High Izbo! The Extraordinary Commission for Codification Changes after considering the draft law at its meeting on 9 June 2021 requests the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. Thank you. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u247	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Grzegorz Lorek on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u248	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the bill submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland to amend the Civil Code Act, print No 1125. The project provides for the addition in the Civil Code of records according to which the immediate family of the victim, which, for example, As a result of an accident, he suffered permanent injury, and he will be entitled to compensation for a breach of his family relationship. In the event of severe and permanent injury or health disorder resulting in the inability to establish or continue a family relationship, the court may grant the immediate members of the injured family an adequate amount of compensation for the injury suffered. The need for changes, as set out in the report, is due to differences in judicial case law. The revealed discrepancy and the change in the direction of the settlement of very important social claims is not desirable from the point of view of the principles of a democratic rule of law implementing the principle of social justice and the principle of trust in the State and its law. It is right to pay compensation when the next family member suffers serious injury to his health resulting in the inability to establish or continue his family relationship. The presidential project meets social expectations. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice strongly recommend the abovementioned. The bill's draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u249	Thank you very much. Now I would like to ask Barbara Dolniak, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member. Out of habit, I was gonna say marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u250	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This draft law is a consequence of the legal gap that we have faced in the event of compensation of money for severe and permanent damage to the body or causing a health upset. In judicial practice, in many cases both the common courts and the Supreme Court considered that we are dealing with the personal good referred to in Article. 23 The Civil Code, and they judged, if they had accepted the basis for it, to make amends in cash, on the basis of the article. 23 Civil Codes in conjunction with Article. 448 Civil Code. However, there were judgments of both the general courts and the Supreme Court, including the last resolution of the Supreme Court, taken in the composition of seven judges, which indicated that there was no legal basis for redress in the particular case to which the bill in question relates, and this resulted in the dismissal of the action. Such a situation of divergence is unacceptable to the citizen, because it creates legal uncertainty, a situation in which the citizen is not sure how the court will settle a specific case in which he claims money, in this case a claim for compensation. The first President of the Supreme Court, Professor Małgorzata Gersdorf, pointed to the existence of a legal gap already in 2018. It was there that the issue of money compensation in the event of severe and permanent injury or the creation of a health disorder requires regulation. This bill will fill the legal gap, once passed by the Sejm and the Senate, and will allow, as in the case of the article. 446 Thus, this proposal will allow for the elimination of any doubt concerning the legal basis and the ruling of courts, both universal and Supreme Courts, where, of course, the conditions resulting from this provision are met, in order to ensure adequate monetary redress in extremely traumatic situations. Indeed, there is no doubt that the situations referred to in this bill are extremely difficult for both the injured person and the nearest family members of the injured person. We're talking about a posttraumatic coma or a vegetative state of a family member, but also about, for example. damage to the child during childbirth, resulting in a lack of possibility to establish a family relationship. Of course, we are talking about situations that are unambiguous. There can be no doubt here that this may apply to temporary and temporary situations. No, the rule is unambiguous and speaks of severe and permanent damage to the body or health disorder resulting in the inability to establish or continue a family relationship. All these conditions, which are mentioned in the provision, must exist in order for the court to decide on the appropriate redress, and in the adoption of this law a legal gap will be filled and there will no longer be any doubt which provision should be applied in a specific situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u251	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan, the Left Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u252	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Left Club on the presidential draft print bill No. 1125 and the report of the committee on the work on the print project No. 1218. On the day of the accident, Catherine J. was 17 years old, a high school student. A friend who ran Renault Megane lost control of him and crashed into a tree and died a week later. He had morphine and amphetamines in his blood. The girls haven't been tested because of her severe condition. She suffered extensive injuries, and the doctors assessed her condition as vegetative. Since then, it requires 24/7 care in every aspect of its life, and the chances of improvement are low. Edith B. from the moment of the traffic accident which caused her severe brain injury has been in a state of deep blackout, in a vegetative state. There is no possibility of making contact with her, she has been incapacitated completely, and with the current state of medical knowledge it is not possible to improve her health. On the day of the accident, she was 34, married, mother of a 6-year-old son. She worked as a doctor, a dermatologist, a doctor's degree. He's the only child of his parents. A young mother who raises children three and four years of age alone because of a medical error gets brain swelling and then stays in a stable vegetative state. In the light of experts' opinions, the loss of a mother destructively affects children's mental development, leading to adaptive, emotional, emotional difficulties. These are just a few stories of human tragedies where the court had to decide whether or not to grant compensation to the victims of crime. The proceedings lasted for years, and the decisions were different. And in situations like this, you can't wait, you can't wait, you can't wait, you can't wait. You don't have to wait to wake up a comatose person to find that she and her loved ones are suffering. You don't have to and you can't wait to make amends for this suffering. Family members who are close to a post-traumatic coma or a vegetative state often suffer no less than when a loved one dies. That is why such a reparation must be a direct guarantee of the law. The granting of compensation to members of the injured family is to be possible in the event of severe and permanent injury to the body or health disorder resulting in a break-up or inability to establish family ties. This amendment provides for this submission. The proposed amendment is intended to help resolve the differences of case law that have arisen in recent years, both at the level of the general courts and the Supreme Court. Currently, the Civil Code makes it possible for the court to grant the nearest family members an adequate amount of compensation for the harm suffered only in the case of a loved one who has died as a result of an illegal act. The rules do not specify the amounts in detail. In practice, problems related to the granting of redress to family members start when a person suffers severe and permanent injury or health disorder. The proposal therefore proposes that the legal basis for such decisions be expressed directly in the following Article. 446 Civil Code. As indicated in the explanatory memorandum, the provisions would apply only to the most severe cases, such as the break-up of family ties due to post-traumatic coma, vegetative state or brain damage. Although it is impossible to value or value suffering and harm, the payment of compensation in such situations should be possible, and this possibility should be guaranteed by law. Importantly, this amendment may apply not only to events that occurred only after the change of regulations. Family members whose claims will not be renewed could also request payment of compensation if they meet these criteria. Given the social importance of the problem, given that no changes were made during the committee's work to change the applicant's intention expressed in the draft submitted, the Left Club maintains its position expressed at first reading and considers that these solutions deserve support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u253	Thank you very much. Now Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, on behalf of the Polish Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u254	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I would like to present our position on the report of the committee on the draft law on amending the law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland - Civil Code, prints No 1125 and 1218. The Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland, as well as the clubs presenting their positions in front of our club, is as positive as possible for the presidential draft amendment of the Civil Code consisting in adding an article. 446 I fully share the argument also made by the previous Members, but I would like to point out that it is not that there are no minor comments to this project, e.g. no closed event directory is specified which may be the basis for the request. These events can certainly include a vegetative state, a coma, or severe brain damage. The assessment of whether or not there are grounds for redress will be the responsibility of the courts in the event of a dispute and a closed catalogue of such situations could be sought. In addition, the regulation should be designed so that family members know in advance what payment they can expect in a given situation. Without such regulation, compensation will remain largely unpredictable. The proof of this is, for example. divergences in case law in different regions of the country. In very similar cases, the compensations are different. up to four - five times. There is also doubt about the wording: permanent injury to health, which has no legal definition. In the explanatory memorandum to the amendment, the term "immediate impairment of vital functions" is used, and this term reflects much better the nature of the regulated issue. The question remains which entity will be entitled to conclude that the injured person's condition is permanent within the meaning of the irreversibility of impairment of vital functions. It is also not known what will happen if the immediate family members receive compensation for breaking their family ties and then the injured person dies. Art. 446 § 4 of the Civil Code grants compensation to loved ones for their death. The proposed provision does not determine the relationship between those provisions. Insurers fear that the closest family members will be able to make a claim twice. These are doubts that, of course, remain. As I said, they do not prejudge the positive opinion of the Polish Coalition club about the project. Despite some imperfections, we will certainly support it in this form, although here I am looking towards the representatives of the President - perhaps there is still time to refine this project so that it is full, responds to the whole spectrum of doubts and situations that may arise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u255	Thank you very much. Now, Mr Michał Urbaniak, near the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u256	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am surprised that such a project goes to the Polish Sejm only now. This right, which introduces an institution of redress for the immediate members of the injured family, has been in principle in place since 2008. Unfortunately, for 13 years, i.e. during the reign of the PiS and Platform, nobody tried to clarify it, but it was a shame. It's just a shame. Judicial practice shows that compensation for family harm caused by a lack of possibility to continue or establish a relationship was often judged and this was the case. But unfortunately, it was not a rule, and we have here examples of dismissing such claims. Unfortunately, this does not put our judiciary or the seriousness of the Polish state in the best light. We often have such a rift in very similar situations. It is a pity that - I think it can be said directly - in the name of saving a certain PR, here Mr President, we must deal with such topics as if we are not able to do this in this Parliament more quickly, for example. in previous terms. Instead of pursuing a real policy, both inside and outside the country, this needs to be addressed. The tools the president has are limited. There is only the possibility of dialogue or this handling of matters for Poles. There's still a lot of things standing still. It would be worth recalling the French or the reform of the NFZ, because the President himself said that he was also behind the liquidation of the NFZ or at least for its radical reform. Here such a presidential credibility can be undermined by how it behaved against the debt fund, which PiS and the Left voted in the Sejm, and then he signed it all. This does not change the fact that this particular project was simply needed, so we, as the Confederation, will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u257	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u258	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 once again expresses its support for the bill. It is good that there is a legal solution to the payment of compensation when the nearest family member suffers serious injury to his health resulting in the inability to establish or continue his family relationship. The designer compares this to the injury specified in the Civil Code in Article. 446 § 4. He is referring to particularly dramatic situations where, following severe and permanent injury to health, it is no longer possible to have a family relationship. However, it will be important to determine what is a family bond and who it actually exists between. Circle of Poland 2050 proposes not revolutionary, but evolutionary, modern change. We insist: let us take a bold step. Modern democracies, in our opinion, require this. We therefore submit, Minister, High Sejm, the amendment again to Article. 1 of the Law amending the term "closest family members" replace in the following article. 446 It is debatable in the doctrine, as we emphasized, the possibility of granting compensation to concubines, pupils of the deceased, fiancé or other persons who do not have a relationship, affinity or adoption. We would like to point out that the Supreme Court pointed out in its judgment of 21 March 2013 that, in any case, people who live together can have an emotional bond that would justify giving them the status of loved ones. There are also such representatives of doctrine - we reiterate - who believe that to the family within the meaning of the provision of the article. 446 § 3 of the Civil Code should also include pupils, brides, concubines, if their relationship is of sufficient durability and has a sufficiently strong economic community. Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 supports the project. We consider it appropriate to make amends, but indeed to those closest to the victim who no longer have a relationship with him. That is why we are making this amendment. We remember the words of the Minister expressed here, in the Sejm, about respect and equality of law. Consciousness and courage are needed today not only for Polish footballers, but also for those who write and constitute the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u259	Thank you very much, thank you. The questions were raised by two Members, actually two Members. I'm closing the list of people who have been asked questions. Please, Mr Sylvester Tulaev. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u260	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to stress very strongly how important and how necessary this law is. Family, family ties are the foundation of our lives. And it is very good that there is a proposal by President Andrzej Duda, that there is another project, another presidential activity that has just highlighted, in a clear way, giving the courts the opportunity to grant compensation, to make amends for lost family ties. So I would like to thank you very much for this next initiative by the President, which has been a great deal lately. It's not just this case, it's also the Payment Services Act. But this specific law, which speaks of family ties, is necessary, is necessary and gives the courts a clear opportunity to grant compensation and redress. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u261	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u262	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A formally legalized family is just one of the relationships where people run a common household. However, the law should treat more widely the number of persons entitled to pay the compensation. These should include those closest to the victim, not just members of his family. Human bonds are the foundation of the proper functioning of each relationship, including families. Apart from the emotional sphere, there are economic ties that allow families and relationships to function properly. The sudden break-up of these bonds should be mitigated by payment of an appropriate amount of compensation, but this law should give greater consideration to the number of persons entitled to it. And with such a request, I ask the Minister (the bell) to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u263	Thank you very much. The Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Catherine Frydrych, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u264	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The President should be thanked for this legislative initiative. I am not going to be isolated in this opinion, and it has already sounded in this Chamber, how important this project is, how it complements the legal gap that exists in our system of law. In the current state of law, there is no clear, unambiguous regulation which would constitute the legal basis for granting immediate family members of the victim's compensation if, as a result of an illegal act, he suffered severe and lasting injury to his health, resulting in the inability to establish or continue his family relationship with the victim. I would like to point out that this is a very important bill, and therefore there is no doubt that the High House should accept it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u265	Thank you very much, Minister. Do you or the applicant's representative wish to speak? [[Minister. Thank you.]] Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u266	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me begin by expressing my thanks on behalf of the President for the unanimous, uniform support for the President's initiative to amend the Civil Code. Let me refer literally to a few points, because the project was the subject of a long and detailed discussion during the committee's meeting and I would also address in a few words the proposals for its amendments and the question of Mr Szopiński. Mr Paszyk, declaring his support for the presidential initiative, pointed to a number of issues, including: the absence of a catalogue of events justifying compensation, questions were asked about the amount of compensation, about the authority to assess the condition of the injured person. These issues were discussed during the committee meeting and I will address them briefly. With full awareness, given above all the fact that these are regulations of the Civil Code, i.e. the systematics of the Civil Code, the lack of legal definitions, as well as the clarification and interpretation of these provisions by judicial case law, including in particular the case law of the Supreme Court, there is no possibility of creating a closed catalogue of events in the assessment of the presidential office. We're talking about a very serious situation when it's growing into a vegetative state. I believe that today there is no possibility of drawing up such a closed catalogue of events, and this must be left to court, because life is richer in such tragic situations. On the part of the courts, the assessment of the presidential office should include both the question of the amount of compensation and the assessment of the injured person, for example because of the mechanisms at his disposal, e.g. the possibility of taking advantage of the expertise of experts. Mr Zimoch, but this also sounded in Mr Szopiński's question, raises the question of changing the catalogue of entitled persons, i.e. the proposal to change the wording of the closest family member to the closest person. This issue was discussed both during the first reading and during the committee meeting, and I would like to assure you that it was also a very thorough examination and analysis at the President's Office. We have served a number of court decisions from the level of the courts of first instance to the case law of the Supreme Court and in the opinion of the Presidential Office, however, the phrase "the nearest member of the family" is the most appropriate formulation and you will allow me to quote a few in support of this. First of all, the possible replacement of the phrase "the closest member of the family" with the phrase "the closest person" would distinguish between the catalogue of persons entitled to compensation in the case of the vegetative states referred to in this provision, designed and proposed by the President, and the situation of compensation in the event of death. And this catalog for these vegetative states would be wider in such a situation. Secondly, in these cases, we are talking about the lack of possibility to establish or continue family ties, and precisely because of the protection of family ties it seems that this formulation of the closest member of the family is the most appropriate, and - please allow - only on the basis of an analysis of the caselaw I mentioned, this catalogue is quite widely understood by the courts and is involved in this by spouses, children, siblings, siblings, half-brothers, grandparents, concubines and relatives. What is important, the courts in each case examine this issue individually and the relation is not the sole criterion for judging this redress. I think that's it. Once again, High Izbo, thank you for your uniform support for the presidential initiative. Thank you kindly, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u267	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was notified to the proposed amendment, pursuant to Article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I am directing this draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications in order to submit a report. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report from the Extraordinary Commission on the Commission's draft law amending the Act - Code of Administrative Procedure (Prints 1090 and 1210). I ask Mrs Barbara Bartus to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u268	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications on the Commission's draft law amending the Act - Code of Administrative Procedure from Print No. 1090. The bill entered the Sejm on 25 March this year. as an initiative of the Legislative Commission. On 20 May, the Sejm held its first reading of the draft law, and then your Marshal addressed the draft to the Extraordinary Commission on changes in codification, which in turn referred the draft to her Permanent Sub-Committee on the revision of the Labour Code and the Code of Administrative Procedure. The subcommittee, after several hours of work on 8 June, adopted a report requesting the adoption of the draft in the form of a single text of the draft with amendments tabled, which was adopted by the committee on the following day, and annexed to the report of the committee presented in print No 1210. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed amendment to the provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure aims to bring the system of law into line with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 12 May 2015 in the case under the signature of Act P46/13, in which it was decided that Article. 156 §2 of the Code of Administrative Procedure, in so far as it does not exclude the admissibility of annulment of a decision taken in breach of the law, where a significant lapse of time has occurred since the decision was taken and the decision was the basis for the acquisition of a right or an expetition is incompatible with Article. 2 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. It is crucial that the judgment referred to above is a substantive judgment relating to the narrow issue presented to the Court. As part of its work, the Extraordinary Commission for Codification Changes considered it appropriate to address the broader dimension of the constitutional court's problem in a way that ensures a balance between constitutional principles of legalism and legal certainty. At the subcommittee and committee meetings, after considering a number of amendments, it was decided to add the situation referred to in Article. 156 § Point 1 (2) in which a decision has been taken without a legal basis or gross infringement of the law, to the previous catalogue of circumstances in which annulment has taken place it is possible for up to 10 years from the date of service or publication of the decision and after which the decision is concluded only in breach of the law. An amendment introducing a new 30-year period for the examination of nullity cases was also accepted, after which the application would become inadmissible and would be rejected by the Authority. As a result of the proposed regulation on decisions taken in the period between 10 and 30 years back, it will therefore be possible to obtain a determination by the authority of the contested decision in breach of the law, but the decision cannot be repealed. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is clear from the rich judicial acquis of the Constitutional Court that the time limit for the reticence of final administrative decisions is not a constitutional principle, and that the limitation of time limits for challenging final administrative decisions is justified on grounds of legal certainty. In particular, the rule of law is based on the principle of protection of citizen's confidence in the State and its rights and the principle of legal security, which are binding on the legislator. Therefore, as well as assessing the importance of the issue, the committee considers it necessary to also introduce the transitional arrangements contained in the Article. 2. Undoubtedly, the amendment of the regulations covered by the project will have a direct effect on a number of proceedings in progress at the date of the entry into force of the Law. In this state of affairs, it is the legislator's task to provide for a solution to ensure a substantive settlement for entities which, within 30 years of their decision being challenged, have benefited from the possibility to challenge it and have not yet obtained a decision until the entry into force of the law, regardless of the fact that by that time it will be 30 years from the date of the judgment in question. On the other hand, it is necessary to ensure the stability of the legal system by securing it against flood of applications only to benefit from the regulation currently in force and irrespective of the substantive grounds for submitting them. It was therefore considered appropriate that any action resulting from the appeal of the decision, more than 30 years after its adoption, should be terminated by law. Undoubtedly, the term 30 years remains one of the longest terms in the Polish legal system with legal effects, such as the possibility to acquire property by sitting. It is significant that the limitation period for civil claims caused by crime or transgression has been fixed for 20 years. Therefore, the setting of a 30-year deadline for the enforcement of rights through administrative emergency proceedings by interested parties will implement the principles of the rule of law and the rule of law, while giving the basis for the durability of decisions delivered. During the committee's work we also extended the vacathio legis from the proposed 14 days to the standard adopted in the amendments to the codes 30 days and we propose that the law enter into force 30 days after the date of its announcement. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to thank all the members of our committee and ministry, the ministries for their efficient and substantive work. On behalf of the Extraordinary Commission for Changes in Codifications, I would like the High Sejm to adopt the bill in print 1210. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u269	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mrs Barbara Bartus on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u270	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! It has been my honor and pleasure to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the report of the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications on the Commission's draft law amending the Act - Code of Administrative Procedure, contained in print No 1210. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As part of our parliamentary work, we often face issues in which there is no place for a minimalist approach and a broader look at the legal problem under consideration is necessary - in order to ensure that the law created is not dead and that, above all, it serves the public interest and the interests of the citizen effectively. Such a situation undoubtedly emerged during the work on the Commission's draft law amending the Act - Code of Administrative Procedure. The principle of the sustainability of decisions serves to achieve important values such as the protection of legal order, the stability of legal trading, confidence in the authorities of the State and the law itself and, above all, the protection of acquired rights. The conduct of emergency proceedings aimed at eliminating all decisions, in particular those issued a few decades ago, poses a huge risk, both because of the growing difficulties in evidence and because of the lack of access to the files of primary cases. Decisions on annulment are often made discretionaryly, based on insufficient evidence and without the possibility of deepening the analysis of the actual legal situation. Let's remember that we have laws on missing files. As far as cases from decades ago are concerned, there is often only a decision left in the archives, without this source material. Potential changes in the interpretation of the law and the assessment of events in the factual sphere which were at the heart of the ruling are also important. Such situations, instead of bringing about a lawful situation, pose a genuine threat to the legal interests of both individuals and communities at different levels. It should also be noted that more than 30 years have passed since the systemic changes in 1989 and 1990, in particular those with a special position in the legal sphere. At that time, there was certainly no obstacle to the exercise of their rights on the basis of the current regulation. Therefore, the proposed time limit for action to repeal the legal effects of defective administrative decisions should be assessed as sufficient, in particular with regard to the observed development of forms of communication and universal access to information, including legal information. I would like to point out that possible references to the institutions of sitting and limitation do not have a dimension of analogy here, but merely draw attention to periods of far-reaching legal effect adopted by the legislator. Since after 30 years it is possible to intervene in the right of property, which is indicated as the strongest right of property, the adoption of the same deadline for challenging administrative decisions - not always having a material effect - must be considered rational and balanced. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The Constitution of the Republic of Poland as a fundamental law has the highest legal power in the system of sources of law in our country. The main effect of the entry into force of the proposed regulations will be to supplement the regulation of the Code of Administrative Procedure, which does not meet the constitutional requirements, with a legal solution that duly reflects the conclusions of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 12 May 2015. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I declare my support for the proposed revision of the provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Okay, that's great.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u271	Mrs Joanna Jaśkowiak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u272	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club in relation to the proposed amendment of the law - Code of Administrative Procedure presented in prints 1090 and 1210. I would like to say that the substantive solutions put forward in this project are in principle not questionable. The proposed law aims to bring the system of law into line with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 12 May 2015, which stated that the Article was incompatible. 156 § 2th Act - Code of Administrative Procedure with Constitution. The Court held that, in so far as the said Article does not exclude the admissibility of annulment of a decision taken in breach of the law, where a significant lapse of time has occurred since the decision was taken and that the decision was the basis for the acquisition of a right or an expetition is incompatible with Article. 2 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. In the conclusions of the judgment, the Court stated that the stabilisation of the facts after a certain period of time was in the interest of public policy and that this is what we agree on. On the other hand, the concerns raised by the article. 2 (2) 1 and Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [1] shall apply mutatis mutandis. 3 proposed solutions. The first concerns that administrative proceedings for annulment of decisions or orders initiated and not concluded before the date of entry into force of this Law shall be governed by the provisions of the Act as amended by Article. 1 as amended by this Act. The second reservation concerns a short time limit for the entry into force of the Act. We therefore place two amendments on the hands of the Marshal. You're welcome. Thank you very much. The club's decision to vote will depend on the fate of these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u273	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u274	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives, I would like to present our position on the Commission's draft law amending the Act - Code of Administrative Procedure, prints No 1090 and 1210. The proposal, most importantly, concerns the alignment of the system of law with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal P 46/13, which ruled that Article. 156 § 2 The Code of Administrative Procedure, in so far as it does not exclude the admissibility of annulment of a decision taken in breach of the law where a significant lapse of time has occurred since the decision was taken and the decision was the basis for the acquisition of a right or an exhibition is incompatible with Article. 2 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The Constitutional Tribunal ruled on 12 May 2015 as indicated above. In view of the fact that the legislator has failed to take appropriate legislative action in response to the above mentioned above. the judgment of the court has been dealing with the issue of admissibility and the way in which it is taken into account in specific administrative matters for nearly 6 years. It is measured, on the one hand, with the problem of the lack of direct legal effect of the Constitutional Tribunal judgment, on the other hand, with the need to ensure legal protection in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland for entities in a situation similar to that of the Constitutional Tribunal. It's just been six years of this legal chaos. As experts stress, this is an extremely important change for public administration, for citizens interested in decisions, for example expropriation. If the provision proposed in the draft were to apply, the nullity of the decisions taken would be excluded. In the light of the legislative omissions that have already been brought to the Parliament of the Republic of Poland, the legislative initiative should be assessed positively. However, it is necessary to ask about the time which has elapsed since the judgment of the Constitutional Court. It should also be asked what caused such a profound redrafting of the initial provisions of the draft at the stage of the committee we have been dealing with. Finally, it should also be asked whether, according to this proposal, all decisions should be put in a single bag. I don't know what you're talking about. with those things that are under way? It seems like it's gonna be kind of weird when it comes to its effects. We don't say not to this project. Depending on what solutions will bring further work on this project, as a parliamentary club, we will adapt our position to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u275	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u276	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Good news and bad news for you. Okay, that you've noticed our amendment and our actions on the committee. Angry because you thought we weren't gonna make an adjustment today. We'll fold it. But in order not to repeat what has already been said, we propose briefly: mini, max - minimum words, maximum good law. Poland 2050, a parliamentary circle, proposes an amendment to the article. 1 in point 2 in the following § Article 3 158 words: 30 years to replace: 10 years. It took a very long time, because as many as 30 years of age, a time limit for moving decisions issued with a gross violation of the law, which were the basis for the acquisition of the law or a legitimate expectation of the acquisition of the right. The 30-year period shall be three times the 10-year period provided for in Article. 156 § 2 Code of Administrative Procedure. We therefore propose that we introduce in this case a period of 10 years, the same as in the case of other grounds for annulment of the decision in Article. 156 k.p.a. According to us, it should be noted that the 30-year term belongs to the longest term known to Polish law. It seems that the introduction of such a long deadline does not fulfil the intention of the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment, which sought to compromise between the principles of legalism and the principle of citizen's confidence in the State. The 30-year deadline clearly continues to be a strong primacy of legalism, since it allows the decision to be touched by a generation earlier. The questioning of such decisions will almost always lead to a deepening of legal chaos and the need to cascade further legal actions taken many years ago, often by dead individuals or legal persons no longer exist. That's why we're putting an amendment on the Marshal's hand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u277	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Kaminski, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u278	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are debating the necessary draft law on amending the law - Code of Administrative Procedure. As regards the proposed amendments, they are necessary, and they result from the need to implement the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal into the system of law. But they can't be accepted in this form. The proposed amendments go far beyond the operative part of the Constitutional Court's judgment, which concerned decisions taken in gross violation of the law concerning the acquisition of a right or an exhibition. In this project they were also extended to decisions issued without a legal basis or issued with a gross violation of the law, which are not at the same time the basis for the acquisition of the right or its expetition. In addition, in the proposed form, the law provides for the waiver of the law already in force, initiated 30 years after the date of service or notification of the decision or order and not completed before the date of entry into force of this Law. This provision is in fact in breach of Article. 2 of the Constitution, the infringement of which concerned a judgment given by the Constitutional Tribunal. There is also a relatively short, 10-year deadline for the applicant to obtain the annulment of an administrative decision, which is important in view of the chronic nature of proceedings. Given the need to make changes in this area, as well as the shortcomings of the proposed solutions, and the possibility of considering them as non-constitutional, as the Confederation, we are surprised and hope that they will be repaired. In this respect, in terms of this amendment, it is worth to mention one scandalous and outrageous fact: a diplomatic representative not of the highest rank of another country rebukes the marshal, teaches how we in Poland are to shape our legislation. We're not an American colony, we're not a 51st state. Some president-designed person won't decide how we're supposed to run our legislation. This also shows that the subject which you wanted to sweep under the rug - I am talking about Jewish claims - is still on the wallpaper when it comes to the US authorities, which can be seen from the behaviour of the American representative in Poland. If that were not the case, you would not be dealing with this subject, and I would remind you that the citizens' bill is on the committee and you do not want to prosecute it. I believe that the Polish state should not allow a representative of a foreign state to influence our legislation. And our reaction should be very, very firm. We must defend the good Polish-American relations against the vassalization, so we cannot leave such impudent behavior without reacting on our part. And this is the kind of reaction I expect from the Polish government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u279	Thank you. Mrs Magdalena Beyat, the club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u280	High Izbo! Today's revision of the Code of Administrative Procedure implementing the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 2015 is a solution that will have a real and tangible impact on the lives of thousands of citizens, the functioning of businesses and organisations of different types. Everyone: whether a private person or an entrepreneur who receives an official decision on his own property must not only be able to trust this decision. He must be confident and be able to take further action, life decisions and investments freely. The opposite situation, which is currently taking place, where a decision taken in violation of the law can be withdrawn at the request of a third party, even after decades, is not only a drastic violation of the authority of the State, a breach of trust in public institutions and law as such, but is also human, simply degrading to the citizen. Social trust, truthfulness, responsibility for decisions and steps we take towards others are the foundation of human relations. The State must not violate these basic and generally accepted ethical principles, therefore the amendment of Article. 156 of the Code of Administrative Procedure, although it appears to be a technical issue in the field of law, is so important and concerns a large part of society. It is not only about its tangible operation, whether a young family can safely buy an apartment or get a mortgage on it, it is not only about tenants of tenants of tenants and blocks to which they claim, about companies that want to invest, or about people who will build their own house and may, after many years, suddenly find out that they have to undress it or rebuild it. It is a fundamental sense of justice, the certainty of the reality surrounding us and the freedom to make life's decisions. Novel art. 156 k.p.a. it's a step towards a rule of law that we can trust, in which everyone and everyone can make life's decisions safely. It is important that this law, which is used to correct the existing rules, is well written, and I would therefore like to draw the attention of the High House to the question of the procedure in which the proceedings for the annulment of the defective decision are to be extinguished. The intention of the authors of the law was that all proceedings should be automatically extinguished under the law as referred to in Article. 2 (2) 2 projects currently under investigation. Such construction does not occur anywhere else in administrative proceedings. Consequently, there is no uniform interpretation of its implementation. In practice, therefore, this will result in some authorities issuing a decision to terminate the proceedings, others will notify the parties that the proceedings have been terminated by law and others will not do anything yet. In order to avoid further chaos and to fully implement the right intention of the projectors, a provision should be added which would indicate that the authority does not issue a decision to discontinue the proceedings but merely informs the parties that it has been surrendered by law. This is the amendment we will make as the Left Club and I highly recommend it to the Ministry and to the parliamentary majority. Of course, one of the key aspects of this revision of the rules, which cannot be mentioned, is the issue of exclusion of reprivatisation claims. This solution results in the end of the 30-year horror of the tenants and the deadlock in which the owners and buyers of the apartments are located on the estates of the big album, which stand on land to which claims also appear. This solution is the only right solution - the end of this endless gehenna, the elimination of the still hanging over the citizens of the sword. This solution is expected by the High House's general public, which is why it is very pleased that the novel has gained such broad support at first reading. I hope that this support will continue, however, and I therefore call on all the clubs and parliamentary circles and the Senate to adopt it as soon as possible. However, we must not forget that reprivatisation is a much more complex problem, going beyond Warsaw and the decree of Bieruta or some of the agricultural land that this amendment may also concern. I also appeal: do not rest on your laurels and do not stop at changing one rule. He is still waiting to consider the draft Law on Reprivatization of the Left, which comprehensively solves all the problems related to claims. There are still issues relating to the valuation of re-privatised immovable property and, consequently, the amount of compensation, the verification of the accuracy of claims, their taking into account their actual status or mortgage burden and, above all, trade in claims. These issues also require urgent attention from the Sejm. The solution prepared by the Left lies and waits. We hope that a step in the right direction is the implementation of the judgment of the Tribunal and the amendment of the Article. 156 k.p.a., will not be the last step, and for the next 30 years citizens and local governments will not have to wait. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u281	Thank you. Three Members have asked questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. Mr Michał Grammar, Civic Coalition. [[You misjudged it. I wanted the Code of Civil Procedure, and this is the Code of Administrative Procedure. Wrong, Mr. Marshal.]] I understand. You're resigning. [[I'm here about the next bill.]] Okay. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u282	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal as the basis for the proposed amendment was delivered on 12 May 2015. For 6 years from the date of the entry into force of the judgment concerning the so-called. the legislative omission was in force and the legal status introduced with the entry into force of the Code of Administrative Procedure in 1960 is still in force. The Polish Metropolitan Union approached the Sejm, asked the Ministry that there was no convincing argument that the vacathio legis could not be extended to 6 months from the date of entry into force of the law, which would allow the parties to adopt the new legislation. In view of the above, the question to the Minister: Why was this proposal related to the six-month vacathio legis omitted in the work on this law in the event of its operation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u283	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u284	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I would like to say that this is a very important bill, so expected. The moment has come for its adoption. It's a good thing we're working on it here, and we're going to give it to her. It is in the interest of the Polish state that we adopt it. And nothing is swept under the rug. The Polish State, the Sejm operate within the framework of democracy, take up challenges and implement them. I'd like to ask you a question. In the course of the discussion, various arguments arise in the case of a longer, shorter period. What are the arguments behind one and the other? Because it's hard to say what's best based on this discussion. I believe, as I said at the outset, that the bill is extremely important. I'm so glad we're making it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u285	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Sebastian Kaleta has the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u286	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The open door to reprivatization over the years was, in addition to this hope of restoring the harm that was caused by the communist system, unfortunately the door through which much injustice, suffering, soullessness and uncertainty passed through. For several years now, we have been closing this door, throwing away crooks, house-cleaners for them, ensuring peace and security for Poles who, through this process and some people, have lost confidence in our country. The process of reprivatization itself, as I said at the outset, was hoping to make amends. However, after 30 years, it can be said that the bill is not exactly what was expected at the beginning of the transformation. At the same time, these 30 years were the period during which what happened should be closed. Therefore, this project comprehensively refers to both the expectations of those who for 30 years expected to make amends as well as those who have suffered new harm for 30 years. I would therefore like to say that this project is part of some of the changes that the Polish Parliament is making in terms of rational, responsible closure, among others. the problem of reprivatisation, because the Constitutional Court's judgment referred to this. But the problem of touching administrative decisions after many years, in the future, when we are already living in fully democratic Poland, can have other undesirable effects. That's why this bill is very important. I am pleased that the spirit of responsibility for our country from all parliamentary clubs has been lifted since the beginning of this project. I don't think it's the end of the project. ordering reprivatisation cases, because there are still a number of other aspects that require attention, but it is a very important step that makes the situation of millions of Poles stable in many areas of their daily life. I would like to thank Barbara Bartus, who has been very determined to work on this project for months. I would like to thank the representatives of other clubs and parliamentary circles with whom we have worked in committee on the most appropriate wording of the rules, so that they fully implement both the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal and those expectations that society formulates towards the political class. Therefore, on behalf of the Ministry of Justice, I fully support what has been developed by the committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u287	Thank you very much. Would the rapporteur like to speak? Mrs Barbara Bartus. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u288	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! In this final statement, I will quote one of the last paragraphs of the statement of reasons for the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of May 2015. The Court concludes: In view of the scope of constitutional control, including the omission of legislation, the Court has not determined whether the appropriate means of implementing this request is currently provided for in the Article. 156 § 2 c.p.a. A 10-year pre-emptive period which limits the annulment of administrative decisions with certain other shortcomings. The legislator shall have the freedom to choose the legal instruments for the implementation of the constitutional values indicated by the Court. This paragraph was such a starting point for the work in committee, in a subcommittee on a draft submitted by the Legislative Commission, which was strictly the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, the scope judgment. That is why, as I said in my speech, we have started a comprehensive revision of this article. 156 § 2, which was presented here, and in fact concerned the conditions set out in the preceding paragraph, and we considered that the 10-year period would be the appropriate period, after which the decision was no longer repealed. Here some of you say: a period too long, too short. We have also accepted for all the shortcomings mentioned, for which there is a 10-year period, so that, after 30 years, the proceedings will no longer be conducted. We did so in the spirit of the judgment of the Constitutional Court, because the tribunal also pointed out that these source documents were incomplete. It's what I was talking about earlier. The Member asked the Minister why we did not take into account the opinion, the proposal of the metropolitan town association to extend the vacathio legis by at least six months. The Member addressed the Minister. It is not the minister who determines the vacathio legis, it is the legislator. At the committee meeting, we adopted this 30-day vacathio legis because the Constitutional Court's judgment stated that the absence of such a deadline, such a limitation of the possibility of repealing a decision is unconstitutional, is inconsistent with the constitution we adopted in 1997. And already today some administrative courts on the basis of that judgment have dismissed, for example. lawsuit, which drew attention to this period, stating that we do have the principle of legalism, but some administrative courts It has already treated the fact that, after 10 years, the decision cannot be repealed. Therefore, this knowledge, that since this judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal has passed such a period, was a condition for adopting these transitional provisions, where we state: everything that concerns such a very old period, whether or not the acquisition of rights has taken place, is abandoned. As regards the question of how this remission will look, we will examine the amendments at the committee meeting which have been tabled. I'm sure we'll think about it. Today we adopted it by law, without specifying what it means. But if the amendments that have been tabled make changes to our project that can further improve this draft, the future law, we will certainly bend over these amendments. Thanks again for your work. As the Minister said, this is an important project for me, because it concerns matters that I know, about the injustice that is happening at this moment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u289	Thank you. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was notified to the proposed amendment, pursuant to Article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I am directing this draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications in order to submit a report. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Law - Code of Civil Procedure and some other laws (Prints Nos 1222 and 1291). I ask Mr Mark Ast to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u290	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, it is my pleasure to present the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the law - Code of Civil Procedure and some other laws, print Nos 1222 and 1291. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights examined the government bill at its meeting on 22 June. The project was not controversial, it is an implementation of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, so that the committee worked in concert on this project and, after the review, asks the Sejm to adopt the above-mentioned draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u291	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Marek Ast on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u292	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, of course, supports a government project. The project is indeed pro-consumer, it is the execution of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. However, we will make one amendment to this project, because at the stage of government work, the wording that we propose in the amendment was in it. The record, which we want to re-enter into the law, has a pro-consumer character. Its aim is to strengthen and protect consumers, so we will, of course, be working in committee to ensure that this amendment is taken into account. Of course, as a club, we support the project in its entirety and hope for amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u293	Thank you very much. Barbara Dolniak, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u294	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project is being implemented due to the need to implement into the Polish legal order the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union in four cases, including in a case which also concerned Poland, about the sign. C-545/17. This draft law covers amendments to as many as six legal acts and concerns various consumer or general issues relating to changes e.g. on the lodging of pleadings before the court. Now it will be possible to send a pleading to the court through also other operators, other providers than the Polish Post. It is a condition for the trader to register the service provider as a postal operator in this respect. It is also a condition to issue the consignment by registered letter, but this will result in a positive outcome for the parties to the proceedings, because in a situation where the consignment is lost, which may of course happen, it will be easy to demonstrate that the consignment has been sent in due time and to the competent court. The regulations contained in this project also include solutions for certain changes in terms of time limits for the lodging of charges in order proceedings, taking into account people living in Poland, within the European Union or finally outside the European Union. A solution is also introduced which reduces the amount of the charge up to a maximum of PLN 750 when the consumer is sued. Finally, the draft contains a solution to the obligation that the court hearing the case should assess each time the contract on the basis of which the claim against the consumer was secured by a note in respect of the existence of prohibited clauses in such a contract. The trader will be obliged to serve together with the main contract application, which was secured by a security note. It will also be possible to clarify the existence on the applicant's part of the right to seek reimbursement of the costs of translation of the necessary documents justifying the application for aid in proceedings conducted in the Republic of Poland under the Law of 17 December 2004 on the law on assistance in civil proceedings conducted in the Member States of the European Union and on the law of assistance in order to settle the dispute before the initiation of such proceedings. These solutions, aimed mainly at the consumer, are intended to improve the consumer's situation in legal proceedings and as such to improve this procedure. Unfortunately, we do not know the next amendment led by the majority club operating in the current Sejm, and it is therefore difficult to refer to it, but we will meet it tomorrow at the emergency committee meeting and then we will be able to assess the validity of this amendment. Let us hope that it will be included as a whole in this bill (the bell) so that there will not be a time when, although the project is adopted by all the parliamentary clubs, there is a solution that does not receive such acceptance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u295	Thank you. Catherine Ueberhan, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u296	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am pleased to reiterate the position of the Left Club on the Government Draft Print Act No 1222 and the report of the Print Committee No 1291 on the draft submitted. The draft law amending the law - Code of Civil Procedure and certain other laws is intended to implement the law of the European Union. The mandatory review of the contract, not just the notes, the longer period foreseen for appeal and the lower court fees to strengthen citizens in disputes with traders and to increase consumer protection against the activities of large companies, including banks - such changes are envisaged by the government's draft of the Code of Civil Procedure and some other laws. The primary objective of the amendment is to implement the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the so-called case. Prescription proceedings in disputes against consumers. In accordance with the indications of the Court of Justice of the European Union, national civil courts, including the referenda ruling therein, the amended provisions provide for the possibility to review the contract which the document submitted to the court and the annexes provided for, even before issuing the order for payment. All in order to capture prohibited contractual terms. It should be borne in mind that, when issued at a sitting in secret to the defendant's department, and even without his written position, an unlawful order for payment at the time of issue constitutes a enforceable security title without giving him a clause, which is almost as severe as the court's occupation for the defendant. The project also extends the ban on the transfer of rights from the consumer's bill to other persons, e.g. debt collection companies, and includes not only consumer credit so far, but all consumer contracts with the trader. Such protection is intended to cover not only the debtor himself, i.e. the side of the contract concluded with the entrepreneur, but also the guarantors. The plaintiff will have to submit a security note contract to the court. Without this, the court will not issue the order and will refer the case to a normal trial, so the defendant will be given the opportunity to present his claim before the final judgment is given. In specific cases, the defendant's statement in the court itself that he is a consumer, although fined up to PLN 300, is also sufficient. This amendment also harmonises the time limits for appeal against the order for payment, so-called. charges, up to 1 month if the debtor is in the European Union and 3 months when the service is to take place outside the European Union. In order to avoid complications, deadlines are meant for both consumers and entrepreneurs. The new solutions will also allow for the delivery of a pleading in accordance with the above terms in the form of a package recommended at a post office of any universal service provider. The charge on the order for payment, which was the subject of a claim against the consumer, will not exceed PLN 750 as submitted. That's much less than the usual procedure. The existing provisions shall apply to notes issued before the date of entry into force of this Law. The project adapts the Polish rules to the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union which have taken place on the basis of cases brought from Poland and Germany. The proposed solutions will increase the legal protection of citizens. Consumers and other parties to civil proceedings will be able to benefit from a comparable level of protection of their rights throughout the European Union. The changes made during the committee's work were mainly editorial and legislative and did not raise any objections and were supported by the committee. If the amendment tabled now at second reading does not affect the nature and records of the submission, then club The Left will continue to support this submission so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u297	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u298	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition, which I have the pleasure to represent, is always willing to support those projects which meet consumer needs, and in fact to meet the needs of Poles and Poles making daily decisions in economic trade. This project seems like a project. I think that if nothing happens at the last stage of the process, it will also gain our support. On the other hand, Minister, as at first reading, I would like to draw attention to one thing or to ask for reflection as regards changes in procedural letters sent to postal operators' offices. Isn't it worth thinking, as I said in my first reading, about relocating? Today, the world is moving forward. Maybe it is worthwhile for Poland to think boldly, of course, on a legal basis, that these pleadings may also be broadcast by operators who provide such services on the mobile. This does not, of course, change the positive opinion of this project from our club. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u299	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u300	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 supports the bill. We are pleased to bring the judgments of the TSUE into line with Polish law. It welcomes the recognition of the judgments of the TSUE by the Polish government. It welcomes the recognition by the Minister of Justice of the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union. And may it always be so, in any other case, with the judgments of the TSUE. But it also welcomes the debate on this project. There was a discussion, there was a calm resolution of doubts, and this very rare picture in recent months in the Seym works, although the slogan we play together today concerns a different sphere. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u301	Thank you very much. Three Members have asked questions. Mr Michał Grammar, Civic Coalition. Here you go, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u302	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! And now there's the Code of Civil Procedure. Thanks to the recent incident concerning the e-mail leakage of Minister Dworczyk's e-mails, the subject of electronic correspondence is very emotional. All the more so in the context of the submission under consideration, it is worth mentioning the orphaned article. § 165 § 4 of the Civil Procedure Code, which contains the standard of entry of a letter into the electronic system of the court. According to the Justice Committee's report, the projectors did not touch this challenge, despite the standards already in force in the Electronic Service Act, which prepares us for digital communication, among others. with the courts. Simple, user-friendly and, above all, secure electronic correspondence is a prerequisite for the development of our economy. Therefore, please consider my speech as an address for the issue of electronic delivery of letters to the courts as soon as possible (The Bell) has been developed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u303	Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u304	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Analyzing the proposed changes and, in particular, the justification, I have the impression that the amendment of Polish law takes place on the basis of the extinguishment of fires. Where we see smoke, that's where we drive fire trucks that solve the problem at once. Systemic activities and correlation with other provisions are missing. After all, we have clearly defined rules in Polish legislation regarding the consequences of agreements concluded in violation of law or criminal liability for making false statements. The question is why we make separate rules for each economic phenomenon that has been challenged, e.g. by the TSUE, the cities apply the existing applicable law to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u305	Thank you very much. Mr Przemysław Koperski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u306	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The consequence of the changes made to procedural law will be to extend consumer protection to material law. This protection was and is still insufficient when the consumer credit or other contract was covered by a Blanco note. Currently, courts have no right to examine the contract itself and issue an order for payment almost automatically. The provisions presented that adapt our right to the judgment of the TSUE will eventually change that. The plaintiff will be required to join the application for a bill-backed claim, together with the declaration and annexes, if the debtor is the consumer and the court will have to examine the contract. Moreover, such a claim can be sent not only through the Polish Post, but also in other authorized broadcasting units, as well as outside Poland. Here, Minister, I'm going back to my first reading question. I would like to know if you were able to arrange that the people of Bielska-Biała would not have to go abroad with their shipments to the Czech Republic. When will the post office (the bell) in the former voivodship cities be open 24 hours a day? Maybe you've finally cleared this up. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u307	Barbara Dolniak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u308	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about the amendment. Probably this amendment, made by the Law and Justice Club, was consulted at the Ministry. Doesn't it go beyond submission? The bill concerned six laws. Among them there is no law on combating unfair competition, and the amendment is already being tabled at second reading. Anyway, I was talking about it a while ago in my speech. I asked if an amendment would not be tabled which would, as a rule, affect the evaluation of this project in relation to this change. So I have a question: how are we supposed to evaluate this action if the amendment is not part of the project? At least I don't find that bill there. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u309	Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u310	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! It turns out that in the Polish parliament one has to react faster than on the football field. President Marek Ast. Mr. Mark, yesterday we were all shaking hands, and today you came here from some secret meeting and you're proposing an amendment you didn't even mention. Mrs Barbara Dolniak said how we think this amendment should be assessed. Minister, yesterday you thanked everyone, too, and we gave each other a hand. So the words about how cool it was. during the debate on this bill, I withdraw. The Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050 at the moment does not support this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u311	Minister Sebastian Kaleta, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u312	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The law is very important for consumers and strengthens their protection at the stage of judicial proceedings against the claimants. I am pleased that this submission has actually been dealt with in a way that has brought the best possible version of the project in my opinion, which will raise the standard of consumer protection. On the first point that has been raised, I would like to refer to the fact that this proposal stems from the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. I said at first reading and will repeat, Mr President, that the Government of the Republic, elected by the current parliamentary majority, respects the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, respects the decisions issued by the bodies of the European Union, provided that they are issued on the basis of the competences which have been delegated in the EU Treaties to the bodies of the European Union. In fact, consumer protection is the competence described in Article. 169 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. For this reason, cooperation with Union bodies in order to enhance consumer protection in the internal market ties us as much as possible and we respect that. And the disputes that we have with the bodies of the European Union, with my regret without the full support of this House, are due to cases which, in the opinion of the Polish Government, have not been granted to the European Union. This is the case with possible disputes that could be read between the lines from your speech. The second issue concerns operators and the possibility of mobile mailing. The Act extends the procedure concerning the possibility of carrying out postal services to all registered entities respectively. So it is up to them how they organize this service to their customers. If specific companies which could provide such services decide to introduce the specific service requested by the Member, this will be acceptable in the light of the wording of these provisions. As long as, of course, according to the permits that these companies currently have, this will be carried out. The question of submitting cases electronically. This may be going a little beyond this law, but I would like to stress here, for the right moment, that on 1 July the National Court Register is launched. And anyone, if he's running the relevant cases there, will be able to do everything electronically, by signature, by a trusted profile. This revolutionary change in Polish judiciary will soon be implemented. This is a very large, serious operation and I encourage you to use this service. I would like to remind you that from 2018 also proposals concerning perpetual books are directed in electronic form, so this is progressing and already about 30% of cases in Polish courts are carried out by electronic means. Mr Szopiński was paying attention to the issue of... I'm sorry, I didn't write it down very well, perhaps at another time I would refer. Mr Koperski spoke about post offices, which is outside the remit of the Ministry of Justice, because the way postal offices work is defined. However, the Member has the appropriate instruments under the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator to address the relevant ministries in this regard. And Mrs Dolniak's question on the amendment tabled. Mr Ast pointed out that what was in the amendment was in the original draft of the Ministry of Justice. Given that the Act increases consumer protection and the protection of fair competition in court proceedings, this was the wording of the original proposal, since the Act is about better conditions for consumer protection and fair competition. For this reason, the power indicated in this amendment, so that the rights resulting also from EU law, and not only from the Polish law, can be exercised, is directionally good. It will be for Parliament's committee to decide whether this initial proposal by the Ministry of Justice in this law should be found - with certainty at tomorrow's committee meeting, because I know that it is planned because of the fact that an amendment has been tabled. This will actually be implemented, so I hope, Mr President, that we will be consistently playing together today and tomorrow, and this amendment will also receive your approval, if it is properly discussed tomorrow at the committee meeting. It was the subject of work on this project, so it is good that it will also be finalized in committee. Thank you very much. [[But... on the field, not in the Seym.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u313	Mr Marek Ast, rapporteur for the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u314	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, as rapporteur, I am not authorized by the committee to refer to the proposed amendment. I can therefore only thank you for these declarations of support for the project by your Members, members of the committee. I hope that, after such an in-depth examination at the committee meeting of the proposed amendment, you will, however, maintain your support, including Mr Tomasz Zimoch, for this good bill. So I wanted to thank you again for this joint work on the committee. And express the hope that this constructive work on the bill will continue tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u315	Mrs Dolniak - in the way of correcting your own words? [[No, not my own, but the Minister's in connection with my statement. May I?]] Here you go - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u316	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I didn't ask about the original government project. What was in there is a completely different matter. I was asking about a project that was in the Seym. There was no law of 16 April 1993 on combating unfair competition in this project. Therefore, I asked for a reference to a project that was in the Seym, not to a project that you once prepared and removed from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u317	Thank you. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets submitted a report on a government draft law amending the Power Market Act and some other laws, print No 1307. Therefore, on the basis of Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm Marshals of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm should listen to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion on this item. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the Government draft law amending the Power Market Act and some other laws (prints Nos 1276 and 1307). I ask Mr Wojciech Zubowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u318	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets at its meeting which took place today considered a government bill amending the Power Market Act and some other laws. The Commission adopted amendments mostly of a legislative nature. There were also substantive amendments, extending the original scope of the Act somewhat, allowing electricity generators and power to adapt to the changing rules. After first reading, the Commission recommends that the attached draft law be adopted together with the amendments. A few words about the project itself. The proposed amendments result from the adaptation of Polish law to the provisions of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 June 2019 on the internal market in electricity. The provisions of that Regulation entered into force on 4 July 2019 and directly on the basis of them, the first capacity auction in 2020. The Polish power market was approved by a decision of the European Commission on 7 February 2018. According to the market regulation, existing regulations on capacity mechanisms, such as the power market in Poland, should be adapted to the provisions of the above mentioned regulation. regulation, and that is what we are trying to do here. The market regulation lays down rules to ensure the functioning of the internal energy market and environmental policy requirements, including CO emission limits From the perspective of the power market in Poland, the key issue is to regulate at the level of national legislation the share of the power market, from 1 July 2025 onwards, of units emitting more than 550 g of carbon dioxide from fossil fuels into the Kilovatohour of electricity produced. Ladies and gentlemen! In view of these issues, the purpose and purpose of these legislative and legislative works is to introduce and achieve results such as adapting the provisions of the law to the market regulation, eliminating uncertainty on the part of market participants in terms of its functioning after the entry into force of the market regulation in the context of its direct application, identifying solutions for how to take account of emission limits in the power market processes and clarifying interpretation doubts and improving the functioning of the power market processes. Finally, High Sejm, Mr Marshal, I would ask that the opposition parliamentarians, who will try to speak on this issue, separate energy security issues from policy issues, because unfortunately, among these substantive votes at the committee meeting, as well as after the committee meeting, there are those which had nothing to do with the facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u319	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Jan Warzecha, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u320	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present on behalf of the PiS Parliamentary Club a position regarding the amendment of the power market law and certain other laws. The solutions proposed in the Act are intended to ensure the smooth functioning of the internal energy market and the fulfilment of EU environmental policy requirements. Among the most important solutions in the revision is compliance with EU environmental policy requirements. It goes on, among other things. to waive the admission to market share of the capacity of high-carbon units, i.e. emitting more than 550 g CO2 per kWh and on average less than 350 kg CO2 per kWh per year. At today's meeting of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets and at the first reading of the law, the members of the governing coalition proposed two amendments. They strongly stressed that production units currently emitting more than 550 g CO The amendment clauses in the Act also introduce a new formula for the calculation of the power charge for consumers with the so-called. a stable energy consumption profile, such as those that do not generate peak peak demand spikes. High Izbo! I would like to remind you that in 2018 a power market was introduced in Poland, which resulted in the transition from the single commodity market, only energy, to the dual commodity market, energy and power. The solutions were intended to modernise a significant part of the generation assets needed for the proper balancing of power in the national electricity system and to build new blocks. The current provisions of the Power Market Act are intended to motivate new market participants, among others. investors planning to build energy storage facilities. They are designed to strengthen the security of electricity supply and reduce the risk of so-called. Blackout, because as we know, the most expensive energy is the undelivered one. As the practice shows, the costs of the power market are lower for business than the potential losses associated with the risk of interruptions in electricity supply, which may generate millions of losses resulting from each lack of energy. Associated with the introduction of the so-called "power market'. the capacity levy, which has been added to the energy consumers' accounts since January 2021, is an investment in the construction of new ones and the modernisation and maintenance of existing production units, as well as support for power plants to adapt to environmental standards. In the draft amendment to the Power Market Act, a new formula for calculating the power charge was proposed by the European Commission. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Proceded solutions are a response to requests made by entrepreneurs, especially by so-called. energy-intensive customers. Importantly, they apply to all recipients and are therefore not subject to allegations of unlawful use of State aid. The new proposal to charge capacity does not require notification to the European Commission, will contribute to the stability of the electricity system, will reward stable energy consumption and consumption in honorable hours and will allow consumers to reduce their energy charges. The law is to enter into force 14 days after the date of publication, with the exception of Article. 6 which will enter into force on 1 July 2024. Since the proposed mechanism is crucial for maintaining the competitiveness of the Polish industry and preserving jobs of small and medium-sized enterprises, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice recommends adopting this law and moving to the next work on the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u321	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u322	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today we are discussing the amendment of the law to the law which was introduced, adopted in 2017, and entered into force on 18 January 2018. It was a power market law. It has to be said that in Poland it was not an event, it was functioning in the European Union. At that time, we were modeling in Britain. In general, the system was supposed to improve our safety, give us financial resources so that electricity produced from coal could still function so that the mines could grow, adapt. In addition, these measures from the power market were also intended to create new power plants, new clean-burning power plants with defined parameters. The establishment of the two-track market at that time would lead us to pay for both the energy produced by the power plant and the willingness to secure the power of the power plant in the event that this power would have to be increased. How's it looking today? After this bill, which then came into force as loudly as we hear today, 5 auctions took place. Have we managed to generate new sources, new power plants? We heard ourselves that Poland's energy system is based in 2/3 on conventional power plants. We talked all the time about how this coal is so great, so good, and we didn't do anything, no more steps forward to try to replace conventional power plants with new blocks, even gas ones. Today we are at the threshold of the need to build new gas power plants, and maybe also power plants operating in cogeneration. And that's what happens, but it happens very slowly. This is because the government has not prepared the proper reform, the energy transformation of Poland. Today we do not know exactly what powers we will have after 2049 - then we are eliminating coal, which is, of course, just a social agreement, because there is no acceptance of the European Union for this type of action - and whether this energy security will be ensured. But today the purpose of this draft law is to ensure compliance with the provisions of the Act of 8 December 2017 on the power market, as I said earlier, with the regulation that entered into force, was adopted on 5 June 2019. It is about Regulation 2019/943 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the internal market in electricity, so-called. a market regulation. In accordance with this regulation, we are forced to limit our share of the power mechanism. It is also - and already in 2019 was a strong discussion on this issue - about reducing this share in the power mechanism of units emitting more than 550 g CO And the second element, very important, expected since 2017, when the law appeared. It is primarily about reducing the power charge for units with the so-called. a flat energy consumption profile, i.e. using similar amounts of electricity around the clock for 7 days a week. This is particularly what energy-intensive companies have been waiting for. It must be said here that it is, among other things. The mills, the chemical plants, the cement plants, the paper mills. These companies have been demanding from the outset a mechanism which will somehow also promote and protect them. Today I hope we can do this and this mechanism will work. Of course, if we look at (the bell) at the entire mechanism related to the power market, we will notice that auctions were supposed to lead to this price being competitive. In 2017, when Law and Justice designed this system, it was said that this energy would be cheap, and we have been observing its growth from the beginning, from 30%. What we learned from Britain was ruined because there really was a fall in price and there was a rise in price. The Civic Coalition Club, after listening to the last discussion with the Minister, hopes that it will support this bill. We hope that we will actually hear how the power market will balance, since we talked about... [[He's right.]] Thank you very much, sir. ...from 6 to 10 billion PLN will appear in the system. We'll see how this is going to balance and what power is going to be preserved. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u323	Mrs Beata Maciejewska, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u324	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, today was a few hours meeting of the committee at which we discussed this draft law. The changes that have been proposed are moving in the right direction in our opinion. However, I must say that very many questions have indeed not been answered in this committee. We did not receive any information on how the power market had so far been working, and we did not have any information about it. There was also a lack of information on how households would react to the increased capacity charge. We have no information on how the European Union will react to the fact that the social agreement does not allow us to withdraw from coal until 2049. These are just our wishes, the negotiations are going on, but they're not over, so there are a lot of questions. The law itself, which adapts our right to EU law, is another in the whole system of laws that we are adopting today, but it must be said that the system, when it comes to good energy transformation, is still broken. There is still no good, progressive idea for us to have as low energy prices as possible, so that we have the cleanest air and that these industries, which are energy-intensive, which today employ a lot of workers - as the industry has said, more than half a million people today work in energy-intensive industries - guarantee these workers a path of further work and further ability to maintain themselves and their families. These questions remain open, we realise that the energy transformation that we are already undergoing is one of the most complex, difficult and financially burdensome processes that we are going through in Poland today, but on the other hand we do not have the right commitment, knowledge and substantive approach to these issues. As a left-wing club, we'll probably support this project. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u325	Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u326	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Everyone will probably support this bill because there was no such decision on the committee. The former Minister and the current Minister had very different opinions on this subject, and it is not that we should not discuss it. There must also be criticism in this discussion, it is not that everything is beautiful, it is fine and nothing can be said but what PiS thinks, Mr President. No, it's not that... [[Voice from the room: Content discussion is desirable...]] This is a difficult topic, a very serious topic, because it concerns every Pole, every recipient and we should look for good solutions. It turns out that it has been difficult to find a decisive solution so far, which would give us a chance to transform into energy. And this energy independence, as you repeat, is important for Poland. More and more often, we start to run out of energy. The current we have in the sockets, except it's already coming from external suppliers, and it's very dangerous. Blackout may not come, but we buy it, we become energy dependent. The actions taken, including the statutory ones, are not determined, are uncertain and are not credible. An example of prosumer law and wasteland. It was a surprise from day to day, at the moment grass common discussion, everyone bragged not so long, week or month, 2 months ago, how wonderfully it developed, and suddenly boom, wall, you have to cut it all off. You cannot do such things because Poles are discouraged to become involved in the whole system of transformations, because it is people who have to pay for it. Individuals will pay more. The question is, how much more will they pay for this power bill? We didn't hear that either. The energy intensive industry, as well organised, will pay less, but individual consumers will bear the cost. Mr President, it cannot be said that there will be lower prices for electricity. No, according to what has been presented, individual recipients will pay a higher price. How taller? Today, this price is already pretty high. 9,5% For the last year of the year, so it's not enough. The question is, when is this gonna stop, if there's a chance of stopping? What's the point? If Poles are renunciating, they must pay more, then let the system we want to create be predictable. Let it give us the opportunity to create, as I said, energy independence, and above all let it speed up our transformations in terms of the transition from coal to clean energy, because this in turn has a double meaning, because our health and pollution of the environment as a secondary thing, climate and all these things. I will also say that I do not really know if we will support these solutions just like the previous ones, because there were doubts during the discussion. The Member has said so, and so have you. And we felt weird at this committee meeting. Lack of decision, it is not entirely clear whether this is a good solution or a bad solution, because these are difficult and complicated things, but someone should definitely do it and, above all, create credibility. We say that there will be no increases, and the increases are; that we will reduce coal, and next week we say no, but we will stick to coal; that we will introduce an atom, and nothing is happening in this regard. And now it's all losing some continuity and stability. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u327	Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u328	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This amendment of the Power Market Act is mainly designed to bring the rules into line with the regulations of the European Union as regards the power market, because so far Poland has simply not met all the requirements, e.g. with regard to emission limits for power plants which may be supported. So the project introduces above all these emission limits set by the market regulation, so to speak, in time. Finally. We have, of course, also the comments, the power market was intended to promote the creation of new power plants, while basically it became a little drip for coal and thus does not actually stimulate the energy transition as expected. The costs of the power market have been seen in our accounts since this year. For households it is about 10 zł per month, so it seems that little, but in fact the main payer is companies and institutions that consume 75% electricity in Poland. And that's where the cost is mostly embedded, and the cost in this place makes us less and less competitive. I already talked about it at the committee meeting. The worst part is that while we are adapting to the requirements of the European Union, government representatives still have not answered the question of how they want to ensure the energy security of the state after 2025, when coal power plants can no longer be supported. The amendment also leaves a clear gate - and that is also what I asked at the committee meeting and I did not get an answer - for additional support for producers outside the power market. The question is, because we don't know who, how high and what technology the government is planning to support. It would be good for government representatives to finally answer this question at the next stage of legal proceedings. Because when it comes to the fact that coal energy is gone with the company's decisions to shut it down, I don't think there's any doubt anymore. Besides, environmental problems also force this, and hence the requirements of the European Union, but cosmetic changes to the Power Market Act do not really solve the problem of lack of fuel for the transformation of the entire sector. So we need to strengthen the path from coal as soon as possible and the plans to replace generation capacity so as to maintain energy security in the coming years, because in fact this decline in generation capacity is already highly estimated. We know what he's like. The question is what we're going to supplement it with, because if we don't complete new investments and ideas for energy generation in a different way than coal, then we're just going to import more and more energy, and so we're going to be more and more vulnerable to the price of imported energy and its imbalance. So the amendment is a heart attack patch that doesn't solve our basic problems. And of course there must have been something else interesting in the bill, which is lex Ostrołęka. The Act introduces provisions allowing for the conversion of projects into less issue, limiting penalties for non-performance of power obligations. Such a project, Minister, we have one, called Ostrołęka, and it would be good for you to admit that this is how you solve the problem of high penalties. I must confess that I agree with Mr Warzech in the context of, in particular, Ostrołęka, that the most expensive energy is the undelivered one. Yes, sir, the most expensive energy is the one that is not delivered because it creates a risk of downtime, of not supplying electricity to households, to factories. Then we'll agree on that. I also agree with Minister Tchórzewski, who said that in our national interest, all political forces are to finally carry out an energy transformation in Poland and to stop pretending that we have no problem. The last thing is prosumer photovoltaics. By the way, Minister, why are you limiting investment (the bell) by dissuading potential investors with new legislative plans limiting individual customers' yield from this type of installation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u329	Four Members have asked questions. Krzysztof Gadowski will be the first question to be asked. I'm closing the list of requests for questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u330	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Indeed, the inhabitants of Poles are not interested in how the current Minister is arguing with the former Minister who introduced this law on the power market, and the one who wants to change it today, but is interested, Minister, whether the power charge will increase again, because it was introduced this year, and whether the household will receive more in the accounts. This is the most important and this concerns Poles and I would ask for such an answer from the Minister. My voters from Rybnik would like another information: What's next with Rybnik's power plant? How will it be modernised? We also have a Łaziska power plant in the constituency. This power plant is also in need. There's talk of her liquidation. We would like to hear what the plans are, and how will you continue in this process of restructuring or transformation of electricity? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u331	Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u332	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are presented with a very extensive and specialized project. However, a statistical Pole, who is little in the European Union's tail in terms of wages, still gets heart palpitations every month after receiving the electricity bill. On the other hand, the government calms Poles and says that 25 years will be better. It is much less common for the government to mention 2 billion spent on energy blocks, which now needs to be dismantled for another 1 billion. He does not mention a 30-year contract with miners, under which we will pay them an allowance, when other Poles are given a year or less. Why is it that this money is not also financed compensation for the increase in electricity prices for all Poles? I ask kindly, Minister, for a written reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u333	Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u334	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The impact assessment of the regulation on this law, which we are talking about, states: it sets rules to ensure the functioning of the energy market and environmental policy requirements, including CO2 emission limits. Ladies and gentlemen! You have no longer complied with the 2020 limit agreed with the European Union, now with renewable energy sources, now you will not meet by 2030, where we have the next necessary threshold. A friend asked: Have new energy sources been generated? I'm also asking this question, because so far it hasn't worked, but you've killed wind energy, now. [[Applause]] Photovoltaics, you want to limit the yield to (the bell) possible customers. After 2025, coal plants cease to function. What government plans do you have in this regard? Because... Thank you, Member. ...as a friend said, the most important thing is that we have as low energy prices as possible and as clean air as possible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u335	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Wojciech Zubowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u336	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister, a few questions. I would just ask for confirmation, because there have been some questions and some, I think, corrective information about the original power market law. First: Could not introduce these solutions in 2018 result in losses of about PLN 10 billion per year as estimated at that time? That's once. Secondly, Minister: Did the introduction of the power market allow electricity-producing companies to start investing to ensure stability in terms of funding? And thirdly, Minister, I would also like to ask you for information: Is the introduction of the power market, the introduction of the so-called. the power charge has slowed down the rise in energy prices mainly now dependent on carbon costs? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u337	Thank you very much. Mrs Beata Maciejewska, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u338	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about these financial and household issues. Will they have an increased power charge? Whether you can say at what level or at what percentage in relation to e.g. For today's prices? On the other hand, how will it also affect whether you have such detailed information on this energy-intensive market? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u339	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Dziadzio, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u340	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I will try to address the questions very comprehensively, although some questions need to be addressed individually. Firstly, the question, Mr Gadowski: Will the power charge increase? Yeah, of course it will. And we know, we've talked about this, and we have some clarity here. Second question: What's next with Rybnik? So we're waiting for all these units to enter the power market actually, so we'll see what the situation is. Another question, Laziska. We have an investment plan related also to the social contract in Laziska. I think it's satisfying because it's progressing. The answer to Mr Szczepański's question was to be given in writing. Good. Ms Chmiel's question. Yes, in general, all government work on renewable energy sources is treated very comprehensively and as a priority. The development of photovoltaics, the development of offshore, the development of other renewable energy sources is promoted and will be recommended for all government and state activities. All these issues are described very closely in the state's energy policy. This is a compass that sets out the path of energy transformation for us. Of course, everything takes place taking into account the security of the state. As regards the question of price increases, I would like to confirm that today the increase in capacity market charges is between PLN 1.72 and PLN 10 depending on the recipient. With regard to the individual recipient, the monthly increase will be around 50 gr. As far as energy-intensive consumers are concerned, this is a very important part of the functioning of this part of the economy, on average the costs associated with the capacity market will fall by 80%. So today the price of 1 kWh is 0.7 gr, and it goes down to about 0.2 gr, so this profile goes down by about 80%. Our energy-intensive companies will therefore become more competitive on the European market. I will refer to Mr Zubowski's question. Firstly, whether the lack of capacity market could have caused losses of PLN 10 billion. Yes, I'm saying yes. If he wasn't there, there might be a loss in energy. The capacity market has changed and investment has developed. The investments that were planned were made. Most of the investments we are talking about, which are financed by the power market - for example. o Kozienice, Jaworzno, Opole, Turów, Lower Odra - this is the element that allowed us to... These investments were financed through the capacity market. Question left. I just need to check... I've already answered that. How will the power market affect farms? I already said that the increase is about 50 gr. I also answered the question of competitiveness. Companies will remain competitive on the market. I think all the questions were... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: My master has not answered.]] Please? [[Ooh, Ooh, Ooh, Ooh, Ooh, Ooh, Ooh, ……]] Oh, Ostrołęka. Good. As far as Ostrołęka is concerned, it participates in the power market as well as all other investments. It's normal. Action has already been taken. Ostrołęka actually already participates in the power market. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: I asked why you were lowering...]] No, we're not. I think I've already answered all the questions. Thank you. [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u341	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u342	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This Decision shall enter Poland has decided to introduce a power market, i.e. to switch from a single commodity market: only energy to a dual commodity market: energy and power. The power market has allowed the modernisation of a significant part of the generation assets needed for the proper balancing of capacity under the national electricity system and has enabled the construction of new blocks and the achievement of positive economic results. In addition, the power market promotes the development of renewable energy sources and activates new market participants, among others. investors planning to build energy storage facilities. This amendment results from the need to align national provisions with the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2019/943 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 June 2019 on the internal market in electricity. 1. Whether the changes made under the project will affect the height of the so-called. A power charge? 2. What tools to support the implementation of new low-carbon sources of energy generation are included in this project?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u343	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of items 11 and 12 of the agenda: The request for the cancellation of Mr. Richard Terletki from the role of Vice-Marshal of the Sejm... [[Room voice: Marshal, toilet break.]] [[Voice from the room: One minute break.]] One minute break? Okay, I'm declaring a minute's rest. [[But why?]] [[Voice from the room: We've been sitting here since...]] [[Voice from the room: 3 and 5 minutes break.]] In that case, ladies and gentlemen, I'm announcing a 15-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 min. 28 hrs. 18 min 46]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of items 11 and 12 of the agenda: Groups of Members, on the basis of Article. Article 10a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm have applied for the dismissal of Mr Richard Terlecki as Vice-Marshal of the Sejm. I would like to ask Mr Tomasz Zimoch to provide a justification for the 1305 printing proposal. [[Marshal, thank you so much for agreeing. We'll be divided. Thank you very much.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u344	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Mr. Marshal! His political statement was the direct reason for the motion to appeal Vice-Marshal Richard Terlecki. But let's stay in the sports scenery today, at least at the beginning. Sports teach respect to rivals, to opponents. Gloria victis, glory to the victor, not woe to the victor, Mr. Marshal. Glory to the winner, which is respect for the rival. You can move these words and into the world of politics. A political rival can be disliked, disagreed with, but this political rival must be respected. In the Seym, the Marshal of the Sejm should show respect for every Member, and Richard Terlecki has been recognized in recent years as a symbol of poor standards of parliamentary governance and disregard for opposition rights. The events in the column hall of December 2016 could be mentioned. After all, Mr. Marshal, you gave a statement in which you stated directly that the room was organized at the time in order to prevent Members of the opposition from going to the presidential table. Let us, however, remain at the events of this term of office. In November 2020, Vice-Marshal Terlecki did not stand up for Barbara Nowacka, a Member of the Commission, to whom the police used tear gas. Nor did he stand up for Margaret Beyat's messenger. [[Voice from the room: Magdalena.]] Magdalena Beyat. Excuse me, Member. [[He doesn't even know his name.]] I know, I know a name. [[Voice from the hall: Name knows, name doesn't know.]] Yet it was evidently a violation of the integrity of the two messengers. During this term, Vice-Marshal Terlecki was punished by the ethics committee for his words: tap the forehead addressed to the prominent Member of the House of the Republic of Poland. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And this is already in the context of the recidivism, because it should be noted that, in the previous term, the ethics committee drew attention to the inappropriate behaviour of Marshal Terletsky towards Mr Sławomir Nitras, whom he then called a clown. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] On 15 April 2020, at the meeting of the Sejm, Ryszard Terlecki interfered with his statements and asked Ms Katarzyna Kretkowska to restore her due time, he commented with the words: no loss. On 27 October 2020, in the Parliamentary Chamber, you addressed the following words to the Messenger: I regret to say that there are Members in the Chamber among the Members of the Left and the Civic Platform who have masks with signs of delusion resembling Hitlerjugend and the SS symbols. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Isn't it? That's what happened.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, it was.]] On 15 August 2020, following the speech of Ms Klaudia Jachira, Vice-Marshal Terlecki said: There is no advice for foolishness. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Did you listen to that speech?]] And on 4 May 2021, you knowingly refused to speak to the Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziobra, during the discussion on the ratification of the decision of the Council of the European Union on the system of the Union's own resources, despite his will to speak. [[Applause]] And yesterday, Mr. Marshal, you came out of a formal meeting. [[Right.]] One of the Seym Halls received the name of the distinguished Member of Olga Krósanówska. Because her daughter said something unfavorable to you? [[Don't tell the marshal what to do anymore.]] The above cases indicate that Vice-Marshal Richard Terlecki does not perform his function with dignity. His statements are right in the state, they are offensive to Members, and the way in which he performs his duties violates the rights of both the opposition and the members of the Council of Ministers. Dear Messengers! Marshal Gosievska, who keeps commenting here, reminds me that according to the article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm... [[Who are you talking to now?]] ...Vice-Marshals of the Sejm replace the Marshal in the scope of his appointment. The duties of the marshal shall be in accordance with Article. 10 will uphold the dignity, seriousness and rights of the Sejm and represent the Sejm, worthy of representation. [[Voice from the room: How are you dressed?]] In the light of the above, there is no doubt that Richard Terlecki does not give the guarantees of proper performance of these duties, even because, Mr. Marshal, the words gloria victis, which are so valued in the world of sport, the glory that has won, are, unfortunately, foreign to you here in Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u345	Thank you, sir. I am now asking Mr Krzysztof Smishek to present also the justification for the request from print 1305. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u346	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The left-wing club, together with the Polish 2050 Circle, decided to submit an application for the cancellation of Mr.Ryszard Terletki from the function of Deputy Marshal of the Polish Sejm for many reasons. Mr Tomasz Zimoch mentioned some of them. I'll try to tell you which is the direct cause of our request. Mr Ryszard Terlecki has long accustomed us to his arrogant statements. Half-poor that he insulted Members and Members of the opposition in this way. They say dogs bark, caravan goes on. But Mr. Terletki's arrogance knows no bounds. Exactly the same way Mr Terlecki insults citizens, sejm journalists or recently representatives of the Belarusian opposition persecuted by an authoritarian regime led by an arrogant and arrogant satrapa who thinks that he is free to do anything, arrogant and arrogant satrapa, who would like to license the opposition and tell people what they are allowed and what they are not allowed to do. Sound familiar? Besides, it's not just Mr. Richard Terletki's condition. The Lord is only the face of a certain disease that has touched the Law and Justice, a disease that is all over your formation. You used to have the motto: humility, work, moderation. You turned them into arrogance, nepotism, and loose conduct. PiS, government, messengers, Members, and your shit in the Treasury companies. You don't know the boundaries anymore. If you can do anything, you think you can do anything, but you can't. You, Mr. Marshal, forgot that as one of the most important people in the country you are allowed less, not more, because your voice, of horror, can be seen as the voice of the Polish state and your face as the face of this government of the ruling formation. And very often this country and this government will compromise you in the internal and international arena. In a different situation, it would be possible to advise someone like that to think twice before speaking out loud whether it is worth writing faster than he thinks - apparently in the case of Marshal Terlecki's hands are much faster than the head - but Mr.Ryszard Terlecki in terms of arrogance is a repeater, and it is unreformable. Someone who simply cannot behave differently than arrogant should not act as Marshal of the Polish Sejm. Someone who does not understand that the interest of the Belarusian opposition coincides with the Polish reason for the state that we should support it above divisions, should disappear from Polish politics and seek help in Moscow himself, because someone who disrupts the dramatic fight of the Belarusian opposition, undermines the sincere intentions of courageous activists, and especially activists, is only a useful sidekick of Putin. What Mr Terlecki said and wrote simply cut off the wings of those who fight the regime, those who pay for their fight with beatings, rapes, illegal deprivation of liberty or torture, sometimes with life. A few weeks ago I had the opportunity to meet Raman Pratasiewicz's parents in Wroclaw. I saw their tears, I saw their despair, their parental concern for life and the fate of their beloved son. I also saw gratitude for what Poland is doing for their country as well as their son. I also saw hope that this nightmare would end someday, because the countries of the West are on the side of democracy, freedom and human rights, because Poland can be counted on because it stands on the side of everything their son is fighting for. And then one of the most important people in the country disappears this hope, because the Deputy Marshal of the Sejm involves Swietlana Cichanouska, a activist of the democratic opposition, in a Polish hellhole, in a party jazz that does not take prisoners, who does not care that right across the Polish border we are dealing with North Korea of Europe, because the most important thing for him is whether Cichanouska meets the Polish opposition or not. Light Cichanouska drives around the world, does not give in to the fight for her country, includes more countries and governments, other international institutions and organizations. It continuously mobilises the institutions of the European Union, including the active European Parliament. In every democratic country, it is accepted as a president-elect, with due respect for her, only in our country we find her dejected, only with disrespect, but with us she is involved in political and party hell. [[But what is this nonsense?]] Only with us is the deputy marshal of the Polish Sejm sending her to Putin, the same one who, hand in hand with Lukashenka, cooks hell for Belarusians. I'm ashamed to meet Belarusians when I'm having a conversation with them about what else we can do for them. Because instead of support plans, I have to explain whether Poland is with a democratic Belarusian opposition, or whether it closes its eyes on tragedy and injustices occurring in the East. I must reassure them that Marshal Terlecki is not all Poland, because Poles and Poles know perfectly well where the good and truth lies, and these are where the free and courageous Belarusians are, who are supported by brave and righteous Poles. The words of Marshal Terletki agree with the Polish state's right, something which has so far been considered to be suprapolitical and cross-party, into something that slipped away from the division into opposition and ruling coalition. And this was the cause of democracy, stability and freedom of Belarus. Marshal Terlecki involved the Belarusian issue in the current Polish policy and thus takes away the hope of thousands of activists and activists of the Belarusian opposition. These words are all the more surprising because Marshal Terlecki himself was once an opponent. In the 1970s, he himself sought support from those who then lived on the democratic side of the world. [[But he didn't involve other countries.]] Thus, his life story is also crossed out by this expression. Because historical merits and being a combatant do not slow down from being decent to understand the political and democratic processes that are taking place today in our eastern neighbours. Mr. Marshal, after an international storm, met with Mrs. Cichanouska. He assured her that Poland supports democratic pursuits - that's good. But unfortunately, I have a deep impression, which is shared by many Poles, as well as by Belarusians and international opinion, that this took place too late and unfortunately in a bad style. Today, it is Lithuania that takes over in support of the Belarusians. There is no trust in Poland. And perhaps Mrs. Cichanousk assured Marshal Terletki at the meeting that he did not hold grudges that everything was okay, but trust was damaged. The question is who will the democratic opposition turn to in the following days, months and years. Lithuania or Poland? But not only did the Belarusian opposition activist fall victim to Mr Terletki's wisdom. There were other groups. Do you remember the words, "Why, they're normal?" It's about LGBT people. Looking at the morning scenes in the Seym, one can safely say that unfortunately, you do not deviate from Poland's chief homophobe, Przemysław Czarnka. The words should be followed by responsibility, which is why I am addressing the Members of the United Right, to you, because I speak with you repeatedly in the halls of the Seym and in the clowns. How many times do you want to shine your eyes for Mr. Richard Terletki? Isn't it worth putting Poland's interests above the party business for once? [[Voice from the room: We never glowed.]] After all, some of you - as I have already said - admit in the spirit that someone like Mr. Richard Terlecki is more damaging to you than he is helping. You have a chance to behave decently. Now, to conclude, I'm not gonna tell you like Mr. Richard Terlecki: Sit down, you clown. Let me just say this: The Left will be pleased to vote in favour of the motion to dismiss Mr.Ryszard Terletki from the role of Vice-Marshal of the Polish Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Don't embarrass yourselves.]] [[Sit down.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u347	Thank you. Now, please take the floor of Mr Boris Budka, to state the reasons for the request for printing 1306. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u348	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The very way this debate is defined shows how you treat the Polish Parliament, how you treat your responsibilities, how you treat your citizens. [[Applause]] [[How?]] Mr. Vice-Marshal Terlecki has become a symbol, a symbol of your contempt for anyone who has a different opinion, for anyone who dares to think, to feel differently than the current authority wants. But Marshal Terlecki is not isolated. This is not an ordinary Member who performs this function by accident. Mr. Marshal is the head of your club. [[He's a professor.]] Mr. Marshal is one of the most important officers in this power camp. When he speaks, we know very well that this is not an isolated voice. This is the line of your party appointed by President Kaczyński. If you'd cut yourselves off from those words for once, if you'd just sprinkled your head with ashes and said, "Yes, he's out of line." He overreacted when he insulted a Belarusian opposition activist. He overreacted when he spoke with contempt, sneakers and arrogance to parliamentarians and parliamentarians from other political factions. But no. You guys are always in denial. You guys are always defending things. Undefensible. Why? Because pride, arrogance, and boots have become a way of ruling. They became your I.D., they became a symbol of this power. [[I think you have a mirror.]] Today, when you defend Mr Terletki's Vice-Marshal, you scream out of these benches, you get the hang of it. [[Voice from the room: But no...]] [[We're listening to the takeover.]] Because this is your only way to have a political dialogue. Today you will not dare to say a very simple word. [[Voice from the room: No.]] Words: Sorry. [[For what? For your eight years?]] [[Voice from the hall: For what?]] I'm afraid you're in your... - I don't want to use strong words - in this clutter you have gone so far that it blinds you to thinking about Poland. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: First time about Poland...]] When Vice-Marshal Terlecki, in an absolutely unacceptable manner, referred to the President-in-Office, the Light of Cichanouska, instead of apologizing, instead of asking for an honorary resignation, you continued to do so. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] And enjoy... [[Voice from the room: From what?]] ...that the leader of the Belarusian opposition is the person who reached out to save your marshal. She did it for Polish-Belarusian relations. She didn't see you insulting the Belarusian people calling for freedom. [[No.]] She didn't look at the fact that you sent her back to Putin, she didn't look at the fact that Mr. Vice-Marshal Terecki's words quoted Russian and Belarusian agencies, but she reached out because, unlike you, she cared about her country, she cared about good relations with Poland. [[Applause]] Hers. It depends on something you don't understand. You've completely lost that public hearing. You don't know what dialogue is. You don't know what parliamentaryism is. I will not repeat those words which Mr Terlecki, Vice-Marshal Terlecki, said to Members of Parliament, with such contempt, because I do not require you to respect me. I don't require respect for my friends and colleagues because you're witnessing to yourself, but one thing I want in this courtroom is respect for all voters. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal Terletsky's attitude is not only insulting this part of the room, but it is insulting every Polish woman and every Pole who has a different opinion than your camp of power. Of course, I have a lot of quotes in front of me. Even his friend at the club says, "He's a pest." Yes, about Senator Jackowski. Hell, that's talking about us, but even your friend says, "He's a pest." [[Voice from the room: What's wrong with that?]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] I'm not going to argue with you because the polemics in this room have long since disappeared, just since you've served as Marshal Terlecki. But yesterday, there was a thing that completely contradicts Mr Terletki's ability to sit in this honorable position. Yesterday you showed the essence of what hypocrisy you are dealing with even with symbols that you usually have on your banners. Yesterday, on the third anniversary of the death of Marshal Olga Krósanowski, there was a special ceremony which combined all political factions, brought everyone together in this room. We wanted to worship a prominent person together. Olga Krzesanowska during the war was a Girl Scout of the Grey Troops. For fighting the invader she received the Cross of Valiant. In 1980, she joined the "Solidarity. " She was a member of the coordination committee of the health care department. Later for many years she was a Member of the Sejm, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm of defined values - until yesterday I thought she was common to all of us. What does it turn out to be? When Deputy Marshal Terlecki hears a few words of truth about using the prosecution or the judiciary for political purposes from her daughter's mouth, whose father died in a Stalin prison, what does he do? It's ostentatious. [[Voice from the room: Very good.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is an unprecedented thing. We can skip all our disputes. We may forget all the words he has spoken to the Members of the opposition, but with this gesture he has offended the symbols that have been sacred to all of us so far. [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] He insulted the symbols of the Home Army. He insulted the symbols of Warring Poland. [[You're insolent.]] He insulted the great sacrifices our fellow countrymen suffered in difficult times, because it was because of this insolence, Mr. Marshal... [[The voice from the room: Insolence is what you say now.]] ...by misunderstanding the most important thing about what dialogue is... [[But you said you wouldn't have a dialogue with us.]] ...what is an agreement, you have left the room ostentatiously. Today you have lost the opportunity to represent us all. [[Applause]] Because you're not Vice-Marshal PiS in this room. You're not in this room when you're in your place as a marshal, a member of the PiS, head of the PiS club. [[Voice from the room: Just?]] The Lord, sitting here, is the Marshal of the Sejm, the Marshal of the entire Sejm. [[And who is the Marshal of the Seym? Isn't that an envoy? An unelected man?]] And you are absolutely insolent in receiving the voice, commenting, insulting. You bear witness to the entire political class, and that is not the consent of the Members and Members of the opposition. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] You have no right to represent the Polish Parliament. You have no right to represent the people you despise. Please bear in mind that the dignity of a man enshrined in the article. 30 Constitutions are inalienable. The dignity of man should determine the values on which we will work together, and you are able to... [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] [[Voice from the hall: And you will teach us values?]] [[Voice from the hall: Culture a little.]] [[Voice from the room: Come to your senses. Calm down.]] [[Voice from the hall: Are you talking about values? About respect, about values?]] [[Voice from the hall: What are you saying, man?]] Ladies and gentlemen, I recommend we hold on a little longer. Let's just hold on a little longer. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And you, Deputy Marshal, show the true face of this power. [[Voice from the room: Insolent.]] [[Voice from the room: No culture.]] If you are unable to separate yourself from the shameful words of Minister Czarnek insulting Poles and Poles, if you can only confirm this, then you bear witness. [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] [[Voice from the room: Manipulation!]] [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] Today, unfortunately, you've taken your seats in these benches to defend things that are unprotectable. [[Voice from the room: We have the right. They chose us. People chose us.]] You guys get along, yell out, just confirming that this proposal is legitimate. [[Voice from the room: We'll see.]] [[Voice from the room: But what conclusion?]] You've been rehabilitated from the parliamentary debate. You destroyed the parliamentary debate because you're afraid of the truth. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: I'm gonna need a break.]] Mrs. Marshal! I'm not surprised, because today, with this debate we're in, you're witnessing to each other. You guys are thinking about polemicism? After all, you're acting like you're just confirming that the example is coming from above. But how can you not support your party buddy when you have ordinary people in deep contempt? [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] [[Who's got people in contempt?]] After all, it was your CEO who drove a limousine into a closed cemetery while everyone else was sitting in their homes, they couldn't honor the memory of their people. However, please get back to the point, sir, okay? Mr... And today... [[Voice from the courtroom: Marshal, you censor the speeches.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: This is not a request to dismiss Members of the PiS.]] Sir, please... The session is conducted by me, not you. And I just wanted to remind you that at every session of the Seym, I ask you not to shout. You're not responding. And right now, you're asking for complete silence? [[The voice from the room: How do you...]] Mr. President, the beam... [[A voice from the room: But it is your duty...]] You can see splinter in someone else's eye, but you can't see splinter in your beam. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: You are impartial.]] Continue, sir. So if, today before this debate, anyone had any doubts as to whether the opposition's motion to dismiss Mr. Vice-Marshal was justified or not, I think that the course of this debate shows that Mr. Marshal embodies all the worst qualities of parliamentarianism that you brought to this House. Once again, I would like to stress that you have turned the place of the debate, the place of the political dispute into the arena of the only right party. [[Voice from the room: Yes...]] [[The voice from the room: Well, who's talking?]] [[Voice from the room: No...]] You don't understand what dialogue is, you don't understand what parliamentarianism is. [[Voice from the room: Who are you?]] You would like to close this House and vote from Nowogrodzka, all your votes would be given to one man who would press there. You don't need a parliament. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: We have trust.]] [[Voice from the room: Herezje.]] And today, when we're talking about the motion to revoke Mr. Vice-Marshal Terletsky, [[Applause]] I was hoping, Marshal, that you, on behalf of your majority in Parliament, would apologize for this behavior that you would be able to... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] You've got to be kidding me, sir. ...that you'll be able to... What are you even saying? [[Voice from the room: What he says.]] [[Voice from the courtroom, Marshal...]] [[Voice from the hall: You're not a reviewer. This isn't school.]] But take it easy. [[This isn't a school. You're not the principal of the school.]] That's an example. That's an example. But... [[Voice from the room: It's time.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! [[Voice from the room: Boris. You're not here anyway.]] This debate shows that it was not even necessary to justify this proposal, because your marshal plays a role that is not the role of the Marshal of the Sejm, but the role appointed by your party guru. I regret the fact that the life story that may have once been a model for my generation has been crossed over in recent years by this kind of arrogance and shoe. [[And what's the pattern?]] I can't really understand how a man with a past like a man who once fought for ideals, like a man who once fought for Polish freedom... [[Voice from the room: He's fighting right now.]] [[About ideals and values you don't have.]] ...today it has become a symbol of how you can fight your own citizens. I can't understand that a man with a resume like this can cross everything he's achieved over the last few years. But unfortunately, this debate also shows that there is no reflection on your part. You used to talk about humility, you used to talk about work, and today what distinguishes you became pride, arrogance and boot. [[Let's talk about Grodzki's honor.]] [[Voice from the room: When Grodzki...]] [[A voice from the hall: 'Cause it's a matter of honor.]] And you can still scream a lot, you can still insult us, but it will not change the fact that the Vice-Marshal of the Sejm Mr.Ryszard Terlecki has lost his moral right to perform this honorable function. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] The function of Vice-Marshal of the Sejm is an incredible prestige. [[Yes. And that's why you deserve a professor.]] This is a commitment to the entire House. This is above all a commitment to voters that they are able to represent the High House over political divisions. With one entry you crossed 30 years of Polish Eastern policy. [[Applause]] You sent the opposition leader back to Moscow, and then you didn't even say the word "I'm sorry." You just have to go. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: two, one, zero!]] [[Boris, you don't get a good clap.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u349	The Sejm agreed that it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in discussions on these items on the agenda. I'm opening a discussion. Małgorzata Gosiewska, Law and Justice will be the first to speak. Please, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u350	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Let's calm this debate down and talk substantively. Let's talk about Belarus, ladies and gentlemen. [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] Since the recent presidential elections in Belarus... [[Terlecki's worse.]] ...falsified in such a way that it was visible to the whole world, we see how the Lukashenka regime has intensified its aggressive actions towards its citizens. [[Keep your voice down.]] [[Voice from the room: How do you keep it down?]] [[Voice from the room: How about Terletsky?]] Belarusians, who have had enough of the promo dictator, dared to express it in mass demonstrations and protests. The regime responded with repression and persecution, illegal detention, arrest of many people, torture, and the act of state terrorism, kidnapping of aircraft, arrest of Belarusian oppositionist Mr. Protasiewicz. Our Poles, our countrymen from the Union of Poles in Belarus, are also very strongly affected by the repression of Łukaszenkowski. We have very disturbing information about the health of Andrzej Poczobuta and Angelica Boris. I would like to stress very strongly that Poland takes events in Belarus very seriously. We are on the side of Belarusian civil society. Poland has supported and supported democratic processes in our neighbours. And, ladies and gentlemen, in such a difficult, dramatic situation in which Belarus found itself, people or groups who want to benefit from it have become active in Poland, to raise political capital using the Belarusian opposition. Shame! [[Voice from the room: Shame.]] [[Shame on you.]] That's what your politician, Rafał Trzaskowski, did, who... [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] ...who for the money of the German Konrad Adenauer Foundation... [[Why are you lying?]] ...organizes an anti-government initiative. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the room: The truth hurts.]] And all in order, ladies and gentlemen, to cut out your seat on the sinking Civic Platform. [[Applause]] This must be made clear: it organises activities that - it is not a secret - may be the beginning of a new political party. [[Voice from the hall: Aren't you ashamed?]] And that's what you're afraid of. For his individual, private career consciously, intentionally, impudently and cynically, in one word, he totally used Swielana Cichanouska, leader of the Belarusian democratic opposition. [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] Shame, ladies and gentlemen! [[That's not true, Marshal.]] [[Voice from the hall: Shame on you.]] And that's the context that needs to be taken into account in this whole thing... [[Voice from the room: Why aren't you responding?]] ...because, ladies and gentlemen, every idea can be warped and warped. And that's what your politician Rafał Trzaskowski did... [[And that's about it, Marshal? Yes?]] ...inviting Mrs. Cichanouska to Campus Poland of the Future. [[You'll think about what you're doing.]] You want to review the club statement? Don't review it. It is very sad that in this way... [[Russian pride.]] ...treats, or rather uses, the person who fights for the freedom of his country, for the freedom of his compatriots. In this context, the entry of Deputy Marshal Richard Terletki, who was shocked, referred to such a serious matter as the manipulative exploitation of the idea of freedom of citizens of Belarus by oppositional Polish politics. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: No.]] Let me remind you: The law and justice support the citizens of Belarus in their quest for freedom and independence, without taking advantage of their own political actions, ladies and gentlemen. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] It was the government of law and justice that quickly and efficiently, immediately, from the beginning of mass protests, organized aid for the oppressed. I will only remind you a few actions: facilitating entry into Poland and access to work, scholarships for expelled students, assistance to independent media and NGOs supporting civil society in Belarus. The value of the aid scheme for Belarus, which the government has prepared, is how much? 50 million PLN. [[But we're all...]] [[Voice from the hall: Who are you all?]] The aid package "Solidarni z Belorussia" and the support of students and academics. [[The voice from the hall: You gave...]] You don't want to hear it. You don't want to see this. [[Don't give me any gold...]] Marshal, I'm so sorry. I'll add your time. [[Count it in an hour, 'cause it's about Trzaskowski...]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is a classic example of interference, but after this side of the vote, you protest very much. [[Voice in the courtroom: Marshal, you decide...]] Please remain calm and let the speaker speak to the end, okay? [[Voice from the room: you don't review.]] [[Why don't you review your voice? That's about it?]] May I? I could list a lot of these activities. I'll also mention the house, 600 meters What were you doing? [[Time, Marshal.]] And what were you doing during your reign? Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Marshal, time's up.]] The famous case of Ales Bialacki... [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] ...i.e. the disclosure to the Belarusian regime by the Polish prosecutor's office of data of this opponent. [[Time's up, Marshal.]] What was the result? 4.5 years in prison, ladies and gentlemen. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] Aren't you ashamed? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Three months after Bialyacki's conviction... [[Time's up.]] ...by the Belarusian court of the Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs under the direction of your Minister Radosław Sikorski... [[The voice from the hall: scandal, disgrace!]] ... sent about 30 Belarusian opponents PIT tax returns with sensitive data. The correspondence sent by registered letter from the Ministry's logo. [[Marshal, is today some kind of limit?]] Some of the correspondence was already open when they got it. [[And you want a marshal... think about it.]] Let's be honest: you gave Lukashenka some information that just hit the Belarusian opposition. [[No, your marshal, they're all equal. Either you're taking everyone's time or you're not.]] And you're not ashamed of that? Don't you remember? Here's another thing. Do you remember the Andrei Zhukov case? [[Your marshal, what's the limit? I'm not waiting. Or we're all equals...]] [[Charek, no, they're equal...]] Belarusian refugee sentenced to 3 years in prison by Polish courts in Bialystok for your governments based on your actions. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Marshal, it's minute after minute. Can you get to the end?]] Does it hurt? Does it hurt? Your marshal, please proceed to the end, okay? Please. I'm on my way to the end. Recently, Mr. Marshal Terlecki... [[He's already in Ukraine?]] ...he met with the Light of Cichanouska. The matter has been clarified, which you did not notice. After this meeting, she said: Ryszard Terlecki, Marek Pęk, Włodzimierz Bernacki visited me in Vilnius today and expressed their full support for the Belarusian democratic movement. They announced a continuation of scholarship programmes for our students. They assured me that all parties in Poland are behind Belarus. I'm just wondering, is it really all of them? Because we're doing it, and you're just screaming. [[Applause]] So, ladies and gentlemen, why don't we do something together? Meet me at the embassy of Belarus. [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]] Another demonstration is being prepared and let's be there together... [[Voices from the hall: Time, time.]] Thank you very much. ...as we used to support you when we were in opposition... [[Voice from the hall: You don't care about the rules, as you can see after this speech.]] ...in the fight for democracy in Belarus. Thank you very much. Mr. Robert Tyszkiewicz! Do you remember when we used to do this together... [[Voice from the room: Thank you, Marshal.]] ...how we supported the Chubby together, even though you were in charge? I wasn't attacking you. I was fighting for the Żukowiec. [[Voice from the room: Time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u351	Thank you, Marshal, thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Two minutes and forty-two.]] [[Where are you going? Sit down. Sit down!]] [[Voice from the room: But what is it?]] Mr President, what is this? [[Voice from the room: What is it?]] [[Sit down, Terlecki!]] Mr... [[It's what we do here.]] Mr President, what is this? What does that mean? What kind of behavior is that? [[Voice from the room: What is it?]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr, what does that mean?]] [[Voice from the O.R.: Get down from here!]] [[Your marshal, I was convinced...]] Did I give you the floor? [[It was a quote.]] Wait a minute. Did I give you the floor? Step out of the podium, please. I didn't give you the floor. [[The voice from the room, you scumbag...]] Step out of the podium, please. I haven't asked you yet. [[Sit down!]] I haven't asked you yet. [[Get off!]] [[Voice from the room: Get off this podium]] [[I'm gonna say the same thing anyway.]] [[Voice from the room: Clown.]] There you go, Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Coalition. Please. [[Voice from the room: A woman's boxer.]] [[Voice from the room: Apologize.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u352	I don't recall the same reaction when you used the same words as Marshal Terlecki: I didn't know he was gonna get up, I didn't know he was gonna come out, I didn't know he wasn't gonna sit. [[Voice from the courtroom: The women's boxer!]] Look, Mrs. Gosievska said nine minutes... [[Voice from the room: But it makes sense.]] ...and exchanged her name ten times: Trzaskowski. She never once mentioned her name, Terlecki. Not once. How did she defend him? What's his argument? Mr. Terlecki didn't want to sit, nor did I. But what I'm trying to say is, he's a historian... We remember all this, you remember - we are talking about this House - as he spoke to parliamentarians, as he spoke to parliamentarians. And do you remember when he pulled the microphone and cable out of the camera to a reporter in the hallway? He was pulling it out. And do you remember when he passed a resolution on the release of journalists from the Sejm? Do the reporters remember who threw them in the barracks next to the building? It is our determination that journalists can report on the work of the Sejm. [[Applause]] Because you would have brought this Sejm to the Sejm that Orlen reported to the media. That's what you'd want it to look like. How is this different from Belarus? It's also about what you've just done: you're prolonging your time, and you're interrupting your time. And how do you know I won't extend your time, sir? You're learning from Terletsky. And Mr. Terleck... Don't interrupt me. Don't interrupt me. And Mr. Terlecki, I have one thing to say. [[A woman's boxer.]] [[Voice from the room: Get down.]] Ms.Cichanouska helped Terlecek to get out of a dramatic situation concerning Poland, in a difficult situation for Polish diplomacy she behaved as she should, helped you to get out of your problem. [[Applause]] The problem is that Poland should help Belarus, not the Belarusian opposition - to Polish ministers and Polish marshals, [[Applause]] who behave like Lukashenka, just like Lukashenka at the PGR. I, Mr Terlecki, who is a historian who can speak as he pleases about his father, but he is to address Members with respect, I would like to remind you of one thing: he will become history. There were various marshals, there were great marshals, there were marshals who went into history in a compromising way. [[There were women's boxers.]] I will quote to you such a paraphrase of the great work of Polish culture: Nice ladies, why pytos, after all Gucwa is not Witos. [[A woman's boxer.]] [[A woman's boxer.]] You will go, man, into history as an episode, a disgusting episode of the Polish Parliament. I hope, Your Marshal - also for your own good, that you should not be ruled, as he has so far ruled - that this episode will end today, because even the members of the Confederation say that this way of exercising authority is a disgrace to the House. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]] [[Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u353	Thank you very much. [[And how do you like it when you guys are having a debate at the game? It's in English.]] Mr Tomasz Lenz, the Civic Coalition, has the floor. Continue. Please. [[Voice from the room: Next boxer.]] [[I take it I can count on an extension of the speaking time a little bit, right? Because Mrs. Gosievska also...]] I would like you to acknowledge, however, that I am conducting the deliberations and that I am making the decisions. [[I'll take it.]] No, because I hear it all the time: what right, what mode... And what law are you trying to do instead of me? [[I don't do that.]] Please tell me, Mr President, you will see what my decision will be. [[I'm just saying that Mrs. Gosievska has been talking for a long time, which is why I'm asking. I asked you politely.]] Speak, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u354	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Boxer!]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask Members of the Law and Justice one fundamental thing: Who speaks in the Seym like this? Knock on the forehead - to Paweł Zalewski. [[Look who's talking.]] There's no way to do anything stupid - to Claudia Zachira. [[Voice from the hall: Who's Zachira?]] The opposition is crazy. The opposition is lying as usual. [[Game in the O.R.]] But don't interrupt me, listen, use your brain scrolls for a second, okay? The opposition's lying, the opposition's crazy. Today's rags - to those who try to evaluate events after 1945. Sit down, you clown. He's a freak about Jarosław Gowin's son. This is what Marshal Richard Terlecki says. [[But he doesn't beat people like you.]] [[Voice from the room: Honest to the pain.]] And, Marshal Witek, although we wouldn't judge your proceedings, such words are not used by you, nor by Deputy Marshal Zgorzelski, nor by Marshal Kidawa-Błońska, nor by Mr Marshal Czarzasa, nor by Mrs Gosievska, who also showed... Unfortunately, she wasn't talking about it, and we were very disappointed. [[What's the subject?]] My point is that only Mr Richard Terlecki is a few levels below the other members of the Sejm Bureau. [[Applause]] And just our Seym pulls down. [[Look who's talking.]] In one of Stanisław Barei's films, there was this statement: all Rysiki are cool guys. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] I guess at that time Stanisław Bareja did not expect that Ryszard Terlecki would be sent to the Polish parliament. [[Applause]] And underneath his nice and sympathetic face lies such a monster, which, ladies and gentlemen... [[Is that the monstrous monster that pushed Mr. Leśniak?]] Don't bother. Don't get so excited. [[Voice from the room: Easy there.]] ...which builds its position on radicalism (the bell), insulting other parliamentarians, insulting journalists, insulting opponents from other countries. He sits in the Bureau of the Polish Sejm. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the room: No!]] [[Oh, my gosh, how can you?]] [[Voice from the O.R.: He's not sitting because he left.]] [[Voice from the room: What are you like?]] That's enough. I'm gonna take your vote. And Law and Justice... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[To the ethics committee.]] [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desktops.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u355	Mr President, you have crossed the line here. I've always said, you can judge behavior, but not human behavior. What you just did is unacceptable. Thank you, sir. [[But I still...]] No, you don't have a voice anymore. 33 seconds you had... No. Absolutely not. [[Voice from the room: But how did you behave at this moment?]] It's outrageous, and that's what's gonna happen to my reaction. Mrs Magdalena Beyat, Left. There you go. [[Give me the ticket.]] Mr President, end of your speech. Mrs Magdalena Beyat, Left. There you go. [[Voice from the room: A woman's boxer.]] [[But the Member has two minutes left.]] [[Marshal, allow me...]] No, I won't, sir. [[Mrs. Gosievska crossed the lineup...]] [[Marshal Gosiewska spoke about important matters for our country.]] And you've crossed the line. [[Voice from the hall: A Gosievska does not.]] Member, please. [[The borders cross Marshal Terlecki, and you think quoting his words is crossing?]] [[Sit down.]] [[Don't hit our marshal lady.]] Ma'am, come in. Come in. Step into the podium, please. You're welcome. Mrs Magdalena Beyat. There you go, Member. Come on in. Member, please. Are you giving up on your speech, my fellow Member? [[I'm not quitting.]] You're welcome. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u356	Yeah, I know we're talking about Richard Terletsky today. However, I would like to take advantage of the moment that I now have to say about someone much more important - the Belarusians and Belarusians, who are still fighting for their rights bravely. [[Voice from the room: And may I? Yes, you can.]] I want to talk about the opposition activist and the politician of the Cichanou Light... [[Voice from the courtroom: Politics.]] ...who despite the entire propaganda machine, despite the lack of independent media and means of reaching voters, despite the fear of repression, was able to convince the vast majority of the Belarusian society. August 9th Ub. She won the first round of the presidential election in Belarus, she became the face of a call for democracy in Eastern Europe and although she was forced to leave the country, she did not stop fighting. Alexander Lukashenka refused to surrender his authority. Instead, he declared war on Belarusian society. When I say war, I don't mean symbolic war, political warfare, abrasion of ideas. I mean the physical violence used by the authorities against citizens, the forceful pacification of protests, kidnappings, beatings and intimidation. Up to this point, it is certainly known about four deaths, but there may be a lot more. The first was Alexander Tarajkouski, killed by the militia on the street during the first August protests. Alexander Wihor, 25-year-old, was beaten to death by militiamen a few days later. His mother says he didn't even participate in the protests, he was just going to see a girl, and he happened to be in the wrong place at the wrong time. The next one was Giennady Shutov, shot in the head at the demonstration. Finally, in November last year, Raman Bandarenka, an artist who renewed the mural representing and symbolizing the opposition, was put to death at the police station, fighting for democracy against the power of Lukashenka. Just a month ago, Witold Ashurak, a political prisoner, died in prison, serving a five-year sentence for organizing last year's protests. He was 50 years old, healthy. Authorities say the cause of death was a heart attack. No autopsy results. These may not be all fatalities, news doesn't easily cross the border. Since August Ub. A year ago, thousands of people were arrested, tortured and persecuted. And make it sound like it's in this room tonight. This is happening now in Belarus, now people are dying there, not somewhere far away, on the other side of the world, but in Minsk, 500 km from Warsaw. Therefore, first of all, I would like to celebrate the victims of the Belarusian regime, Tarajkouski, Wihora, Shutov, Bandarenka and Ashurak, a minute of silence. [[The assembled rise, a moment of silence]] Thank you. Secondly, I would like to say to Marshal Terleck: Attacking at this moment the Belarusian opposition, lack of support for its leaders and leaders because of some small, embarrassing wars with the Polish opposition is simply below the standards that should be expected of politicians in a democratic country. Your attitude brings shame not only to you, but also to the entire Sejm. Therefore, the Left, together with Poland 2050, filed a motion to dismiss you as Vice-Marshal and we encourage you to vote in favour. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[No, no, no, no, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u357	Thank you. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Coalition Poland, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u358	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, From the beginning of this debate I have been accompanied by such a depressing impression that this is probably one of the saddest moments in the history of contemporary Polish parliamentarianism. And we know the reason for this debate - the words made by Mr Terletki to the leader of the Belarusian opposition... [[Support?]] ...to find help in Moscow. I won't mind the words and actions of Mr. Marshal Terletsky. We know his uncouth personality and lack of an elementary culture of expression. [[Voice from the room: Well, something like that.]] [[Voice from the room: Don't push it.]] But he's a history professor. As a professor of history, he should know that from among the nations that formed the Polish Republic of the two Nations, the Belarusians were from the beginning the most friendly nation to us, the Arabic language was the language of the law firm, the official, official, Grand Duchy of Lithuania, with which our ancestors formed one great, wonderful European country. It is a nation with which we will hardly find any ethnic and religious tensions. We will not find in the history of Polish-Belarusian relations such moments, tragic moments that can be found in Volyn or in the history of Volyn. Professor Terlecki must know about this and must know that today's Belarusians - including almost 0.5 million Poles living in Belarus, not immigrants, not Polish people, but Poles born there, [[Applause]] who never wanted to leave that country - they dream of a democratic, free, independent country, which will have good relations with the Polish People's Republic. Professor Terlecki must know this and I cannot understand where they came from first in his head and then in his mouth the words: go to Moscow for help. Because Belarus as an area and Belarusians, their hearts, their minds, have always been competitive, and even, I would say, fighting between us and Russia, between the West and the East. The Belarusians indicated where they were closer during the recent presidential elections. They are closer to the West, closer to Poles. And sending them to Moscow is sending them in paws they don't want to be in, because they've been in those paws too long, and these paws have oppressed them too long. Mr. Marshal! I'll tell you what, I hope it's just a few more hours. I don't know how I once told you where this came from, but I will recall the words of your political friend, party and political mentor who, quoting Cornel Ujejski, said: other devils were active there. There must have been some devils active there. Take these devils out of your heart, out of your mind, out of your business. [[The voice from the room: Oh, my God!]] Because these devils poison Polish politics, poison Polish-Belarusian relations and make what is for our nation, for our country the key, i.e. the sense of security, vulnerable. I will tell you more, is at risk of feeling not only Poles and not only the Republic of Poland, the contemporary one, which with such difficulty, effort, we - our parents and in a moment our children - are building. They threaten the security of Europe. You must have known that, so deal with these devils. Don't take them to this room, don't put them next to you and don't tell me. Because there's a lot of good in the world. Czesław Niemen sang that it would prevail. I'm sure it will win, and I'd like you to be on the side of the winning good one day, not the lost, damn evil one. But in order to drive these devils away, you need a break in your duties as Marshal of the Sejm. Therefore, the Polish Coalition Club, whose Union of European Democrats alongside PSL and Conservatives is part, will vote in favour of your appeal in the belief that it will be good (The Bell) for Poland, for the Polish parliament and for you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u359	Thank you. Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u360	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal Terlecki! Hippies, oppositionist, historian, scientist, professor, envoy, marshal, punishing hand Jarosław Kaczyński directed to the seym section, master of non-emotional impertinence. We will vote in favour of your appeal. We will vote in favour of your appeal, but not only because of this unemotional impertinence, which unfortunately sometimes tends to transform also in this Chamber, also in the exercise of this function into bucomatism. [[Because you're working with the Platform, you're voting for the marshal's cancellation.]] But, Mr. Marshal, we will vote because your exercise of this function is the best measure of how facade has become this Parliament, how facade has become sitting in this parliament, where the most important topics of the state, the most important topics around which the debate should focus, or are not moved or pushed by the knee. This parliament, in which, of course, the standards, I apologize for the expression, the rudeness has long been very high and has established them... [[It's 2:2.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Bravo, Poland!]] [[Applause]] And he set them up... 2:1? [[Voice from the room: 2:2.]] 2:2... I'm sorry. [[Voice from the room: One more.]] They were established, I apologize to you, not anyone else, like Vice-Marshal of this Seym Stefan Niesiołowski from the Civic Platform. And this level of rudeness will be hard to beat, really, even Marshal Terleck. [[But you want a coalition with the Platform.]] So what's being said here today, so many words from the Civic Platform, is really pretty far-fetched hypocrisy. [[One more.]] But, but, ladies and gentlemen, this is a parliament which cannot take up a real debate, such a multifaceted debate, on the direction of the Polish energy transformation, a parliament which is treated by the rulers as a voting machine, also a parliament in which there is no meaningful reflection on Polish foreign policy. Because if there were such a reflection and if there was such a space for debate that the state did not create - like the predecessors, but it is no merit that you are not of better quality - this Parliament would also evaluate our policy towards Belarus for 30 years, towards the Belarusian State. This policy towards the Belarusian state from - let's give not 30, and 20 and 25 last years, the government of Lukashenka - this is all blood in the sand both in terms of supporting the opposition and in terms of those moments where, whether it is Sikorski or Karczewski flew, they wanted to get along with Lukashenka. The same was blood in the sand - both. Why? Because Poland has no conclusive arguments regarding the situation in Belarus: economic, political or military. The truth is, ladies and gentlemen, that excessive investment in one or another team in Belarus over the past 25 years has simply failed, it has simply failed. All the more so, if we hear - in August last year, in the apogee of protests - from reliable sources a very clear message coming from Berlin, Brussels, Washington, that the dependence that Lukashenka drove Belarus towards Russia makes the West expect Moscow to solve problems in Belarus, because today it is so great that this country is dependent on Moscow. And if we hear this and we know this, it is all about these factors, and we have 25 years of experience in relations with this country, we have to answer one thing: that the only possible priority that was at hand - provided that it is the most important priority in our relations with this country - is the fight for cultural and educational rights of our minority in Belarus. This is what is within reach and what under constant pressure of the entire political class, regardless of what the government will be, is possible to obtain, but it must be priority number one, because we are not able to achieve any other. That's just the grim truth. The truth is also, ladies and gentlemen, that some of you are saying that if we invest in very good relations with the Belarusian opposition today, then how they will once take over the power (the bell), they will be kind to Poland. I'm finishing up, Marshal, just a few moments of extension. The truth is, ladies and gentlemen, that the best friends who make the best commitments to us in another country will be aware of us and will only consider our interests on one condition: that we will be a force factor. Our best friends will ignore us if we're weak, and the greatest enemies will have to consider us if we're strong. And above all, this - not sentiments like that or any other - should decide on politics towards Belarus. National solidarity towards Poles in Belarus and building a strong, responsible policy of the Polish state and the internal strength of the Polish state, which will radiate to other countries. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u361	Thank you, sir. Here you go, Mrs Joanna Mucha, Poland 2050. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u362	Thank you very much, Marshal. Thank you, too, for this burst of joy. Mr. Marshal Terlecki! I'd like to start by asking you a question without aggression. I would like to ask you - as soon as I can - to ask you without aggression, how would you feel if someone here in this House... [[Voice from the Chamber: In the House?]] ...he said to you, "Sit down, you clown." [[A voice from the hall: Just a moment ago, this was what was said to the marshal.]] How would you feel if someone in this House said to you: tap your forehead? How would you feel if somebody said something about your kid, he's a freak? How would you feel if somebody said, "You can't do anything stupid" after you said it? These are quotes from your speech. [[And as a member of the Platform...]] I want to tell you that you won 10,000 in the last election. Votes, exactly 10 327, while the person to whom you said sit down, clown, or Sławek Nitras, won 78,500 votes. Claudia Jachira must have won 6.5,000. Votes, starting from 14th, if I remember correctly. [[But what does that have to do with anything?]] Barbara Nowack, whom you didn't defend, won almost 89,000. Voices. [[What does that have to do with anything?]] Magda Beyat, whom you didn't defend, won 19,5,000. Voices. You are not insulting these Members, you are insulting a total of about 200,000. the people who voted for them. [[Applause]] [[And you're insulting millions.]] [[You're insulting 8 million law and justice voters.]] In 1989 a process of change began in Poland, which can be summarised in four words: democratisation, marketisation, self-government, Europe. It was the first word: democratisation meant sometimes creating from scratch or transforming the institutions of the state on which democratic political systems are based - the rule of law, the threefold division of power, political pluralism. Among the tasks that were before us, before Poles in 1989, there was also the restoration of the Sejm after years of communism, when this Sejm played a facade role. In 2015, all these processes were reversed. Dismantling of democracy, market dismantling, dismantle of self-government and dismantle of Polish position in Europe and the world began. [[Voice from the room: Disassembly of reason.]] We could cancel you, Marshal Terlecki, for the wrong Twitter entries, for the vulgar, arrogant, primitive sometimes, rude treatment of Members and Messengers, but you deserve an appeal, because you are one of the most responsible for dismantleing institutions of Polish parliamentarianism, [[Applause]] and thus the three divisions of power. You'll be remembered by history anyway. The Seym ceased to be a place of debate and search for the best legal solutions for Poles, became a fake... [[That's weak, my fellow Member.]] ...one of many fakes of Polish institutions, a proud country such as the Constitutional Tribunal - is also a fake - the National Court and various others. [[A voice from the hall: Have you forgotten how you sang on that platform?]] [[Why don't you sing? It'll be more interesting.]] I remind you that democracy is the rule of the majority, but with respect for the rights of minorities. You keep forgetting that democracy is the rule of the majority, but with respect for the rights of minorities. [[Applause]] If there is no respect for minority rights (Motion in the Chamber), then such a system is called the tyranny of the majority. It has a political name, it's the tyranny of the majority. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[It's Madonna.]] Multiple violations of the Constitution by this Sejm, voting on laws with clear constitutional flaws... [[By the current total opposition.]] Marshal, may I ask you to calm the Members of your political formation? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I'd really appreciate it. [[A glass of water.]] Member, please speak. You're welcome. [[Voice from the hall: Sing.]] [[Voice from the room: Go ahead.]] [[Voice from the room: Get to the point.]] Multiple violations of the Constitution, voting on laws with clear constitutional flaws... [[Madonna, sing.]] ...breaking laws, breaking the rules of the Sejm, procedures, traditions, good customs developed over the years, shortening the speaking time to absurd, calculated in seconds of speeches, rejecting even the most rational remarks, night sittings that I will not mention the vote on the budget in the column room, the use of the parliamentary procedure, so as not to carry out public consultations, the lack of answers to questions, the lack of answers to interpellations or the treatment of these interpellations (the bell) in a manner of disregarding - these are all your merits. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[And what are you, Minister?]] Let me put it this way: Mr. Terlecki, you seem to be Richard today, I can do everything I can for Terlecki. [[Voice from the room: Aaaa...]] [[But I prefer the way you sing.]] But you will be remembered, and in time you will say, "Never again, Marshal Terlecki." Thank you. [[Touchdown, applause]] Thank you, Member. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u363	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of Marshal Richard Terletki. You're welcome. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u364	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I won't answer what we've heard here, because not all of those who performed should say what they said. I want to clarify two points: one is one that can be discussed, the other is a disgusting insinuation. As for the first one, it concerns Mrs. Cichanouska. Ms Cichanouska met with various opposition environments, both with the Platform and with the Left. I, as I was in Belarus, always met with opposition leaders. I thought it was something obvious and normal. On the other hand, it was another thing when a person who entered politics openly stands out for political dispute in Poland and declares his participation in an anti-government undertaking organized by the vice-president of the opposition party. [[Mr. Marshal, you didn't understand.]] [[Voice from the room: For German money.]] And that was the reason, I admit, for a sharp speech. When I met Mrs. Cichanouska in Vilnius, I explained it again. [[She apologized to you.]] This is not the right role for a person who is gaining support for his people, his movement in the fight against dictatorship. The fact that she was in favour of this has declared her participation in an anti-government enterprise in a country where the government supports the opposition in a way, I would say, worthy of recognition... [[Voice from the room: This is a democratic opposition.]] ...because it was the Prime Minister of our government who was asking in the European Union for support for the Belarusian opposition, this is wrong. If she let herself go and... [[...to say I'm sorry?]] I'm not going to or I wasn't going to withdraw those words. I just wanted to explain it to Mrs. Cichanouska. [[You wanted to apologize?]] I think that's an explanation she understood. But there was something else here, too. Mr. Budka... [[Mr. Member.]] ... He's allowed himself to be extremely insolent... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Look who's talking.]] ...an extremely insolent statement in which he referred to an incident yesterday or the day before yesterday. [[Voice from the courtroom, Marshal...]] [[No, Marshal, pay attention.]] For what? For what? Namely, at the meeting of the Sejm Bureau, there was a problem, the idea of naming one of the halls in our parliament by the name of a prominent politician, who was already dead, dead. Olga Kościanowska, the daughter of the great hero of Poland, Wolf. Firstly, at this Bureau meeting, we all supported the fact that this room should actually be called that. Secondly, we took part in the opening, you can say, the official name of this hall named after Mrs. Olga Krósanowski. During this opening, two speeches took place: your Marshal of the Sejm, as well as a very commendable speech by the Marshal of Kidawa-Błońska. These speeches emphasized the importance of the character to whom the hall was dedicated and explained why this room should be called. They were followed by a third person who thought it was a good opportunity to insult us, insult me... [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[Voice from the room: The truth.]] [[You didn't really listen.]] ...to offend the people who were in this room because I wasn't the only representative of our camp... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Listen up.]] ...injure in an insolent way, using lies, rude lies to our party. [[Who's talking? Who's talking?]] [[She told the truth where her mother was.]] [[She's the one with the gym, not you.]] I decided that this speech qualified to keep this performance from listening, and that's why I left... [[When she talked about it, when the Stalin State's Attorney murdered her father...]] Mr. Budka here tells us that it meant ignoring both your marshal and her father. This is, Mr. Budka, a rude untruth. [[Applause]] Actually, I could end with that, but I would like to say something else that I should say, express my surprise, my positive surprise. I very much congratulate you on the speech I heard here from the Left, because it referred to very important issues. And the fact that you agree to my appeal is a political issue, of course. You have every right to do that. But there was no rudeness here... [[Voice from the room: Lies.]] [[Picking up a microphone. Shutting the microphone off.]] ...or the lies I've heard from the representatives of the Civic Platform. [[Applause, some Members get up]] [[An insult.]] [[In corrigendum mode, Your Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u365	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the proposals in the voting block. [[But there's a correction, Marshal.]] I'm declaring a time-out. 20.15... [[Tell me why you're breaking the rules again. There's a correction, Marshal. He accused me of lying, he accused me of manipulating me, Mrs...]] Please, in the mode of correcting Mr Boris Budka. [[Voice from the room: Break is.]] You have a minute to correct it. Please. [[Voice from the hall: Come on, we're going out, we're not going to listen...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u366	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is these words by Mr Terletki that show that he did not understand anything from this debate. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] He came out of a unique event after words in which the daughter of Marshal Olga Krósanowska described what happens in a country where the prosecution and courts are used against political opponents. [[Voice from the court: Courts do.]] She was talking about how her father was murdered. [[Courts, that's right.]] She warned and warned against using the D.A.'s office and political courts. Today, Mr Terlecki talks about the fact that the political initiative is aimed at the government, aimed at overthrowing the government. It shows that you really didn't understand anything. You don't understand what a political discourse is, what a political dispute is, what something normal is in parliament. If today you can accuse the leader of the Belarusian opposition that he is meeting with other politicians who are organizing an anti-government event... Mr President, finish up. Your Marshal, it's this quote. This is exactly Putin and Lukashenka rhetoric. [[Voice from the room: It's over.]] Thank you, sir. Today, Marshal Terlecki becomes a spokesman for Putin and Lukashenka. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u367	Mr President, I would like to say... I've announced a time-out. 8:15 p.m., but as of this break, unofficially... Mr President, I was at this ceremony. [[Voice from the room: Of course.]] [[The voice from the hall: The buddy wasn't there and wasn't crazy.]] [[I was, too.]] I'll tell you what, there was a consensus on this proposal, that's the truth. Someone here said he wasn't offended by the guy. Ladies and gentlemen, the guest should not insult the host who invites him. [[Voice from the room: Of course I do.]] I was insulted, not Marshal Terlecki. [[It's a sign of your culture.]] I didn't turn my back on my heel, and I didn't leave, but this performance was really embarrassing. [[It was very good.]] Because you were referring directly to... You know that very well. [[Voice from the room: Shame.]] It happened. I'm closing the door, and I'm not going back to that. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, it was offensive, it insulted me directly. I didn't deserve to have the daughter of Mrs. Olga Krosanowska like this... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: You are using this.]] One more thing, there's a break. The country is constantly... [[Game in the O.R.]] That's an example. The Member gives an example. You're still referring to the regulations, so let me remind you that the Marshal of the Sejm, no matter which marshal is sitting here... Madame, you are breaking the rules on a regular basis. See, that's your behavior. Do you like this kind of behavior? Do you like it? Because I'm not, ladies and gentlemen. [[I don't like Terletsky's behavior.]] If you are demanding compliance with the rules of procedure, first of all, please comply with these rules. I understand the temperature of the speech. This is where we can discuss. [[When?]] We should all know the boundaries, first of all. And secondly, the Marshal of the Sejm, whether it is your Marshal of Kidawa-Błońska or Mr. Marshal of Czarzasty, have a button, watch the time, and are obliged to follow the rules. [[So what? They don't act like Terleckis.]] You are obliged to comply with this regulation and obey the Marshal's instructions. You're notoriously ignoring them. You approach them in a nonchalant manner, just as you like it. [[What are you talking about?]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the way to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Time-out time-out time-out time-out time-out time-out time-out [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 min. 05 hrs. 20 min 22]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Internal Affairs and Administration - Mariusz Kaminski (prints no. 1261 and 1279). I would like to ask Mr Marcin Kierwiński to state his reasons for the proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u368	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a strange practice, indeed, that the minister should not stand up when the vote on the vote of distrust against him is to be held. [[Applause]] Minister Wąsik in the committee, where this proposal was voted, where it was presented, promised that the Minister would be there. That's the way it is with the promises of the PiS. But indeed, your marshal, it's a strange practice. [[Where's the Prime Minister anyway?]] Apparently, the Prime Minister is not going to defend his minister. Ladies and gentlemen! The basis for this request was the report on the envelope elections prepared by the Supreme Audit Chamber. That's what I'm going to talk about in a minute, but what's written in this report is actually another installment, these are the other symptoms of the disease that we know from the past. Complete violation of law, shoe and arrogance towards elementary justice and finally treating the state as a private farm. This was to be expected, after all, the same behaviour of Minister Mariusz Kaminski in previous years led to the fact that he was sentenced to 3 years in prison and 10 years of prohibition of public office. [[Applause]] If it hadn't been for the interference of the head of state, a former party colleague, Mr. Kaminski would never have been a minister. What was done was a display of shoes, but above all a manifestation of disregard for the laws and principles of a normal democratic state. Did Minister Kaminski ever apologize for what he did the first time he was Minister? No. Did he repent? No, he's always been just as self-righteous. He's always been the same arrogant. And this pardon only resulted in an even greater sense of impunity, an even greater sense of pride and the effects we see. There are very, very many reasons to dismiss Minister Kaminski. Each of them could in itself, in a normal democratic state of law, be the reason for the resignation of Mr.Kamiński, but in any normal democratic state Mr.Kamiński would never be a minister, and that is a fundamental problem. [[Applause]] Because Minister Kaminski has no moral mandate, and according to the court, he cannot serve in the central administration for 10 years. Ladies and gentlemen! The envelope election, as I said, is the basis of our proposal. The Supreme Chamber of Control report leaves no delusions. Mr Mariusz Kaminski together with Mr Jack Sasin, Minister Dworczyk and finally Mr Morawiecki violated the legal and constitutional order of the Republic of Poland. The conclusions of this report can be summarised in four very simple words: repeated violations of law and constitution. In this way, Minister Kaminski joined the infamous pantheon of PiS officials who have broken the law and the constitution many times. Minister Kaminski took part in a great waste of public money. The Minister, whose role is to take care of the economic interests of the country, has been involved in the robbery of the state budget. [[Applause]] And these are the facts, this is what Minister Kaminski did, what the PiS government ministers did in the envelope elections. The minister who's supposed to oversee the capture of criminals was involved in illegal activities himself. It's a show of the fall of the state under the PiS. A man like that in a normal democratic state should sit on a jury of defendants, it's natural, and sit down. The rest is nothing new to Minister Kaminski. [[Applause]] The actions taken by the PiS government ministers in connection with the envelope elections, including Mr Mariusz Kaminski, have led to enormous losses in the state budget. But even if this loss was only one symbolic gold, then such a minister should be immediately cancelled, and you should demand it, you as the ruling majority. Finally, it is very characteristic of what is written in the NIK report: there is no document in the ministry - an email or a note - which would involve issuing instructions on envelope choices, nothing. All orders were issued orally, as if Minister Kaminski knew that he would be responsible for this as if he didn't want to leave a trace. This is the operation of the Constitutional Minister of the Polish State? No, this is an act that is more like the actions of ordinary rude criminals. [[Applause]] Minister Kaminski knew perfectly well that everything he did in connection with the envelope elections was illegal. He did not sign a contract with the Polish Securities Printing Works because he was afraid. He was afraid that this signature, the signature on this contract, would be a formal reason to charge him. But these charges are gonna be filed sooner or later. Today there will be political responsibility, and sooner or later there will be criminal responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister Kaminski also became famous for the fact that under his rule the police behave in an extremely brutal manner. I don't think anyone in this room has any doubts that all this is done by order, or at least with the approval of Minister Kaminski. We all remember these scenes when officers, so-called. Undercover officers, officers without uniforms, using telescopic sticks, beat Polish women. We all remember how the same officers sprayed tear gas towards the messengers: Mrs Beyat, my club friend Barbara Nowacka, my colleague Monica Wielichowska. For all this... [[Bożen Borys-Raccoon: When they fired, we also remember. In the Hawk, it was Donald Tusk.]] Mr Kaminski is responsible for all this because he inspired these actions. Each Minister of the Interior has a duty to observe, strive for the police to behave adequately. [[Tell Sienkiewicz that.]] Let us consider whether it is appropriate to spray gas in the direction of the messenger, which shows the parliamentary card. Is it appropriate to beat with a telescopic baton a woman who is calmly standing on a peaceful demonstration? You have to answer these questions today. [[And shooting the workers is?]] With great respect for the hard work of daily police officers, one must say very strongly: this telescopic baton was symbolically held by Minister Kaminski. [[Applause]] Mr. Kaminski has made the police political. A police force that cares more about one citizen than the safety of all Poles. After all, we all remember these pictures of hundreds of police officers defending his political boss, Jarosław Kaczyński. They didn't defend the security of Poles, they defended his political boss. All these cordons around a bunker in Nowogrodzka - it all leads to the fact that the ethos of police work are falling. [[Your powerlessness is driving you crazy.]] Minister Kaminski is responsible for the fact that pictures from martial law have appeared on Polish streets. It's his responsibility. [[Applause]] Mr Kaminski for three years of his office decided to remind Poles what it looked like and how the Civic Militia ruled by the totalitarian regime worked. That's the credit. Minister Kaminski. And finally, I think it's the worst thing because it's hitting the ethos of police work. This pressure, this pathological pressure on cops and a simple determination, who can get promoted and who can't get promoted. Those who serve power well and those who serve power badly. This famous hanger thing... It's about the cops who were asked to punish them because they didn't take off the hangers suspended on Mr. Kaczyński's bunker fence. These are the symbols of what Minister Kaminski is doing now. You have to call it very, very clear: this is a crime committed on the police. This is a crime on police honor and police image. The police rebuilt their image for 30 years, enjoyed great social trust. Until when? Until Mr. Mariusz Kaminski became Minister. He is personally responsible for the destroyed image of the Polish Police. Minister Kaminski likes to brag, he likes to emphasize his opposition past. And praise him for that, those were difficult times. But I am so purely humanly wondering whether Mr Kaminski is not simply ashamed of what he saw on the Polish streets and for what he is responsible for, this new way of acting of the Polish police. You really brought the Polish Police into these pictures. Continuing to maintain the position of Minister Mariusz Kaminski will further degrade the image of the Polish Police. We didn't write it in the proposal, but it's hard not to mention it. The latest mailing scandal, which affected the most important PiS politicians: Prime Minister Morawiecki, Minister Dworczyk. And there's something very distinctive about this affair. Once again, the special forces managed by Minister Kaminski learn about the incident either from the media or from a Russian communicator or from television. They are never able to act in the interests of state security. They'll always sleep something out. They'll never notice anything. And this is the whole truth about how the special forces manage Mariusz Kaminski. Poles pay Mr. Kaminski to keep the Secret Service in the interest of their safety. Meanwhile, these services act like three anecdotal monkeys: they can't see anything, they can't hear anything, and in the end they don't say anything, because they've never really said anything after any special ops incident run by the PiS. Inability to manage special services. Destroying Polish special services, destroying Polish counterintelligence, destroying the Internal Security Agency - these are facts. That's where Minister Kaminski started his office. Today, you're saying that ABW is investigating an e-mail issue. You guys were shutting down the Homeland Security delegation. You were doing everything you could to make the Homeland Security defense defenseless to be a defenseless tool in the fight against alien intelligence. All the activities of Minister Kaminski This is one great process of destroying Polish special services. But there is one thing that Minister Kaminski did for the special forces, but I don't know if citizens can enjoy it. Besides, Minister Kaminski doesn't have the guts to admit it. We've asked many times about Pegasus system, mass surveillance system. A system that is a kind of dual purpose weapon, because it's a system whose servers are in another country. Never Minister Kaminski, never Minister Wąsik could stand before Parliament and say: yes, we bought this system. Always keyed, always lied, always cheated. [[Applause]] So maybe now you ministers can say, "You've bought this system." Minister Mustache, I know this is funny. Just don't laugh at those who are being eavesdropped. It is not funny to those who are under surveillance, and I will remind you that Mr. and Mr. Kaminski have been convicted once before. [[Applause]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen: there are some very characteristic indications of the success of Minister Kaminski, not really by opposition politicians, not by the media, but by the colleagues of Minister Kaminski in this government. The first issue is the protection of the Deputy Prime Minister for security matters of Mr Jarosław Kaczyński. It turns out that the Deputy Prime Minister does not want to use the SOP, so heroically built and reformed by Mariusz Kaminski. He prefers to pay for private protection, he prefers to use the police because he is afraid of the effects of his own reforms, he is afraid of the effects of Mariusz Kaminski's work. [[Applause]] It is Jarosław Kaczyński who says that everything Mariusz Kaminski does is really useless. And that's a fact. [[Applause]] Listen to your president. Look how he's acting. Finally, there is a second, also very measurable determinant: issues of surveillance, issues of the fact that the ordinary Polish citizen has great suspicions that he is not being illegally eavesdropped. It's this e-mail thing. Also Prime Minister Morawiecki and Minister Dworczyk prefer to send e-mails from a private mailbox, so that they do not archive themselves, so that only those archived data are not available to you by Minister Kaminski (Dzwonek), because they will still be under surveillance. He's gonna be checking his e-mails. This is the level, actually, of distrust, of you, of your ministers to your... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Weak. Weak.]] Thank you very much, sir. You had 15 minutes, 15 minutes, and only recently... [[And Mr Gosievska? How long did she have?]] One more sentence. One sentence. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, and I am addressing the right-wing Members, I know that party loyalty, that you are often forced to vote like this, but consider whether defending a man who brings danger to Poles every day is a good formula. Think for once about the Polish state, which is ruined by this man. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u369	Thank you. The Sejm has determined that in the discussion on this point... Excuse me, wrong card. [[Voice from the room: Not yet.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Rapporteur of the committee.]] I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to present the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u370	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I present the opinion of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the parliamentary request for a vote of distrust towards the Minister for Home Affairs and the Administration of Mariusz Kaminski. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 2 of the Rules of Following the examination of this proposal, the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs decided at its meeting on 21 June this year to take a negative opinion on the proposal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u371	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1a The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm can only be heard by Questions are not acceptable as separate elements of the debate. Mrs Barbara Nowacka, Civic Coalition, has the floor. [[Wasn't he brave?]] [[There were no braves in the PiS.]] [[Voice from the room: There were no arguments.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u372	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, you really shouldn't be here. I appreciated the fact that you are aware that you should be formally deprived of public rights for another five years. It's a pity you've run out of reflection that this really is no place for you. [[Applause]] But while you're here, allow me to address your colleagues as well, but also you. There are five reasons why you shouldn't still be here, and you shouldn't be in the High House. This is an envelope election when you broke the article. 7 constitutions, not for the first time, saying that public authority operates on the basis and within the limits of the law. This is not the first time you've broken this article. Art. 44 Public Finance and Art. 231 Penal Code, which means overruled. You're familiar with the breaking story again. Serious issues, because they concern the foundations of a democratic rule of law, that is, how elections are organised. You knew. You chose not to ask questions, and you chose not to sign anything. Did you run out of legendary courage? Where's the opposition force? I remember you talking so much about honor and dignity, but those were times when you weren't the minister of eavesdropping and surveillance. [[Applause]] However, the real blame you bear for the Polish society is what the police did with the protesters. With protesting entrepreneurs and protesting women. Minister, you were an activist once. You said you had to act and that everyone had the right to express their views as they wanted - when you were accused of acting against Alexander Kwasniewski or Minister of Wind. That's when you understood civil rights. What happened now? And now you've been sending violent, ill-trained police to protest women. You agreed that the telescopic batons would be beaten by kids. [[Disgraceful!]] Have you heard of Mr. Maciek, 14-year-old Krapkowice? The police came to him and threatened him because he posted a protest post. Or have you ever heard of a 19-year-old girl from Warsaw whose police broke her arm during a protest? [[Voice from the room: False.]] Or have you heard of a 14-year-old girl from Olsztyn, who was chased by the police during the protest, pulled out, bullied and brought to justice by a supposed organization of protests? [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] Let me remind you, we have the right to protest, we have the right to defend our rights and dignity... [[But don't throw rocks.]] ...and you have the right as a minister to uphold civil rights as well. [[Applause]] And what you did then, during the protests with the Polish society, the Polish youth will not forget you. A few days ago, I heard a young boy come out for a demonstration under the Ministry of Education against another of your unworthy colleagues, Mr. Czarnek. He said his first collision with the state was that he was arrested and questioned by the police, insulted and insulted. Is this the Republic you want to build? [[Applause]] Is this the Republic for the Young? They won't forget it. You've lost a young generation because of this. Another thing you shouldn't be a minister for is what you did with the services and the police. Cops started to be ashamed of uniforms, didn't want to fuck women, didn't want to participate in the demonstration, often against their wives, mothers and daughters. This is what the minister should never do: disgrace the uniform and compel others to disgrace it. Another thing is ventilators. The NIK report clearly states that you knew perfectly well, Minister, that the arms dealer company has ties to the U.N. blacklist, and you gave a recommendation. [[Thin is all. It's so thin.]] The recommendation was made that the dealers' companies were positively assessed by the CBA and the bidder was on the list recommended by the Interview Agency of suppliers of State Treasury companies. Minister, how do you oversee these services if the arms dealer had the opportunity? Why is it that you turned a blind eye to scams at a time when Poles and Poles were dying and needed ventilators? And one last thing. Minister Dworczyk. You know why they use private boxes, Minister. Because they don't want you eavesdropping on business. [[Applause]] And that is another thing that you destroy the Polish state. Members and Members of the Right! You know he's eavesdropping on you, you know he's looking for hooks on you. [[Applause]] You go out with tears in your eyes to remind you of that. Today you will probably break, but remember that we are also on the side of your rights and this (The Bell) so that you are safe in Poland, just like each of us. And you shouldn't be here. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u373	Thank you, Member. I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u374	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The proposal signed by almost 70 Members of the Civic Coalition is a proposal based on two assumptions: in the first they draw up the information that NIK has prepared and in the second they grill Minister Kaminski because he acts as Minister and supervises the police. On 11 pages 3 the parties only deal with the conclusions of the NIK audit, which was probably the basis of this signed proposal. The rest is barbecuing for the police. There are charges or charges against Minister Kaminski, which are completely not reflected in the facts. [[Applause]] Anyway, ladies and gentlemen, if someone's read the papers, there's no charge in the information of anybody. This is just general information, which draws attention, suggests. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a fantastic conclusion. She suggests that the law be observed in the Polish state. Excellent information, which NIK presented in this report. [[You haven't read it.]] These are all socio-technical elements that you have been applying for a long time in a thoughtful manner. Let me put it this way: elections, ladies and gentlemen, are a celebration of democracy. The accusations against the Prime Minister and ministers, including Minister Mariusz Kaminski, that they have taken mandatory action in connection with the election, are ridiculous and devoid of logic. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] The information of the NIK, on which Members based their allegations, is shocking to their bias, because it does not take into account the underlying pandemic at that time. [[You shouldn't have chosen the side boss of NIK.]] [[Voice from the room: Don't lie!]] The motion of some members of the Civic Coalition Club is pure sociotechnic based on insinuations, suggestions or misrepresentations. You put a very important issue of the continuity of the Polish state on one scale, because the need to elect a President of the Polish Republic concerns the continuity of the Polish state, and on the other you raise doubts from this report whether he signed this information, did not sign it, when and in what form. Ladies and gentlemen, this is ridiculous. How can you do such a thing? This is ridiculous. According to the applicants, an official cannot make his own decisions because others are to make his own decisions. Fortunately, ladies and gentlemen, we have a prime minister and ministers like Mariusz Kaminski who can make such decisions because these decisions are good and lasting for our country. [[Voice from the room: Do you believe that?]] The conclusions of the NIK information referred to by the Members of the applicant are completely small and toothless. There are no charges against them, but it suggests, as I said, to observe the law in Poland. There's no information, no information, literally. Please indicate in your conclusion that this report is referring to a violation of the law and to a charge against someone. There's no such thing. It can therefore be argued that information about the results of the control of NIK is cannon meat, which was given opposition to barbecuing the rulers, from which applicants from the Civic Coalition are eagerly benefiting. And here the question arises: How much can our Polish boat be demolished to achieve the goal of taking over power in Poland without elections? It was the opposition that encouraged us to go out on the street during the pandemic. This subtle woman on the barricades during the protests in a vulgar manner cried out: This is war. The street will overthrow this government. [[What about Przylebska?]] Just to remind you, 800 people pacified in action fork [[♪ The bell ♪]] is your participation, which in history has been terrible. Stimulating provocation actions against the police, wanting to intimidate police officers, suggesting that the police do not intervene and take appropriate legal action. Today, Mr Kierwiński made such suggestions. Calling for the police not to be used for political purposes and for police officers to refuse to carry out their duties and act in accordance with the law, to ensure security, order and public order for Poles. Minister Mariusz Kaminski is at the head of the Ministry, which provides Poles and Poles with the opportunity to peacefully manifest and express their opinions and beliefs, but within the framework of existing law. I am convinced that he will not allow this order to be changed, although there is a great expectation that this will happen and that this lack of security in the Polish country will function. Searching for so-called. Guilty as charged. The power is to be grilled, to be afraid. Flashing the message: you'll be sitting down. That's what happened: you're gonna sit down. This is the mantra you've been saying all along. [[Kaminski's gonna sit down.]] [[Voice from the room: You may not.]] Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice takes the view that the motion for a vote of distrust against the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration of Mr Mariusz Kaminski is completely unfounded and will vote against it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u375	Thank you, sir. Here you go, Mr Maciej Gdula, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u376	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister! They say you're feared by the government because of the power and knowledge you possess. I don't think that's the biggest problem. I believe that the biggest problem is your feeling that you are defending the security of Poland, and in fact you have identified state security with the interests and security of your party, Law and Justice. I think that's the biggest problem. This shows that security crises are returning every few months. We're talking about security violations, security threats again. This isn't happening by accident. When the PiS decided that it wanted to organise an envelope election to exploit the low level of infection, while fearing that its supporters would not go to traditional elections, there was a reprehensible thing: at the table it was agreed that the funds of public companies would be allocated to it. Permission's been exceeded. The Prime Minister entered the boots of the State Election Commission. There's been a violation of the rule of law. In such a situation, when colleagues at the table get along with such important things, can we assume that public money is safe when guarded by Mariusz Kaminski? I don't think we can. In autumn, a few months later, the Constitutional Tribunal took the freedom of Polish women with its sentence. Hundreds of thousands of people went out on the streets. Probably the biggest protests in Poland's history after World War II. [[You've got to be kidding me.]] For real. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Voice from the room: You have a habilitation, Doctor.]] That's the truth. There were police on the streets, too. [[Voice from the hall: Congratulations. Didn't your father tell you what martial law looked like?]] Most people thought the police would protect them. What happened? The police acted in the interests of the rulers, striking at the protesters. In Małopolska 900 people are harassed by applications for participation in protests. Can citizens who have been locked in boilers, citizens who have been broken hands, citizens who have been treated with gas feel safe when Minister Kaminski is watching them? I don't think they can. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the last case of a leak in information. After all, it has been known for several months that politicians' accounts are being attacked. There was an attack on Minister Maląg's account, there were attacks on Mr Suski's accounts. The atmosphere of seriousness around data protection has not been created, around the work of the government that takes place in the virtual world. It's been neglected. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] What happened after the next attack? The government says that Russia is responsible for the attack, and all those who point to mistakes, omissions, are shown as those who favor Russian interests. This cannot be considered to be a serious response to this crisis. On the other hand, one might ask whether the ministers guarded by Mariusz Kaminski may feel unpunished. I think they might feel safe. And this is our biggest problem with Minister Kaminski: he is convinced that he is making safe choices, that he defends security on the streets, that he defends Poland from external attacks. And what are the effects? Crisises returning every few months. Citizens who feel less and less secure. Citizens who don't trust the police. Trust in the police has fallen dramatically, as never before in history. In this situation, when we are very afraid of the abuses that occur in the sense of innocence, and who knows, perhaps even more, of sacrifice, we cannot not support the motion to dismiss Minister Kaminski from his duties. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u377	Thank you, sir. Mr Marek Biernacki, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u378	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! Today we have a series of debates on the vote of distrust towards the marshal and ministers. Here we focus on the vote of distrust towards ministers in connection with the results of the audit carried out by the Supreme Audit Chamber concerning the famous so-called elections. the envelopes, the presidential elections, which were to take place on 10 May. And this is an element that is very important, because the High House should take care of that period. The High House should take care of the idea and course of the envelope elections, as it looked like, [[Applause]] This is simply the highest necessity. And it is fortunate that this debate is continuing because, as I heard a representative of the Law and Justice, I suddenly came to the conclusion that maybe these elections took place on 10 May. I guess they didn't happen after all. Has anyone suffered the consequences of carrying out this whole procedure? No! And it's not just about the money. These elections could not be held for organisational reasons. Our Polish country is not prepared to conduct correspondence elections. I don't know who came up with that idea at all. 40 days, because 40 days were given to conduct correspondence elections on Polish infrastructure. The Swiss did it for 30 years, the Estonians with a small country prepared for some years, and they did it in electronic form. The Americans are still complaining about this whole system. How could such a decision have been made? In Poland, where the communication infrastructure functions as it functions, it was unrealistic to carry out. Do you have any idea what that means? Ignorance, and ignorance comes from arrogance. [[Applause]] You don't listen to anyone. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] This is a serious problem. We must also remember that the presidential elections are not converted into money. It's not just money. It is pride, it is the biggest event in Poland every few years. And the constitution was broken, the law was broken at that point just because it was decided somewhere, and it was probably your president first, then your prime minister. It was well known in the Ministry that this decision was broken because no one wanted to sign the internal procedure. There's no record of surveillance. Why? Because everyone, because, I'm sorry, people in the ministry have knowledge, they know it. The Minister also knew very well that it was all a bit on foot or more that it was a violation of the constitution, a violation of the law. And there were other means. Perhaps the idea was not to pay businesses compensation if a natural disaster was introduced. [[Applause]] And finally, ladies and gentlemen, one very important thing, here I must refer to this. I want to give you a piece of a story, I'm not doing it, but I think it's worth it. Someone's been hacking into social media accounts of ministers, MPs, journalists, soldiers for months. Half-naked prostitute ads, fake news about a reactive cloud over Lithuania are being sent to the network. What's the connection between these attacks? The trails, as reported by the reporters, analyzing the disinformation on the web, lead to the Ghostwriter hacker group, which pursues Russian goals. Thousands have already taken over accounts, it's a ticking bomb, they claim the sources of Polish special forces. Disinformation actions using hacked accounts have been repeated regularly every few weeks, but they only arouse temporary media interest, although unidentified hackers managed to take over the accounts of your Marshals of the Sejm, several members of the government, a group of Members, including a member of the Committee on Special Services, and local government officials. Politicians still don't take this threat seriously. It's an article by Anna Gielewska and Konrad Szczygła, which I have to give because they wrote it for this... investigation. Just, ladies and gentlemen, there is one small problem, a riddle: When was this article written? When was this article written? April 6th. [[In Tusk's day.]] April 6th. And you say that, are you an envoy? Are you that serious? What has your government done since these months for two months? [[Applause]] Have email correspondence been dropped? No. Private e-mail correspondence has not been abandoned. Have preventive measures been taken? No. Do you have any idea what kind of information is coming up now? What are they going to do? [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Useful.]] [[What's that? Do you know?]] Thank you, sir. I know, I know. Now, of course, you're... That's your M.O. Thank you, sir. You're trying to hide your incompetence and arrogance by using such a rude attack. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u379	Thank you, sir. Can you hear me? [[Mr President, I would expect more from you.]] There you go, Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u380	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The charge against the Home Minister is a serious matter and you have to have serious arguments. It's not a serious argument that someone broke into the Minister's private mailbox. You can have 40 cases that the Home Office doesn't know about, and how is Homeland Security supposed to protect it? [[Voice from the room: E there.]] I'm 15 and... [[It's worse when he's got government documents in there.]] ...I have in different countries, of course. I didn't get hacked, as far as I know. It's also a ridiculous accusation... If someone, this crowd of demonstrators, broke into Jarosław Kaczyński's villa and trashed it and destroyed it, then the minister would answer, not because he stopped these people. But the most important thing is different. You're just having fun, you don't want to charge him, you're pretending to be an opposition, you're going hand in hand with them. Of course I do. You know perfectly well that this conclusion will fall, you have reported it for people's applause, you only do it for that and only for that. If you really want to do this, file for the Court of State. 115... We'll back it up. But it's something concrete, and you're threatening that if you come to power, it's you guys out there. It's not like you guys are gonna do it, right, 'cause you're gonna wash your hands. So that you sign the motion for the Court of State and, please, we'll support that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u381	Thank you. You continue with Mr Dobromir Sosnierz on behalf of the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u382	Firstly, in July 2020 a text revealing the background of an intelligence attack on the Confederation from the services led by Minister Kaminski appeared in the It is about the action under the code name Sputnik, which was intended to support such a PiS narrative, PiS politicians often like to bring up such a theme that the Confederation supposedly has some connection with Russia. [[Voice from the room: Ma.]] In January 2020, Prime Minister Morawiecki said, for example: Notice how they have been silent in recent weeks and even very strangely commenting on what is happening, the Confederate politicians. This confirms their relationship with Russia to a large extent. That's what you said, Prime Minister. [[Applause]] It was after all the Confederate politicians criticized that statement - because it was about Putin's unfortunate, idiotic statement - everyone criticized it. The Lord then, brazenly lying, says that we were strangely silent. And what's the effect? Did the Prime Minister apologize? We have also shown our statements in the media. Did the Prime Minister apologize? No. The Prime Minister went to Mr Mariusz Kaminski and told him to look for something. And that's where he got my shares, Sputnik. I quote the weekly "Highest Time!": As part of the Sputnik case, Confederates, members of their families, assistants and related persons were under surveillance. It was recorded there, among others. Mr Braun's assistant. It was about finding anything that could be attributed to Russia. So it's up front for a political commission. And what did you find? I'm listening. Will you please confess? What did you find as a result of this action? [[Because there was no action.]] You never explained yourself to the minister what he was listening to, what he recorded there, and what right he was doing it. [[Russian trolls.]] Second, the envelope elections. Mafia management on the face, forcing more institutions to participate in this illegal hucpe. Mr Sipiera, if it was all so legal, why? Didn't they want to sign these orders? Why wouldn't they sign your name? The report by NIK is crushing, leaving no doubt that the government - including Minister Kaminski - acted with full awareness illegally. Third, two-speed police. Slow, passive, inept against left-wing riots throughout the country, and provocative, overzealous, aggressive towards demonstrations against sanitary terror, against marches of independence and such demonstrations. Because these are not messages from an alternative reality, as Mr Kierwiński says, that demonstrations were brutally pacified - it was exactly the opposite. Illegal demonstrations, which have just been adopted with the support of the Platform's Members, the Left's tightened sanitary rigors, were de facto protected by the police. The police have paved the way for them. A common citizen gets a ticket when he gets across the road in an unauthorized place, and these people are blocking the streets all over the country. Here in Warsaw, they were sitting Julki in the middle of asphalt and what? And the police made sure that sometimes the drivers wouldn't drive up there, legally entitled to use this road. Then whose side are you on? In Katowice, under the cathedral, there was a mob who hated the blood of the unborn, on the other hand, a handful of people who defended the cathedral. Who's being questioned today? Who's being called to the police? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Any of those protestors throwing rocks at us then? Are these demonstrators, who were several dozen or so, getting calls to the police and being accused of being involved in an illegal fugitive? This is a joke. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u383	Thank you, sir, thank you. Thank you very much, sir. Here you go, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u384	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The Minister responsible for internal security should be as clean as a tear, absolutely impeccable. I do not have the best news for the Minister - the burden of each of these allegations is so serious that each of them could be the basis for an appeal. Let's start with the envelope elections. It's a history of action outside the law. One of the heroes is Minister Kaminski, but we must look for roots many years back. In 2015, the Council Mariusz Kaminski was found guilty of exceeding his rights by the court. The verdict was not valid, but then President Andrzej Duda decided that rehabilitation was not necessary and Minister Kaminski pardoned you. Today we see how big a mistake it was. Because Minister Kaminski didn't draw any conclusions. According to the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber, the government, trying to circumvent the State Election Commission, acted outside the legal boundaries, breaking and trampling a constitution that clearly states that public authorities operate on the basis and within the legal limits. No provision entitles anyone to replace the State Election Commission. [[He didn't do any work on the election board.]] It's the essence of democracy and free elections, Minister. In Poland, elections are held by the State Election Commission, not by a self-proclaimed group of ministers. But that's not all about it. As this report indicates, all orders were issued orally. Today we ask which organizations do this, that everything is on their face, that without any evidence. [[Member Janusz Korwin-Mikke: KGB.]] Is this what the Constitutional Minister does, Minister Kaminski? The Supreme Audit Chamber report shows how powerful this case of Law and Justice - over 56 million PLN of damage is. A great financial damage caused by the Polish Post Office and the State Security Printing Works. 56 million PLN, Prime Minister, this is the scale of this affair. Minister Kaminski, you were a member of the group that led to this matter. It's enough to call you out of this position. But of course that's not all. Another thing is supervision of subordinate services. This is even a problem under the rule of law and justice, just remembering the tragic case of Igor Stachowiak, sweeping the case under the rug, but it was Minister Kaminski who taught nothing. The Minister did not consider it appropriate to react when there was inadequate behaviour of the services towards those who expressed their views, using the rights expressed even in Article. 54 constitutions. Everyone saw aggressive groups beating women, young people, entrepreneurs, and in time they turned out to be unmarked officers. We have seen scandalous aggression against Members. [[Something amazing.]] [[We saw spitting at cops and insulting them.]] We saw them surveilling teenagers and aggressively harassing them in their homes. You politicized, Minister of Police, and the officers today are ashamed of what you've done. Minister! The windows of your offices are too eastward, because these are the patterns. So that's enough to vote in favour of your appeal. [[Applause]] And one more thing. It's not less important because it's hitting the core of our identity. The resort you're running was trying to deprive the firefighters of the fireman's dignity. [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] [[Don't lie to me.]] [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] And there is no greater sin in the matter of CSR than to strike these traditions nurtured for decades. [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] Minister! This is a political mortal sin and this is an old policy. [[This is a political statement.]] Old politics, discredited politics. Minister, we don't want that policy. We want a fair policy. [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] [[And we don't want lies like that.]] We want a policy whose history is written with concern for the citizen, not the party arrangement. [[Guys' business.]] We want a policy in which the constitution is a document that sets the rules of conduct, not an empty law written so as not to comply with it. [[And million-dollar dropouts.]] Unfortunately, Minister, your colleagues will probably protect you today. They will, because you are a guarantee that this power will continue. Some are afraid of you, others are allowed to do what they think is appropriate thanks to you. You are a guarantee that the uncomfortable facts gathered by the subordinate services will not see the light of day. However, Poles deserve a minister for whom the best value is the good of the state and the good of citizens, not the good of the party. I've just shown, Minister, that you are grossly not fulfilling this condition. You are not fulfilling this condition, and you should not be Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. Therefore, the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050 will vote in favour of your (Ring) appeal. And so be it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u385	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration of Mr Mariusz Kaminski. You're welcome. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u386	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I will focus on matters directly related to the submission of a motion of mistrust. I'm not going to respond to any personal attacks against me. This is your right. This is a question of personal culture and political culture. I'll also point out that you're mixing up certain roles. [[It doesn't sound good.]] I am also the coordinator of special services, but today we are discussing the role of Home Affairs Minister in the context of the elections which you call envelope elections, and which were really trying to save Poland from the crisis that he threatened us with. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I want to explain certain myths connected with the activities of the Minister of the Interior, the activities of the Polish Security Printing Works and with the decision of the Prime Minister who entrusted certain tasks to the company under my command. On 16 April 2020, Prime Minister Morawiecki issued a decision recommending the Polish Securities Printing Works to undertake the task of preparing for correspondence elections in our country. You think it was an illegal decision. By this decision... [[Of course I do. The Supreme Board of Control...]] I'll get right to it. The Prime Minister obliged the Minister of the Interior to conclude an agreement with the Polish Securities Printing Works concerning the reimbursement of the costs to be incurred by the company in carrying out this order. The essence of the charge made to me in this context - I read the justification of this conclusion - is, I will quote a passage from your justification... [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Louder.]] ...that as Minister of Home Affairs, I did not fulfil the obligation of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration set out in the above mentioned above. the Prime Minister's decision to sign the agreement and to provide reimbursement of the costs incurred by the PWPW in preparing the presidential elections which did not take place. In other words, you're demanding my resignation because you don't think I made the Prime Minister's illegal decision. Admit it, it's completely absurd, it's nonsense. What if I had signed this agreement? Knowing your political sophistication, I am absolutely convinced that I would read in the explanatory statement the charge that I exceeded my authority by signing an agreement that was an illegal order from the Prime Minister. [[But you're harassing the Prime Minister.]] [[Voice from the room:...the money trays.]] So, regardless of whether I'd sign a contract, if I'd signed a contract, you'd have charged me with exceeding the cultivations. When I haven't signed this agreement, and I'm about to explain why, you're accusing me of not doing my job. This is complete nonsense. There is no value to this kind of argument on your part. But I want to tell you clearly, very clearly, that I am convinced, I believe and thought that the decision made by Prime Minister Morawiecki was a fully legal decision. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] ...and taken in a feeling of deep public interest. [[Applause]] [[How deep?]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the hall: Shame on you.]] Once again, I would like to stress that at that time we were threatened by a dramatic constitutional crisis linked to the inability to hold the presidential elections. [[Voice from the room: That's what you meant.]] The scale of the pandemic at that time in our country was large, and no one in the world was able to predict how the epidemic would develop. Poland and the world. Nobody. [[Voice from the room: No one believes it.]] In the black scenario, we were threatened by the situation that our country would remain without the president: the term of the functioning president will end, no elections can be held - there is no president in Poland. [[Constitution.]] It was a matter of responsibility. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] Responsibility to act in the name of democracy, in the name of citizens choosing the head of state. That was the prime minister's intention, that was the government's intention. We took the responsibility. [[Voice from the room: Jaruzelski too...]] I would like to tell you that, as Minister of the Interior, after receiving this decision by the Prime Minister, I asked the Management Board of the Polish Securities Printing Works how it intends to implement this decision. I have received a written plan from the Management Board, I have assessed it as serious and professional and I want to make it clear to you: Personally, as Minister of the Interior, I have signed the approval of the actions planned by PWPW. I gave PWPW the green light to take these actions. [[You didn't sign the contract.]] I was gonna sign a contract. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Voice from the room: When?]] But it is clear that in order to sign a contract that was supposed to pay the costs incurred by the company, I would have to know what the costs were. In order to know what the cost is, I would have to know if there would be a second round of elections, because such a possibility is always an option. [[Minister, let's not joke.]] I think it was rational. The Management Board of PWPW had a guarantee of this and had a prose in the form of approval by me of an action plan that such an agreement would be signed. There's nothing unusual about this situation. [[And then you signed that contract? Did you sign that contract later?]] There's nothing unusual about this situation. I could not sign this agreement because the elections did not take place, sir. It didn't happen. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] [[It's because of you that this election didn't take place, and you're responsible for this expense.]] And the Sejm, the High Chamber has decided, by law, that all costs incurred by the entities due to the need to prepare for the correspondence elections will be covered by the budget of the National Election Office, which also happened in December. I would like to assure the High House that the state-owned company of PWPW, under the Minister of Home Affairs, has suffered no losses in preparation for these elections. [[The state budget has suffered a loss, Minister.]] Those were the decisions of the Sejm. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Chairman, how did you...]] Now you have the floor of the Minister. Mr President, you now have the floor of the Minister. [[Voice from the room:...sitting.]] Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Kaminski: Ladies and gentlemen... [[Answer me.]] ...I would like to say this to you: I could, of course, refer to various more or less absurd charges, such as the accusation of Mr Soszerz, who has read something in his newspaper somewhere, in his newsletter, the Supreme Time... [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: I have seen it.]] ...and told us here from the tribune the truth revealed about Operation Sputnik. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Sputnik is, in fact, a Russian medium that wages a hybrid war with our country, and various kinds of strange characters speak there, presenting in a manner that is appropriate for the Russian side various types of political and historical narratives. Yes, such a Sputnik exists indeed. [[Have you sued the author of this text?]] I could refer to any of these allegations, although, as I say, in part they do not concern the Minister of the Interior. But let me tell you one thing: you are quoting here various types of media-political incidents actually from a year ago. You're referring to what happened a year ago. The anniversary of these events will be in a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, we talked about this in the Sejm, in the administration committee, you got detailed information and from the minister, and from the chief of police. You should be ashamed of yourselves. If you're quoting the same media-political incidents after a year... [[November, December, January.]] ...as a charge against the Minister or against the Polish Police, that means that you are helpless, that means that you have no arguments. [[These cases are ongoing, Minister.]] If you were so upset about it, why didn't you file a motion for a vote of distrust against the Minister of the Interior last year? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: We were...]] [[Voice from the room: You don't remember.]] [[For some reason, you don't remember once you've explained yourself.]] I want to tell you clearly: you should be ashamed of the attacks on the Polish police. This is the lack of elementary state loyalty on your part. [[Applause]] [[But we...]] [[Voice from the hall: Police should...]] The fact that the police are being attacked both from the left and from the law indicates its impartiality. The fact that sometimes there are situations like pandemic restrictions, that the police have to... [[Broken arm, telescopic batons?]] ...execute Some restrictions that are not socially popular... [[Voice from the room: Breaking hands is not socially popular, Minister.]] [[Voice from the room: Incidents.]] Please don't interrupt and don't interrupt. The fact that the police have to do this kind of thing... [[Voice from the room: Break hands?]] ...is a proof of its state action and its state character. [[Voice from the room: Break hands?]] And the attacks on the police are most regrettable on your part. Shame on you. [[Attacks... on citizens.]] I want to say from the Seym Court, in the context of all kinds of stupid, silly... [[Voice from the hall: You have no shame.]] ...and disloyal state attacks, to police officers. [[Citizen snooping.]] For the fact that you had to perform often duties that were not socially popular, but which were necessary for public health, public security - for this I thank you as the Minister of the Interior. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] That's all I have to say about it. And don't comment on my courage or my honor... [[Voice from the room: Please do not comment.]] ...because you're not the right person to do that. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u387	Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor of the President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki. You're welcome. [[I'm asking for a corrigendum. You called me.]] [[Sit down.]] No... [[Oh, no, I was called by name.]] [[Sputnik, sit down.]] Mr President, you also referred to... [[It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. I've been called by name, and I'm asking for a corrigendum.]] [[A voice from the room: They warned you about...]] No, sir. [[That's after the speech, isn't it?]] Have a seat. [[No, no, I'd like to correct it because I was called.]] [[Sputnik, sit down.]] You haven't been called. [[I was called, by name and by name I was called.]] Mr President, because the Minister responded to your speeches... [[Voice from the room: Get off the platform.]] ...so he appealed and talked about what you were talking about. [[Sit down.]] Mr, please sit down and don't discuss it. Prime Minister, please. [[You have to vote for the ombudsman, then it'll be easier.]] [[I mean, there's a right to be corrected.]] [[Sit down.]] [[What's all this... call the dog like that.]] Prime Minister, please take the floor. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u388	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the opposition, unless it's the Olympic year, decided to break the record of unjustified requests for a vote of distrust. [[Applause]] Three proposals, which could actually be quite quickly disposed of with one basic argument about the need to make those choices, and I will refer to that in a moment. [[Voice from the courtroom: You'll be in jail for this too.]] But since there have been a lot of calumnia here, accusations against Minister Kaminski, I would like to address a few fundamental points. First of all, the services subordinate to Mr Kaminski played a fundamental and very positive role in securing social life during the greatest tragedy of recent years, COVID-19. Police officers cared about maintaining public order at a time when illegal demonstrations, which were also fueled by the political scene on this side, led - because this must be stressed, ladies and gentlemen - to many deaths a few weeks later. [[That's bullshit.]] After all, it is obvious that then organized demonstrations, at the top of the second wave, led to mutual infections, and consequently, a few weeks later, to deaths. [[You're the one who said we won.]] [[Applause]] Don't clap now, because it's a very sad thing. [[The virus is gone, there's nothing to be afraid of.]] This is the truth that should prick you in your hearts. Minister Kaminski tried to prevent it. If I have any attention to this, I rather think today, on an ex post basis... [[You're the one who wanted the army out.]] ...that maybe we should intervene even more so that these demonstrations don't take place... [[And you wanted the army to move out, is that you?]] ...because they led to death. And that is a thing that should also sink deep into your hearts. [[The voice from the room: What nonsense.]] [[A voice from the hall: It's a disgrace!]] But the police and border services also worked very hard to maintain order in a few fundamental spheres. Firstly, the border services contributed greatly to the fact that numerous waves were stopped coming to us from abroad, starting with this March-April-May one from last year, through the second wave. It's the Border Guard. Later, the police, who, apart from maintaining public order, verified whether the persons who should be quarantined were actually in quarantine. It's hundreds of thousands of verifications, actions a day, sometimes hundreds of thousands, ladies and gentlemen. [[Voice from the room: 100,000.]] These are many cases, dear fellow countrymen, where policemen usually saved their lives by contacting older people, as in the case of an 80-year-old woman in Kłodzek or an 83-year-old man in Włocławek. The man collapsed, and if it wasn't for the police intervention, he'd have lost his life. There were more cases like this. [[The voice from the hall: Stachowiak, right?]] These services under Mr Kaminski's authority have been very helpful in controlling this terrible plague that has actually affected us. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] But, ladies and gentlemen, you said, here were these terms: telescopic baton, some kind of intervention. I think you're measuring your own measure because I'm going to remind you something today about how you've behaved against demonstrators. Well, do you remember the action of the Fork, which the Gazeta Wyborcza described as an effective pacification? My God, the paper that got fat has grown on the sign of solidarity... [[You've been fattened by Western capital.]] ...on the idea of solidarity, he has the audacity to write that it's a pacification. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] This is the word used: pacification of Legion's supporters Warsaw. Well, do you know what was done there during this action? Gas was used inside a closed car. [[Voice from the room: Barbaricity.]] People were told to sit naked. Read the testimony of those men who were then brutally beaten, brutally treated by, yes, the police and special forces in your time, the times of your politicians. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] [[Voice from the room: Unbelievable.]] And you're responsible for that. Now remember - I address this to the Members of the Confederation who accused our Minister of intervention - 2011 and then beating, kicking demonstrators, brutal interventions against Polish patriots who wanted to demonstrate their love for their homeland on the anniversary of regaining independence. [[Voice from the room: Yes, it was.]] [[Did you personally advise that?]] That's what happened. Remember, if you're talking about using equipment, demonstrations from January or February in Jastrzębie or Zabrze... [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] ...when you were using, the Civic Platform government was using smooth-bore weapons, water cannons against miners. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Voice from the hall: You shot people.]] These are your interventions. And, dear fellow countrymen, ladies and gentlemen, this difference, indeed, must be said, restraint in intervention... [[You weren't a government advisor?]] ...in comparison to what the Civic Platform government was doing, you have to mark it and you have to keep an eye on it. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Or do you want examples of how the police behave: German, French, Dutch, Belgian? During the protests of the yellow vests, several people were killed, 2,000. people were injured. [[About the rule of law.]] Water cannons used by the Germans. Cuffed, handcuffed, with his hands behind his back, lying face-to-face to the ground, men and women. German police. [[About Kaminski.]] A horse riding Dutch police. I think it's a far more violent intervention by the police there. How can you even make such an argument? In this difficult, dramatic situation Minister Kaminski tried to find a golden remedy to secure the health and life of Poles. [[Applause]] But I also want to thank Minister Kaminski from this place for something else. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely these days that we celebrated the 15th anniversary of the establishment of the Central Anti-corruption Office. This is a great credit to Minister Kaminski, [[Applause]] President Jarosław Kaczyński - at the time the service was called. At that time we really began to live in another country, because this bane of the Third Republic, which was corruption, at least to a very large extent was limited. [[Like Banana.]] This is a great credit to what Minister Kaminski has done all his life. Minister Kaminski is, today we would say, above all, a stateman. I know that word rarely falls out of your mouth, and you are not very able to understand it, but, ladies and gentlemen, Minister Kaminski cares about the quality of the institutions, so that public life is as honest as possible. You can be sure of that. Of course, you can be sure that our country should be even stronger. We should better protect ourselves against cyber attacks by Russia and Russian services. We should be better protected in the sense of prevention when it comes to various kinds of illegal demonstrations, we should be able to intervene, but the deficits that we need to make up for as a result of this great collapse, which was the treatment of the state as a fifth wheel at the cart, like the night watchman at most in times of liberal rule, the Neoliberals, are deficits that have to be made up for years. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] As for the elections, ladies and gentlemen, which I will refer to in a moment's time during the discussion on the other two proposals, I would like to say that Minister Kaminski also behaved as a stateman, because the elections and presidential elections are a constitutional obligation. And if someone didn't do some responsibilities at the time, first of all they didn't have the responsibilities of the local authorities who had very specific responsibilities. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Give me $70 million.]] The lack of complements threatened anarchy, chaos, non-constitutional failure. [[NIK doesn't think so.]] Read the constitution. You have to have the courage and determination to implement the constitution, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] Yeah, long live the Constitution. [[Applause]] [[Some Members chant: Constitution! Constitution! Constitution!]] [[A voice from the courtroom: You're gonna say it, too.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much to Minister Kaminski for doing what he had to do last year, what he had to do at the time so that these elections could take place, although they did not. [[And who's gonna pay for that?]] I will refer to this for other reasons during my next speech, but I would like to thank you from this point of view for the decisive, courageous, but prudent services under the authority of the Minister, and for his way of life mentioned here, which, yes, it is worth recalling here, because this is an important discussion on Mr Kaminski. That, too, should be in mind when you discuss his achievements, his determination, his actions. From this point on, I would like to thank and ask the High House for a vote according to your conscience in the last 40 years, in the years of martial law, the 1980s and later. You know perfectly well - also this side of the Parliament hall - that Minister Kaminski is doing his duties well. Minister Kaminski is trying to make up for, to reduce all the deficits that you have very often led to. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u389	Thank you, Prime Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of State Assets - Jack Sasina (prints 1262 and 1302). I would like to ask Mr Caesar Tomczyk to state his reasons for the proposal. [[Voice from the hall: Just don't sing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u390	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we present an indictment against the Minister of State Assets, Mr Jack Sasin, who sits here next to you. An indictment should be read before an independent court by an independent prosecutor, and that would be the case in any democratic state. This case in every democratic state after what happened in Poland, after the elections that did not take place, would be brought to justice. [[Applause]] We have a number of charges. Only one of them concerns the election. Jacek Sasin is the minister of this government, that's clear, but he's also his symbol. We know that whatever he says is backwards, just like the Moravian government. As you say, there will be a tax reduction, we know that taxes will be increased. When you said you were gonna do the Polish BBC with TVP, we know what happened to it. When you said you were gonna fix the Constitutional Court, we know what happened to the Constitutional Tribunal. It's not working. [[It's been fixed.]] This government is a symbol of waste, a symbol of foul play, but it is also a symbol of corruption. Why corruption? Because Mr Jacek Sasin, Minister of State Assets, is responsible for every party nominate that sits in the Treasury companies. And I have for you, ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, a request and a task. I ask that everyone whose family, loved ones, do not work in the Treasury company raise their hand. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[We will not act on your orders.]] [[Voice from the room: Oh ho.]] [[But your husband works at the foundation...]] One at a time. We've seen the statistics. Jadwiga Emilewicz's husband - Orlen. Are you Jadwiga Emilevich? The daughter of Mr Cymanski - there is Mr Cymanski - Energa. Son of Mr Smolinski - Energ. Mr Golińska's brother - Mrs Golińska - Energa. [[Chairman.]] Chairman. Minister Sasina's sister-in-law - you are Minister Sasin - airport Lublin. [[She doesn't know her sister-in-law.]] Nomination of high-flying flights, you might say. Daniel Obajtka's partner - here we go almost for a record - four supervisory boards. [[Voice from the room: No.]] Four supervisory boards. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] But watch out, wait a minute, they're better. They're better. Wife of Mr Sobolewski - five supervisory boards. [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] Five supervisory boards: Pekao, Anwil, Goleniów Airport, KGHM, Orlen Fuel. It's a record indeed. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Husband of the Member of Solidarna Polski Szczudło - Vice President of PGNiG Retail turnover. Wife of Zbigniew Ziobra - Director at Link4, PZU. [[Voice from the room: Shame.]] [[Brother.]] Finally, a partner of the Euro MP Tarczyński - the supervisory board of the company responsible for the production of pneumatic machinery. [[Because he's a jackhammer.]] All of this from your nomination is due to Minister Jack Sasin. Ladies and gentlemen, as in the lens, we see that we do not live in a normal country. PiS politicians simply feel unpunished, Poland is drowning in corruption. You proposed New Deal, but this is definitely not a Polish order. This is the new order. What you are proposing, all these nominations, Minister Czarnek, Minister Sasin - this is your new order. In every normal country - in every country - Jacek Sasin and the ministers would sit on the bench of the accused because he spent 70 million on elections that did not take place. [[Applause]] [[Illegal.]] [[And what kind of a normal country is that?]] Minister Sasin! Do you know what they say about you? They're talking about you being reversed Midas. Everything you touch turns... It certainly doesn't turn into gold. [[In Turów.]] The biggest charge against this government is a lie. Once Jacek Kurski, also your nominate, said that the dark people would buy anything. That's your motto. This has become your motto and your motto, your actions every day. Let's look at Jack Sasin's example of what it looks like. Well, let's see. What did Mr Jacek Sasin say about the NIK check on the envelope elections? Do you know what Jacek Sasin said? 13 May 2021: I am calm about the outcome of the audit. Ladies and gentlemen, here is the outcome of the audit and it says this: Minister Sasina's actions were deprived of legal basis. He broke the constitution, exceeded his authority, broke the Public Finance Act. Ladies and gentlemen, please note that he himself designed the ballot. I didn't know you had so many talents. I didn't know you were also a computer graphic designer. Jacek Sasin personally accepted the model ballot, despite the State Election Commission, the electoral office. He just did it himself. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a good thing he hasn't printed the results yet. He didn't make it. 24 October 2019, Jacek Sasin, quote: Marian Banaś is a man needed by Poland. 29 November 2019, Jacek Sasin, the same quote: we expect Marian Banasia to resign. So what's it like? What's it like? This is a stateman. Or is it a non-stateman? Is it worth taking into account the Supreme Audit Chamber's controls, or not? Let's move on. On 5 April 2020, Jacek Sasin - note, I would like you to listen: I will resign if the election does not take place on 10 May. It didn't happen. It didn't happen. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] The election didn't take place. [[Are we talking about May this year or history from a year ago?]] Now, a quote from Minister Sasin of 20 May 2020 Jacek Sasin: I see no reason why I should resign. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Okay, let's move on. 14 December 2018, Jacek Sasin: there will be no increase in electricity prices for individual customers, neither for companies nor for local governments. 2021, Money Portal. electricity bills will increase by up to PLN 700 per household. This is your verification. Here we come to another important point - the mine in Turów. Do you know who is responsible for mining in Poland? [[Voice from the room: Sasin.]] Jacek Sasin. They sent the best man. Turos. It was this man who screwed up negotiations with the Czech Republic before the Court decided. It's said that a man learns from his mistakes, but you have to admit that Mr. Sasin is really overreacting. Now note: who was responsible for the Turov negotiations after the Court's decision? The best man. They dumped the best man. Jacek Sasin. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] And what happened, ladies and gentlemen? I guess it's predictable. Tweet Jack Sasina, 3 p.m. 7.30: I'm on my way to Turova, I have good information. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay. 12, Czech Prime Minister: I do not know anything about [[Applause]] How was this supposed to end? Well, Prime Minister, well. Ladies and gentlemen, how was this supposed to end? Today, Mr Kowalski said that this was a bad time to dismiss Sasin, because negotiations are taking place on the Turov case. This is the best time to cancel Sasina because there are negotiations on Turov! [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] After all, if this goes on, we won't be paying 5 million euros a day, only 6. Because we sent the best man there, Jack Sasin. What does Jacek Sasin say about the steel industry? After all, the steel industry is under his control as well. The Minister has extensive competence. Jacek Sasin, June 15, 2019: I think we can stop the process of putting out the ArcelorMittal plant in Krakow. The result is predictable, isn't it? The year 2020, October: the great furnace of the Krakow steelworks was extinguished. Jacek Sasin. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] That's not all. Power plants - that's also Jack Sasin's competence. All companies of the Treasury: mining, gas and power plants. Jacek Sasin, February 2020: the Ostrołęka plant will definitely be built. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] 2021, Ostrołęka's demolition started. Jacek Sasin. [[Applause]] I don't know if you know - I didn't know - but there was even a special term: sasinić. In the slang dictionary - I checked - it means, quote: plan to achieve success, positive result, but as a result do something wrong, just as well as inefficiently. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] I have this thesis today, and I think it's kind of obvious that Jacek Sasin should be canceled today. But, for God's sake, who was behind you calling him into this position? [[Tonight you're gonna want to protect him. He can't protect himself either.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let's go back to the envelope elections for a second. Now I will be very serious about what Prime Minister Morawiecki said. You didn't defend people, you didn't defend the country. In May 2020, as a group of politicians, you were going to carry out an office coup in order to lead to the illegal election of the President of the Republic of Poland. And you didn't make it, but the money was lost. The money was lost. For the first time in history, the Supreme Audit Chamber accuses the Prime Minister and Ministers of breaking the law. And what happened about it? What did the Polish state do after the accusations of the Supreme Chamber of Control? Here's the report. Nothing. There were public charges, the D.A.'s office took care of it, there was an investigation. Minister Ziobro, after 15 minutes at the press conference, said there was no case, that the case had been explained that there would be no investigation. The truth is, you wasted 70 million PLN, Minister Sasin. That's exactly what the Great Orchestra of Christmas Helping people during the COVID pandemic has collected. You've wasted so much. If you put all the ballots you printed on top of each other, this Sasina tower, we were counting on it, would be 29 km high. You wasted so much paper. The truth is, you and the government of Prime Minister Morawiecki committed crimes in democracy. First, together and in agreement, you took the State Election Commission's opportunity to hold elections, and then without a legal basis, you tried to hold them. Art. 7 of the Constitution is clear: public authorities operate on the basis and within the limits of the law. Let's check it out. Prime Minister Morawiecki talked about it. The government ordered the printing and distribution of packages for correspondence voting, although - attention - there was no law that would allow it to do so. Minister Sasin said he acted under the COVID Act. This bill came into force two days later. There's no way to defend it. [[Applause]] It's just undefensible. [[Lawless.]] Finally, you didn't even sign the contract. You were afraid of responsibility. You knew something was wrong. You didn't sign the contract because you were just scared. You wanted to get away from responsibility, drop responsibility on Polish Post and Polish Security Printing Works. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There is a great challenge before the future authority regarding the settlement of this power. I have no doubt about it. Today, on behalf of the entire Civic Coalition, I want to make a solemn promise that each of these matters that we are discussing in this Chamber will be clarified. I would like to see Minister Sasin today, here, from this speaker, say who will be responsible for the waste of 70 million PLN. [[The Platform should be responsible for this.]] Will you give it back from the money from the PiS money? Will you take this from your son? Where are you gonna get that money? That money should be returned to the state budget. Finally, I will recall the words of President Jarosław Kaczyński, who is here. Mr. President, if you don't mind, you said this idea of an envelope election was mine. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]] Yes, Prime Minister. I'll tell you more, Prime Minister, all this corrupt society, this mafia country based on interdependencies, all this mess, chaos, all that you've let go of, 70 million zlotys wasted, all this waste, Ostrołęka, and all that stuff I've been talking about, that's your credit. It's all your fault. [[Applause]] Which doesn't release Mr. Sasin's responsibility. I have a few more words for Members of the PiS. Let's be clear. I would like to make this clear, and I think we all think the same: what you've been doing for six years is not the norm in democracy. This is pathology. [[Applause]] It's just pure pathology when it comes to waste, nepotism, guys and all that stuff we talked about. The truth is, in today's vote on Jack Sasina's appeal, you will de facto defend yourselves, not Jack Sasina. You will defend your jobs, your supervisory boards, your sons, your cousins, your aunts, your mothers, the people who are employed by the Treasury companies. This is what you will defend today because you have made your property from the Polish state. Sweet money, wives, brother-in-laws. [[For me.]] Poland is drowning in corruption and guyhood. All I'm gonna say is, the Poles are gonna take it all away from you. They'll take more from you in the next election. The sooner the better. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That is why we are applying for a vote of distrust against the Minister of State Assets, Mr Jack Sasin. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u391	I now ask Mrs Iwona Arent to present the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u392	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the parliamentary motion for a vote of distrust against the Minister of State Assets, Deputy Prime Minister Jacek Sasin, in print No. 1262 and No. 1302. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed this The committee held its meeting on 22 June 2021. I would like to present to you what happened at the meeting, especially since most of you were not there. At the beginning, the Member's representative of the applicants provided a justification. Of course, at the very beginning he pointed out that this proposal was an expression of opposition to the Minister's actions, in particular those concerning supervision of the subordinate Material Reserve Agency, the organisation of presidential elections and the collapse of mining. The citizens' platform's proposal is also based on information from NIK, as the applicant's representative said. Mr Maciej Małecki took the floor following the speech of the Member of the applicant's representative and explained that the complaint against Prime Minister Jacek Sasin concerning the supervision of the Material Reserve Agency was completely missed. The Ministry of State Assets has not overseen the Material Reserve Agency since 20 March 2020, moreover, on 17 December 2020, the Sejm adopted a law on the transformation of the Material Reserve Agency into the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency. Therefore, the proposal, as the Minister said, is inefficiently prepared, clumsy and contains embarrassing errors that you Members should know about, all the more so because it was the Sejm that adopted the law on change. Applicants don't know his name or who he is under the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency. The Minister then assessed that the proposal has no substantive justification, it is purely political. He said the opposition wants to cancel Deputy Prime Minister Jacek Sasin because he has effective and effective supervision of the Treasury companies, which achieve high results, which were lacking [[Applause]] in the days of the PO-PSL government. Because the recipe of the government of Donald Tusk - I keep quoting what happened at the committee meeting - was short: closing companies, privatizing and selling. Madam President, it is my duty as rapporteur to quote what was happening at the committee meeting because most of you were not there. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Minister said that under the supervision of Prime Minister Jacek Sasin of the State Treasury company during the crisis of the COVID pandemic they supported Poles. Despite the difficult situation, investments in companies were historically high. Since the existence of the Ministry of State Assets, the value of companies has increased by more than 20 billion PLN. The State Treasury's share gained [[Applause]] for the value of PLN 9 billion. The Minister also spoke about Prime Minister Jacek Sasin's conversations with the social side. Prime Minister Jacek Sasin talks to the miners, not to shoot the miners with rubber balls. [[Applause]] Also thanks to Prime Minister Sasin, Polish LOT was granted public aid, which in the face of the pandemic was actually on the verge of danger. Thanks to the funding, it was possible for the company to continue to operate because during the reign of Prime Minister Donald Tusk LOT he threatened to fall and the government did not want to save the Polish carrier. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: And rightly so.]] The Minister then referred to examples of the success of the Ministry of State Assets under the direction of Mr Jack Sasin. Mrs Skowrońska! All this has been done at the committee meeting, and I quote it. [[Voice from the courtroom: But in the four hundred and nine...]] Mrs Skowrońska! Once again, because you are shouting at me: The Ministry of State Assets under the direction of Mr.Jack Sasin has such successes as the recovery of PLN 6 billion from Russian Gazprom... [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...building of the Oncological Medicine Center in Polfa Tarchomin... [[The construction of the shuttle.]] ...in 2020 KGHM achieved a record profit, launching the construction of a multi-energy group that will be able to compete in real terms in global markets - it is a merger, of course, you know, Orlen, LOTOS and PGNiG. Recolonization, consolidation of assets for the benefit of companies and the Polish economy. Finally, the Minister pointed out that capital has nationality, and the Polish state's reason is to invest and develop Polish companies and support Polish workers. [[Applause]] Then, during the committee meeting, many people asked questions. I'm just going to quote a few, because I'm not able to quote everyone, because the meeting lasted over three hours. Some of the questions, of course, were completely unsubstantiated, and it was difficult to refer to them. However, one of the Members spoke about the lack of aid from the Treasury companies during the COVID pandemic, to which the Minister replied that such allegations were false and harmful, because, for example, Polfa Tarchomin produced oxygen, protected masks and equipment, KGHM invested in the purchase of masks, Polish Hotel Holding prepared places for isolation for the sick, and the Treasury companies during the pandemic were first involved in saving people. [[Applause]] Then came the request of one of the Members to withdraw the vote of distrust, because talks are currently underway in the Czech Republic on the Turov issue, and this is affecting the reduction of the negotiating position of our government on the TSUE. This question was answered by the applicant, wishing very good negotiations, s then stated that he wanted to talk about NIK and report, because this is a fundamental matter, not Turov's case. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] There was another question about the Gazprom case I mentioned earlier. The Minister explained that the recovery of PLN 6 billion from Gazprom was a success of Prime Minister Jacek Sasin, because the PO has never made such a proposal, and only thanks to the effective actions of Prime Minister Jacek Sasin, this money from Gazprom has flowed to us and is invested in our companies today. [[But there was our conclusion!]] The next question concerned [[Applause]] KGHM's condition during the Civic Platform... [[Oh...]] ... PO, where there was a loss of 12 billion PLN. Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, former Member of the Civic Platform, was then president of the Supreme Audit Chamber. And the question is, why didn't the inspection be carried out then, why didn't NIK do the inspection, even though there was really a substantive basis for this? There was no answer at the committee meeting, so it's hard for me to tell you what it should be like here. The next Member considered that the proposal was completely unfounded and mentioned that once Marshal Kidawa-Błońska said about Marian Banasiu that it should be removed from all controls, and today the PO refers to Marian Banasia's control... [[The voice from the hall: But it's Banana...]] ...then this Member assessed that the proposal was absurd. [[Voice from the room: What are you saying?]] I'm saying what happened at the committee meeting. I'm not the one who's talking, I'm saying it... [[Voice from the hall: Banas...]] ...what happened at the committee meeting. [[Applause]] Those aren't my words. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Don't yell at the Member. But I'm really quoting... [[Voice from the room: Read the rules.]] ...so you know... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Don't yell at the Member. ...so you know what happened at the committee meeting. During the meeting there were many more... [[Voice from the room: We can watch the transmission.]] ...many MPs. Some of the questions were not always substantive, and some were opinions and tirades. The Ministry's representatives sought to answer in detail the questions that could be answered. [[Voice from the room: This is an evaluation. Your assessment.]] Finally, in the vote on the parliamentary motion for a vote of distrust against the Minister of State Assets, Prime Minister Jacek Sasin, the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets has decided to give a negative opinion. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[But you manipulated it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u393	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Questions are not acceptable as a separate element of the debate. First on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, Mr Marek Suski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u394	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! We would like to say that the motion for a vote of distrust towards the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister or the Minister is a serious matter because they are the people responsible for the fate of the country, the society. That's the way it's supposed to be. But what are we dealing with here? We are dealing with a political proposal, and when we listened to the President's justification, I felt that it was not a serious proposal. The speech was rather a cabaret rather than a serious debate. [[The voice from the hall: Cabaret was.]] [[Voice from the room: Stand-up.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs Arent, because she presented very carefully, but in short, what was at the committee meeting. [[Voice from the Chamber: She presented her opinion.]] No, that was exactly... In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the rapporteur has not only the right but also the duty to convey what was happening at the committee meeting, and she has given it to you. I understand the truth in the eyes of the circle and you'll be interrupting. Ladies and gentlemen! What do we read in this statement? The request to express a vote of distrust towards Deputy Prime Minister Jack Sasina is an expression of opposition to the Minister's actions. But this is an opposition to the actions of the Government of Law and Justice, because Prime Minister Jacek Sasin is pursuing the State Treasury's wealth management policy, the multiplication of its assets, as the rapporteur said. [[Voice from the room: For both of you.]] Yes, if we look at orlen's income at least, we can see that in a year it had more income than in eight years of your government. [[Applause]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, because we approach wealth as a resource that needs to be managed and that is to bring income to our country. [[Voice from the room: Stolen.]] Stealing it was your rule. [[Applause]] Here you can cite an example of these thousands of cars, tanks that entered Poland without taxes, which simply drained our pockets. [[Voice from the room: Don't lie!]] Our government just changed that. [[Applause]] With this money, you could even run a program like 500+. You didn't do it. You didn't even try to do it. [[The voice from the hall: Don't lie, man!]] Ladies and gentlemen! What exactly is the point of this proposal? One capable director can be quoted here: to make it the way it was. So that various private, maybe even mafia, companies make huge money... [[Voice from the hall: Ministry of Finance Banasia.]] ...and the Treasury didn't have anything to do with taking people's money from the OFE to patch the budget hole. That's how you ruled. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Where did Orlen's income come from? From our...]] Mrs Arent talked about how companies of the State Treasury under the management of Prime Minister Sasin helped Poles during the pandemic, how they bought equipment, finance hospitals, clinics, DPSs. Yes, these companies supported our citizens. And what were the companies doing when you were in charge? They financed the libations of your ministers. [[Voice from the hall: Don't lie, man. Don't lie to me!]] [[And Moravian. Morawiecki was there, too.]] Yes, they financed the libations of your ministers. We remember when Minister Jan Bury got drunk at a hotel, and the Treasury company paid for it. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] That's how you managed the estate. That's how you used it. We use this wealth for our citizens. It's the responsibility of the state. In fact, Minister Sasina's actions deserve a credit card, not to be cancelled. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! You're talking about the election. There was even a thought that your marshal withdrew from the election because it was meant to be enveloped. But we all remember that she backed out because she had catastrophic results and you wanted to change the candidate. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: You're lying!]] [[What an insolent thing to do.]] [[That was your insolence.]] And your self-governments were refurbishing the halls for the election. [[Voice from the room: You wanted to set the urns under Orlen. That's the kind of choices you wanted to make.]] And as for those envelopes that you have so much resentment about, they were there to save the health and life of our citizens. That's why you want to cancel Jack Sasina. Then call off your marshal. He also had some envelopes about which he said they were supposed to save lives (the bell) and the health of the citizens. [[Voice from the room: Don't lie to me, Suski.]] Only there was money he took as bribes. [[And you're gonna go to court for that.]] You don't want to cancel this marshal. Those envelopes are good, these are bad. Ladies and gentlemen! This conclusion is absurd. [[Voice from the room: It's ridiculous.]] Minister Jacek Sasin is doing his job very well and should be left to this position. [[Voice in the O.R.: Cancel.]] Law and Justice will be against this idiotic proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u395	You have the voice of Marshal Margaret Kidawa-Błońska, the Civic Coalition. [[Applause]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u396	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The Prime Minister said it was an Olympic year and that there was such competition. If there was such discipline in breaking the law and the constitution, you'd have a gold medal. [[Applause]] Our request to express a vote of distrust is an expression of our assessment of the actions of Minister Jacek Sasina, Minister of Emergency, as the President said. In fact, what he doesn't touch is gonna ruin it. I even feel sorry for the Minister because he must feel bad in the morning, knowing that something bad will happen and something will be wasted in our country. [[Applause]] In assessing the Minister's many sins, we found that his participation in the organisation of the presidential elections in May 2020 was perhaps the greatest. [[Then you need to call off the marshal.]] Not only did he show inability, but during the first wave of pandemics he led to completely unnecessary electoral, constitutional and democratic chaos in our country. You didn't bring in a state of emergency either then or afterwards. You forced the election despite the lack of legal grounds for such an election. [[Applause]] There have been difficulties in completing electoral committees and, above all, putting citizens' lives and health at risk. Minister! People speak among themselves, there is a saying, you can find on the Internet: may you Sasin never wish well. All Poland knows that what you touch turns out to be a misfire. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] You guaranteed the Poles compensation for the electricity. She's not here yet. You announced that you were going to Turov with good news. Now you're saying that it doesn't provide for an agreement to be concluded very quickly. In February, you promised Poles that a Polish line producing vaccines on COVID would start. It's June, 40 million zlotys have been spent, and there's no brewery. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] And it was you who guaranteed that the envelope elections were well prepared and legal. And then the court and the NIK found that they had nothing to do with legality. And what does the Supreme Auditorium say now? For the first time in our country's history, he accuses the Prime Minister, the Head of the MFA, the Minister of State Assets and KPRM of breaking the law. Here the head of the Polish government issued two administrative decisions concerning correspondence elections without a legal basis. This is a really serious problem. Minister, this was all under your eye. On the basis of the Prime Minister's unlawful decision, the court confirmed it, made arrangements with the Polish Securities and Post Office regarding card printing. And you were totally conscious of that, because even the expertise of the KPRM Legal Department clearly pointed to the unlawfulness of these actions. [[Applause]] You knew this was illegal, and yet you did. Incompetence, chaos and oral decisions are emerging from the report by NIK. In view of all these facts, do you consider your decisions legal? You hid your head in the sand. You didn't show up at the committee meeting. You were afraid to dismiss the charges. Minister, you're a weak man, because even in this situation, you've tried to put your responsibility on the Prime Minister. If you're taking responsibility for the Prime Minister, that means you're not fit to be Minister of Government because you can't take the case on your chest and admit you're wrong. [[Applause]] You said democracy costs money. It's true. Democracy is priceless, therefore responsibility is needed for its protection, honesty is needed, courage is needed and action is needed for the common good and your actions had nothing to do with concern for the common good. Your actions are costs incurred for incapacity and lawlessness, which have nothing to do with democracy or the proper electoral process. You spent millions of money when Poles had to face great difficulties. You have taken away the powers of the State Election Commission. That's illegal, too. I hear from Members of the PiS that the opposition is responsible for all this chaos. My name is changed by all cases. Are you afraid of the truth? Yeah, I've been guarding the Constitution, and I'll always do that. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] And now you should be grateful that these envelope elections didn't happen because we'd have an illegal president. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Bożen Boris-Raccoon: Thanks to you, yes?]] [[Thank you, ma'am.]] The Minister really has no happiness in his life and should not be our government's minister, because we cannot afford such an expensive minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[A voice from the courtroom: Who prepared this for you, Marshal?]] [[But she read it flawlessly. Let's not charge too much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u397	Ms Beata Maciejewska will speak on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u398	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Jarosław Kaczyński's army has arrived and is sitting in government benches. Among them is Sergeant Sasin, a loyal soldier of the President. But you haven't checked in to do your job, sergeant. It didn't work out for you to make an envelope election. That's how you tried, that's how you keyed, that's how you used your money and nothing. The election of envelopes did not take place, even though there was a political order from President Kaczyński and there was a clear goal... [[The Constitution shall determine.]] ...andrzej Duda's victory in the presidential election. [[Voice from the hall: I won.]] What wouldn't you do to get him to win this election? Everything. The whole PiS-owska organized group didn't go back to anything. The fact that you broke the law confirmed the legal analyses you ordered, was confirmed by the administrative court and the Supreme Audit Chamber. NIK simply described this matter: the actions taken to prepare the presidential elections which did not take place resulted in the economic expense of PLN 56 450 406 and PLN 16 from the Treasury and the financial damage caused to companies of importance for the economy of the State: Poczta Polska and the Polish Securities Printing Works. You're a minister of state assets that destroys state assets on a political order. In our opinion, in the Left's opinion, you deserve a crime. In a civilized country, the entire PiS government should resign... [[Yeah, you would.]] ...and the non-economic spending of state money should be judged on the basis of the Penal Code. But we don't live in a civilized country, we live in a PiS state. In the PiS state you do not say: we have put the country at risk of financial damage. You say we've incurred the cost of democracy. [[Applause]] In the PiS state you do not say: local governments did not want to participate in illegal activities. You say there's been an obstruction from the government. In the PiS state you do not say: we have organised an illegal election. You say it was a higher necessity. And indeed, for you, this is a greater necessity, because that is what the president tells you to do. This is how Kaczyński's army works - an organized political group acting on behalf of the state. I'll tell you what, Sergeant Sasin, you could have done with that 70 million zloty you threw in the mud. This 70 million PLN is 90 ambulances with equipment, it's one county hospital, it's 3.5 thousand. In vitro treatments, that's 4 million children's lunches in schools, that's over 10 crèches, and that's an annual salary for over a thousand nurses and paramedics that you recently refused to raise in this room. [[Applause]] And it was these people who put their lives and health at risk the most when, contrary to the pandemic, you pushed for elections and instead of dealing with the pandemic, you dealt with party puzzles. You're the passive soldier of this PiS organized group, Sergeant Sasin. [[Voice from the room: It's an honor.]] Obedience and interests of the party above all else. That's why the PiS army is standing behind you today. But there's gonna be a time when we're not gonna live in the PiS anymore. [[We live in a Polish country, ma'am.]] It will be a time when politicians will pay for their mistakes and omissions, when they will take personal responsibility for their actions, when they will be accountable to the justice system, just as ordinary Kowalski is responsible... [[Voice from the O.R.: I'm already scared. Exkomuna.]] ...when the punishment of 22 million PLN per day imposed on Poland by the TSUE will not be minimized when it is not mocked by climate change or by the miners, while importing coal from Russia. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You are the head of such a wonderful ministry, and you are destroying Poland so much. After all, it is both about today's Poles and about future generations. And that's why you should be dismissed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the room: This is bullshit.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u399	Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u400	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well done, ladies and gentlemen. Does any of you in this room remember that password? [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] Exactly. An efficient country - that was the slogan of Law and Justice when it reached for power. At that time, an efficient state was changed by all cases. Today is an excellent opportunity for Minister Jack Sasin to... [[Let me see.]] ...check this out and answer the basic question: What is the difference between theory and practice? We take mining and energy as an example. The Belchats. In May of this year there was a failure which was not yet in Poland. Ten power blocks out on 11 possible. Four GWs went into the air. Why did this happen? At the meeting of the Sejm committee, a representative of the Polish Power Grids said, quote: someone carried out grounding in the power station in their own way. This is a functioning country? Does Minister Jacek Sasin have the courage to tell Poles today how many millions had to be paid to Germany, the Czech Republic and Slovakia for having run out of electricity in Poland? Do you have the courage to say that this was all covered in our pockets? But that's not all. A few days later in Bełchatów there was a huge fire of a conveyor belt that supplies coal to the power plant. Professionals claim it's a simple in-service negligence. Is this how you look? I will not mention that in the case of Bełchatów you are completely unlucky, because at about the same time even the Jupiter at GKS Stadium burned down. [[And then they fell into the second league.]] Notabene GKS has fallen into the second league. I would not mention this, if today the Prime Minister had not touched on sports topics and if we had not remembered what President Andrzej Duda once said about Polish sport: the state of Polish sport, especially team games, is a sad reflection of the state of the Polish state. Do you agree with this statement from the PiS? And I'm not talking about dropping out of the European Championship today. If you continue to rule this way, Bełchatów and other cities that stand on coal will be Polish Detroit. You gotta get to work. But the pearls in the crown of the state of PiS are Ostrołęka and Turów. Turów is the perfect symbol, the image you are the leader of the Visegrad Group. Ostrołęka - write, mark the monument to the functioning of the PiS state, your economy. And today, before this debate, you say: we must avoid criticizing Jack Sasin, avoid this vote of distrust, otherwise we will weaken the negotiating position in discussions with the Czech Republic. Is there any way to weaken the negotiating position with the Czech Republic? [[Applause]] [[Ha, ha, ha.]] But I have an idea. There's a good way to improve the negotiating position with the Czechs. Cancel Minister Jack Sasin with us today, and we'll win right away. [[Applause]] And now let's talk about electricity, because this applies to all Poles. Here's the story, what Minister Jacek Sasin said about the electricity increases. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of 2019, in November, when the spectrum of large increases in electricity came, Minister Sasin says that the increases will not cover individual farms. A month later, he says they're gonna be, but they're not that big. In January, the Minister says there will be compensation. When they ask in May, he says the bill is ready. Unfortunately, in December, the Minister said that there would be no compensation, and we have what we have: huge increases in electricity prices. [[Applause]] Not to mention what is missing in Polish energy. You can't ask to join. It's a constant malfunction. [[And the most expensive electricity.]] We remember a few days ago in Łódź. To build a GPZ, you can't get involved, local government asked you to hide the power line and expand the city - there's no money for all of this. But they're having a good time in the company next door. Orlen Press was formed in Orlen. The new company, under the supervision of Mr.Jack Sasin, was working to reform the local press, because it turns out that there were not enough fairy tales in the local press so far about a functioning state of law and justice. I think that when it comes to electricity increases, because it hurts the Poles the most, this dictation, as an electrician of high tensions, should carry as punishment, as penance, [[Applause]] I want people to know how you run the Polish energy industry. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Jacek Sasin should be canceled. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u401	Mr Krystian Kaminski, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u402	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! Minister! To paraphrase, you are the Minister as far as possible of the PiS. You're an exemplification of what the ministries look like under the PiS. If you weren't sitting here today, I'd say you're a projection of the citizens' platform's dream. A minister who can't be told anything good, and there's a lot of bad news. Let's say three of these main charges. First of all, what has been said many times, but you defend yourselves - envelope elections. The NIK report is crushing your business. Lack of legitimacy, lack of legal basis, loss of more than 70 million. Any reflections? I don't think so. Second topic - Ostrołęka. Here expenditure amounts to over PLN 1 billion. First we build a coal power plant in Ostrołęka, then we tear it down and make it gas-free with no infrastructure for transmission. What did you say about the Ostroleka case? This is a monument that is changing very quickly and in a manner that is impossible to predict the European Union's climate policy. Really? Because when this investment was planned, when it began to be built, it seemed that the coal power plant could build and work. [[Voice from the room: Bullshit.]] Minister, this is above all a monument to the failed energy policy of the PiS. And for the billion that we're going to have to pay, the owners of the limited companies are gonna drop out, the people who lost the abolition relief, who are paying the sugar tax. They're gonna finance your inability. But will they be happy about it? I don't think so. And then there's the third topic - Turov. When I found out you were the main negotiator of our country, I was wondering what went wrong. Is this some kind of Czech movie? You were in Prague and participated in talks with the Czech Minister of the Environment. It's not exactly your fault. In fact, it's a pebble to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because we haven't had an ambassador in the Czech Republic in over a year, and he should have done it diplomatically by now. [[Applause]] That's the basic problem. You're not actually guilty here, but I don't think you're gonna negotiate anything here. There's one thing I don't understand. Why are you undermining your superior Prime Minister? Recently Prime Minister Morawiecki said that the Czech Republic agreed to withdraw its application to the TSUE on the Turov power plant, and now you say that the situation is difficult and the case will not end quickly. You think the Prime Minister lied? You know what? There is such a quote in the Scriptures: If any kingdom is divided internally, such a kingdom cannot stand. And I get the feeling that the disorganized right hand isn't gonna last. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u403	Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u404	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This term will become history as Sasin's term of office. Because Jacek Sasin is a figure that describes the essence of the PiS government much better than even Jarosław Kaczyński. Why? First of all, there's two cases, but it's less caliber than the third most important one. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Jarosław Kaczyński.]] Firstly, the envelope elections were activities, Prime Minister, radically anti-state elections, and we said this to your emissaries when you solicited us to vote in favour of the envelope elections. This would undermine democratic legitimacy in the Polish state. You had a perfectly legal opportunity to move these elections into a state of emergency enshrined in the Constitution. You didn't take advantage of it. You didn't want to use it. [[How much? For two years? How much?]] You wanted to go to the rhyme. You wanted to go to question the democratic legitimacy of elections in Poland and this was the most radically anti-state action you could take. That's one thing. Secondly, you completely capitulated on the issue of Polish energy, energy sovereignty within the European Union. You guys are as pro-EU as you can be. You're going under the dictation of Germany and France. For energy reasons, you've capitulated on every front. We don't have an atom, we eliminate coal, the gas is about to flow from Russia via Germany. This is the result of your energy policy. No sovereignty, no thinking. And there's Sasin in that, too. Finally, the third most important thing. Jacek Sasin is a symbol of the imposiability of this team, a symbol of a country that is a very simple continuation of the Third Republic of Poland... [[In fact, you're the symbol.]] ...is a symbol of a country in which the only reformed institution is the tax administration, and that's only because Banas did it, whose conclusions today are the basis for charging you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is the measure of surrender, because you've filled the entire state with your people, but you haven't created one, except for this tax administration, a strong institution, and once you leave governments, it's all gonna fall apart like a house of cards. This is the measure and symbol of your governments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u405	Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u406	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The descendants will draw the motto of Jack Sasin's stay on the seat of the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of State Assets with the following golden reports: It is not possible to spoil everything, but it is worth a try. [[Applause]] However, Minister Sasin must be told that he has come up with a few things. He became an icon of pop culture, a live online meme, a symbol of the hypocrisy and impunity of the new PiS elites, litmus paper of wrong decisions and a unit of measurement not only wasted funds. Capo bastone Sasino, one of the most powerful heads of the PiS government system, is a stand for thousands of soldiers of good change pushed on lucrative positions, cameras richer on the estate of the State Treasury of the brightest Republic under the watchful eye of Don Presidente del consiglio di amministrazione Jarosław Żoliborzański. [[What... jokes. You can't listen to that.]] I do not hope that the motion for a vote of distrust towards Deputy Prime Minister Sasina will get the majority in the vote, because this resignation would mean the passing of a man symbolizing a closed system of power. In this powerful, paramaphic arrangement, Jack Sasina's position is indisputable. He's a dirty man. He always follows the orders of the party superiors. To his own he is loyal and requires loyalty. After the Smolensk disaster, when Jacek Sasin lost his job at the Presidential Palace, Ryszard Madziar, then Mayor of Volomin, took him in. The local government quickly became a large storage room for the people of PiS. They didn't have the power then, and they needed the money. After the election victory, the Volomian model system became a subsystem of the central system. Sasin was generous, closer and more distant associates, their relatives and wives found profitable jobs in state companies. The taxpayers' money paid hundreds of thousands of zlotys for their salaries. Qualifications, work results didn't matter. Poland ruled by the United Right was owned by such agreements closed. Certain state positions were taken by the Order of PCs, others - zybrystych, and others - wojinists. Today, the number of millionaires who earn huge money on the boards of the Treasury companies is growing. The mechanism is the same. What matters is who's their own, not whether or not the taxpayer loses. The PiS has stopped wearing any brakes a long time ago. The incompetent state managers Jacek Sasin is patronizing expose taxpayers to enormous losses. That $71 million wasted on the envelope election is just the tip of the iceberg. Three times more, because 210 million, supervised by Jack Sasina Orlen spent on the purchase of the Polish Press. The fuel company invests in the dying press industry. This is another money thrown into the mud and most likely spent against the law. PLN 1 billion was wasted on the construction of coal power plant in Ostrołęka, and giant concrete blocks had to be destroyed. These blocks recall the association with the two towers that PiS wanted to build in Warsaw at Silver. These towers are a symbol of the layout whose main patron is Jarosław Kaczyński. This arrangement is in the hands of the state and feeds on it. He needs people like Jacek Sasin, criminal and loyal. Thanks to this arrangement, the PiS has a lot of money, gives positions, takes in exchange a large, supposedly voluntary contribution. He can afford expensive expertise, public opinion polls, external legal opinions. Miracle money seems easy. There are billions of zlotys in the system that go to the lot's cash register and private pockets. Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 realizes that voting on this vote of distrust it actually has symbolic meaning, but it is an important symbol. We are convinced that one day we will be able to break this paramaphic closed system. Just introduce clear and fully transparent rules for recruitment to state-owned companies, offices, institutions. Let us give Poland to Poles and Poles, experts who will be much better in managing state companies, because they have competences which PiS-owska bison can only dream of. No more pluralization of Poland. Every vote for Jack's vote of distrust Sasina is the vote for defending the rest of the country that we still have left. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u407	Prime Minister Jacek Sasin will speak. You're welcome. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u408	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I must say that I am very disappointed by the presentation by Mr Tomczyk, who presented this proposal, because his presentation has completely missed the content of the proposal. [[We're disappointed in your work.]] It was not a presentation, it was a cabaret which Mr Tomczyk decided to play in this Chamber. [[Applause]] I am not surprised that he did not refer to the content of the proposal, which he and his colleagues submitted, because he would have to completely compromise himself here. Firstly, he would have to explain to the High House how it is that the Civic Platform, the Civic Coalition, wants to deprive me of my position for improper supervision of an institution that I do not supervise. It's actually a complete embarrassment. Who wrote you, ladies and gentlemen, this motion? You should fire him from work. [[And hire Sobolewski's wife.]] [[But you're...]] Second, for the second time, you want me... Ladies and gentlemen, for the second time. Already try to call me off for organising the presidential elections last year, in 2020. So maybe I'll explain it to you again, because maybe this time it'll come to you... [[But it did.]] ...though I have no great hope that you will be able to accept yourself, to take note of the simplest possible facts that, I think, know children at school who know how our country is organized. But, you see, you can't know that. The highest law in Poland is the constitution. [[Voice from the room: Yes, it is.]] You've screamed so many times: Constitution. You've been calling for a constitution so many times. Then maybe you could read the article. 128 constitutions that clearly define when presidential elections take place. [[Voice from the room: Let's start with Art. 7.]] You may recall, ladies and gentlemen, that the Marshal of the Sejm, on the basis of a constitution, has set a deadline for the presidential election for 10 May 2020. [[But you? But you?]] We stood as a government, as the Council of Ministers, who is responsible for Poland and Poles, before the extremely difficult task of meeting this constitutional term, and at the same time not endangering the health and life of Poles in the face of the pandemic. You didn't care. All that mattered to you was your political interest. The only thing that matters to you is that your candidate you introduced as a presidential candidate was at some point 3%. support in the surveys. [[Don't talk such nonsense.]] You wanted to endanger the health of Poles and the life of Poles only to replace your candidate. If today you're accusing me or anyone in our government of not having made these choices, I'll remind you of your words. Your Marshal, you may recall what you said on June 8, 2020. That's when you said, quote, I threw out the May elections. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: That's it.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: About the Vistula Mill.]] [[Well done, because today we wouldn't have a president.]] [[Voice from the room: Illegal elections.]] You may recall what President Trzaskowski said on June 28th. R. thanked the Senate - yes, your Senate, where you have the majority - and the locals from the Civic Platform that they paralyzed these elections... [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Just like Mr. Ostrołęka paralyzed.]] ...and that they didn't just happen because of their efforts. [[They followed the law.]] You're the ones responsible for the money being spent preparing for these elections. 'Cause you guys blocked the election. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] You broke the constitution. And you should be standing under the hierarchy today, being accused of trampling on democracy. Because you trampled on the constitution, you wanted Poles to take away the right to elect a president. [[Voice from the courtroom: Pseudobora, which did not take place.]] You wanted chaos in Poland. You wanted to lead to such a situation that there would be no president in Poland. 'Cause you guys are all chaos. You guys are just in chaos. [[Voice from the room: Nothing would have happened.]] [[Voice from the room: Is the president here now?]] [[Voice from the room: Has anyone seen the president?]] You do not care about Polish business at all. And go on, ladies and gentlemen. In this debate, you are accusing the wrong HR policy in the Treasury companies... [[Voice from the room: Family.]] ...which supposedly leads to the fact that Polish taxpayers are at risk. Well, I'll tell you what the state Treasury companies managed by these supposedly bad managers look like. [[Voice from the hall: From the shipyard in Szczecin start.]] [[What company does Mrs Arent work in?]] Let me tell you this: since the Ministry of State Assets was established in November 2019, the value of companies of the State Treasury has increased by more than 20 billion PLN. [[First you split...]] Of this share of the State Treasury in these companies - about 9 billion PLN. 20 companies of the State Treasury recorded an increase in income by more than 30%, including companies such as KGHM and Polimex Mostostal - almost 100%. [[Voice from the hall: But don't lie, man.]] You've never even gotten close in your governments to these results, even though these companies, in your governments, have been managed by brilliant professionals. They weren't doing well. [[...asset prices.]] If you're talking about us mismanaging property, how do you assess your management? Let me add that, in the meantime, since November 2019, we have had - you probably know - a pandemic of Coronavirus. And yet, the percentage increase in the value of the Treasury companies is 7.9%. at this time, including the period of Coronavirus. [[Voice from the room: 2015...]] By comparison... 'Cause you're gonna say in a minute that all the companies are growing. No, ladies and gentlemen, companies outside the Treasury sector at that time experienced a 0.7% decrease. So what's it like? Are managers well managed who have been appointed to these companies during our governments or wrong? [[It's catastrophic.]] Do you know it better, or can you assess it better, or do investors who invest in these companies and cause it benefit from the fact that the increase in the value of companies is happening at the rate I said? Ladies and gentlemen! If we want to think today about getting out of the crisis effectively, which is caused by the pandemic of Coronavirus - although the scale of this crisis in Poland thanks to the actions of our government, also thanks to these initiatives presented by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, is much smaller than in other countries of the European Union... [[Voice from the hall: Because more people died.]] Because I will remind you that in Poland there was a decrease in GDP by 2.8% while in Germany by 5%, in France by 8%, and I am not talking about the countries of southern Europe: Spain or Italy. [[Voice from the room: Then think about why.]] However, to get out of this slowing down, temporary slowing down, big investments are needed. These great investments in Polish conditions are also investments which are carried out by companies of the State Treasury. [[Voice from the room: Dig the gauges.]] Well, I would like to inform you that if in 2020 investments by companies, all enterprises, decreased by 13%, while investments by companies of the State Treasury amounted to almost PLN 44 billion. [[The voice from the room: After all, this is bullshit.]] That was an increase of 19% compared to what happened last year. [[Polska Press.]] Of course, you are unable to accept this because these are hard numbers. [[Voice from the room: Ostrołęka is...]] And all you can do is swim in demagogy, that's all you're good at. When we talk about numbers, then you keep quiet, then you have nothing to say because it breaks your narrative. Among these large investments carried out by the State Treasury companies are investments such as the construction of the Olesin complex in Płock, which Orlen is implementing for PLN 13.5 billion, a huge investment, which will increase energy efficiency, will reduce CO emissions. Second investment, Polimery Police. The value of this investment is PLN 7.5 billion. This will allow us to bury the deficit that is so far... [[Maybe the other way around.]] ...in the area of plastics we need to import. Finally, the construction by Polfa Tarchomin of the modern oncology medicine factory for PLN 450 million, mentioned here in the discussion. You don't see it, because it's really... [[Voice from the room: Lowest level of investment.]] ...it doesn't match your image that you're doing here with such a fierceness. And finally, energy and mining. You have made a complaint about the collapse of Polish mining, which is supposed to be my participation. I understand you're trying to demonize me. Because of me, the Material Reserve Agency, which is my responsibility, works badly, for the Polish energy networks that are not my responsibility, and in the discussion you also held me responsible, the private factory of the foreign entity is also the fault of Sasin. [[Yes, sir.]] GKS Bełchatów Stadium is also Sasin, that the lamps broke there. Well, you can do that, of course. You can have me, too. accuse of the collapse of the mining industry, but you have a problem, because the Deputy Prime Minister of your government, Elżbieta Bieńkowska, said in the Sovies and Friends to Mr Wojtunik: [[Voice from the room: Morawiecki...]] The Ministry of Economy generally in d..., here I will no longer use the whole word, had the whole mining for seven years. There was money, and they know... [[It's not a Russian provocation, is it?]] ...they drank, they smoked, they drank their people, you know how much money they made, and all of a sudden it fell, although she used a more explicit word that I wouldn't want here because of the room we're in, to use. You say that there is no dialogue with the miners, you say in your conclusion that we do not provide the miners with a good future. I'm the one who's gonna show you what the dialogue was like in your execution. Here you go, this is a photo from the Hawk-Zdrój from the beginning of 2015. [[Applause]] Who was in charge then? Law and Justice? No! This is the second picture, that's how you and the miners had a dialogue. [[Shame on you!]] Then Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz and your Home Minister Mrs Piotrowska ruled. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] That's the dialogue you're having. You've been leading, and today you're accusing us of not having a dialogue... [[Masters of dialogue.]] ...when we talk to the miners in this difficult situation in which Polish mining was found because of the European Union's climate policy. [[Voice from the room: Tell that to the nurses.]] We are talking, over 20 plenary talks with trade unions active in mining. Hundreds of meetings in smaller formats. [[No results.]] The result of these talks is a social agreement signed between the government and all mining unions, which guarantees the extinction of mining by 2049 in social peace and in the provision of good social security for miners, a good future. Because this is how we solve disputes, not with tear gas, water cannons and smooth-bore weapons, just like you did. [[Voice from the room: Gas? Tell that to protesting women.]] That's what you guys really are. And, ladies and gentlemen, here's what I'm gonna say. I wonder if you're really incompetent enough to make such an inept conclusion, such a conclusion full of inaccuracies... [[I wonder why Mr. President...]] ...full of embarrassing actually mistakes that could be avoided if you just looked at the Internet for a moment, and you weren't even able to do that. Or is it really something else that you want to call me off for a completely different reason? Well, I don't suspect you're that incompetent and that you're not able to check the basic facts, so it's probably something else. It's probably just about blocking these changes and those processes that are going on in the ministry today, which I'm managing, that you want to block. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, there have been times when you said you wanted to... [[It's not gonna get any worse.]] ...block the merger of Orlen, Lotus and PGNiG. [[Voice from the room: Privatizations...]] Because you do not want the creation of a big Polish energy company, which will be able to compete effectively in European markets not only in Poland, but in markets... [[Voice from the hall: You want to sell the stations.]] [[Voice from the hall: Lotus Infrastructure you want to sell to the Russians.]] ...Europeans will be able to compete effectively with foreign entities. You're saying the Russians are Lotus. [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes...]] I'll remind you who you were trying to sell Lotus to. [[Voice from the hall: Just like you sold the shipyards.]] You wanted to sell Lotus to the Russians, you let the Russians into the Azots, you wanted to sell LOT. You? I'll tell you who you are, Mr Nitras. [[I know who I am.]] Donald Tusk. Donald Tusk in 2013: It is high time to break with the doctrine that LOT is a company to be rescued at all costs... [[Voice from the room: Yes, it was.]] ... regardless of the reality, just because it's called LOT and has a beautiful tradition. And you have not changed this policy, you still want to sell out Polish national assets. [[He's delirious.]] Why do I think that? Yeah, quite recently, Jacek Rostowski. I don't think you're gonna cut it off. [[But it went 400 million? Did it go?]] ...from this gentleman, he's the deputy prime minister in your government. [[Voice from the O.R.: You'll be cut off by the PiS after this term, you'll see.]] A month ago in an interview for the portal you know what he said: I think that if the PiS falls, you will have to learn from what happened in the Treasury companies and privatize them. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it's going too well for these companies of the Treasury. It really hurts you that the companies... [[Voice from the room: That's the point.]] ... The Treasury is doing well that their value is growing, so... [[Voice from the hall: Shame on you!]] ...you have to sell them for small money, preferably foreign entities, so that there is nothing left in Poland, which will be Polish property. [[A voice from the hall: So that Prime Minister Morawiecki can make money like in Santander.]] As you have sold, your colleague, Prime Minister Jerzy Buzek, at some point, I don't think you'll deny that he's your party friend... [[Kaczyński was his minister.]] ...sold PKO SA to an Italian investor just to get another friend of yours... [[Voice from the room: Lord.]] ... Jan Krzysztof Bielecki could be the president of this bank, he could certainly make big money, but not have much influence because the strings were pulled by a foreign owner. You only sold it so that we would have to buy it back to ensure Poland's security in the banking sector as well. [[Voice from the room: So that Ziobro has work to do there.]] Yeah, we had to overpay 'cause you sold that bank out of value. You've actually sold your assets below value, and you want to keep doing it. And since our government, the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki... [[Voice from the room: What about Ostrołęka?]] ...and I, as Minister of State Assets, will not sell out Polish national assets... [[The bell, the applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...that's why you want to call me off, and you're so angry at me. The attack you launched on me, the attack that was... [[Like a Gomulka.]] ...a lot of lies, half-truths, misrepresentations. I think that after Mr Tomczyk's speech, there will be a new term for "tomaching," that is, passing the truth, giving false facts, mixing fiction with reality. [[Voice from the room: A brilliant speech, by the way.]] [[Voice from the hall: Morawiecki has the score for this.]] [[It's true.]] Yes, indeed, this attack by the state against me is because you know that today the companies of the Treasury are managed well, today the Polish national estate is in good hands, will not be sold out, and Poles may feel safe and can live today in the belief that our common good will not be stolen and will serve all Poles. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Some Members stand up, long-term applause]] [[Give me the money.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u409	Thank you very much. You will now speak to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. [[There's no CEO.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u410	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I think Mr Tomczyk's proposal is indeed incomplete. It is incomplete because Mr Sasin's accusation of failure with Slovakia is still lacking, and as far as criminal punishment is concerned for Spain, I believe that Prime Minister Sasin is also guilty. Maybe tonight's game would have been added if you had written this proposal late enough. [[Voice from the room: And you.]] [[Voice from the hall: Tusk's Wines.]] But that's how I want to express my deep disgust with that steak of lies, half-truths, fakes and nonsense that got there. There are also a lot of contradictions there, because on the one hand you resent Prime Minister Sasin overseeing the Ministry of State Acts for the fact that it is too slow to transform mining and will take too long to reach climate neutrality, in order to express, in the same course, its great concern about the transformation of mining and what is happening with Polish mining. Well, ladies and gentlemen, as I said in my previous speech, we are transforming mining into social harmony, we are trying to do so in social harmony. And ask the miners what your mining policy was when you fired, your government of the Civic Platform... [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] ...from smooth-bore weapons to miners in Hawk and Zabrze. [[Voice from the hall: You children break hands.]] [[Voice from the hall: And you to the women...]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, if we look at the management of companies of the State Treasury, it has been since the appointment of the Ministry of State Assets, i.e. since Mr Sasin has been responsible for them, the value of the companies of the State Treasury has increased, despite the pandemic, by PLN 20 billion, including the participation of the State Treasury by about PLN 10 billion. This is a measure of the effectiveness of the management of state assets. [[Applause]] But also in this difficult COVID year, I would like to recall a number that is very important and has greatly helped to depreciate economic growth or one of the lowest recessions we have had in the European Union. Because companies of the Treasury invested PLN 46 billion in various kinds of investment projects, while reducing... [[Voice from the room: Polska Press.]] ...deficit in trade in chemistry, petrochemical products and improving trade balance and current account balance. And these two parameters at the same time show that to a lesser extent we are in debt to foreign countries, we are less dependent on foreign countries. The Treasury companies under Prime Minister Sasin also contributed to this. For this asset management, I would like to thank the Prime Minister very warmly. [[Applause]] But I will now move on to the main element of the proposal that Mr Tomczyk has formulated. Indeed, it is worth explaining from A to Z, while recalling the relevant articles of the Constitution, which was the problem at the time. Ladies and gentlemen! Art. 127 of the Constitution makes it clear that the President's term of office lasts five years and that Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. I'm guessing two constitutions are saying that elections have to take place... [[Voice from the room: Art. 7.]] ...not earlier than 100 days before the end of the President's term of office and not later than 75 days before the end of the President's term of office. [[Mr. Lenz, you're gonna ask me to undo your punishment later, aren't you?]] What does that mean? This means that since President Andrzej Duda's term of office ended on August 6, let's count down those 100 days and 75 days and there were only three possible dates for these elections at the time. On 3 May, for obvious reasons, your marshal did not decide to announce this date, 10 May and 17 May. The date was chosen in the middle, and at the same time the date, which happened to be exactly the same date on which the president was elected 5 years earlier. So, High Izbo, dear fellow countrymen, it is worth noting that we have pursued the constitution according to our best knowledge and in our best faith. And the orders that, following my order, Prime Minister Sasin, Minister Kaminski passed on to the relevant entities that were to carry out the technical website, namely, the production of envelopes and the production of electoral cards, were the right move to implement the Constitution. And if the proposal states that this might lead to chaos, then remember, ladies and gentlemen, some choices that should cause great shame to the state. Because there were no such elections in the times of the Third Republic, where 2.5 million votes were invalid - 2.5 A million votes have been wasted! It was in your time that you organized local elections in 2014 - without COVID-19 - in such a way that... [[Yes, sir. Scandal!]] ...2.5 million votes were wasted. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] Yes, it was, you could say, from the organizational side actually shameful elections. We tried to organize the elections as best we could and prepared them from the technical side, and you did everything you could to ensure that they did not take place in constitutional terms. So who defended the Constitution, us or you? [[Voice from the room: Marshal Kidawa-Błońska.]] [[Voice from the room: We.]] We, of course, stood, ladies and gentlemen, on the side of the Constitution and also Prime Minister Sasin, in doing what was right then, on the side of the Constitution. [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: What about the court?]] And that needs to be emphasized all the time. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for this, that it was when the world stood that he was paralyzed by COVID-19, when we knew that in other countries correspondence elections could take place through mail, that we decided to do so. And the obstruction of local governments, mostly yours, has led to the fact that these elections... [[And the Senate.]] ...they couldn't have happened... [[That's not what the court said.]] ...then you were bragging about it and why it was also expressed by the then presidential candidate, Marshal Kidawa-Błońska. That's the truth about the election last year. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, let me say that... [[Voice from the room: Prime Minister, who has a sentence for lying.]] ...it is very interesting, on the basis of which this proposal was formulated by the Civic Platform... [[Voice from the room: Facts.]] .... Well, it's been said a lot lately that you have a leadership crisis, but I didn't think you'd call Mr. Marian Banasi for help. But I understand that this is the result of the same policy of yours... [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Not Banasia, but NIK.]] ...to do everything against the Law and Justice. If Beelzebub came against us, you'd be... [[A voice from the room: The Supreme Chamber of Control is not Banas.]] ...he was greeted like a brother, I'm sure. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear to us that from the point of view of both the management of state property... [[You said "Crystal Banana."]] ...and the management of the entire election process more than a year ago, Prime Minister Sasin deserves the recognition and trust we have in him. Earlier, one of our fellow Members had criticized our footballers. I wanted to thank them for this very hard fight. It didn't work out in the end, but I thank them so much for it. However, they urged me to conclude by asking: How is it different, ladies and gentlemen, a team of good from a weak team? Well, the weak one doesn't have a programming concept, if there's no idea, it fouls first of all. Stop fouling, start... [[Voice from the room: It's what you do all the time.]] ...to have a real policy. Thank you. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Mr. Marshal, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u411	Thank you, Prime Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards the Minister - member of the Council of Ministers, Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister - Michał Dworczyk (prints no. 1263 and 1280). I ask Mr Sławomir Nitras to provide a justification for the proposal. [[Girls, watch your purses, Nitras...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u412	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Minister Dworczyk! I don't know if the Minister is. You're the minister. I quote, Minister, a few sentences to you: Minister - Member of the Council of Ministers, Head of the Office of the Prime Minister Michał Dworczyk acting to the detriment of fundamental rights and freedoms, principles... [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] ...a democratic rule of law and - be serious, these are serious things - crossing... [[Voice from the hall: Ha ha ha!]] ...your powers... [[Voice from the room: Watch out for the purses.]] ...the President of the Republic of Poland took action to organise the elections of the President of the Republic of Poland on 10 May 2020 using correspondence votes. The sum of the actions undertaken by Minister Dworczyk led to absolute electoral, constitutional and democratic chaos in Poland. This is also for you, Prime Minister, who talks so easily about these elections, because you have no competence to hold Presidential elections in Poland. [[Applause]] You go out and you say, "Well, like, I took this car and I went, 'cause you had to take the kids on vacation." But it's not your car! It's not your car, sir. [[Applause]] Not even your wife. [[Voice from the room: Against the current.]] [[That car you drove up against the current?]] [[Voice from the hall: Upside-down on the highway.]] I go back to the quote: "The conduct of Minister Dworczyk, in particular by presenting the Prime Minister with deep legal shortcomings in the organisation of these elections, indicates that he is acting solely on a particular political interest, as well as a lack of knowledge, experience and respect for the letter of law.' Minister! We had a chance to talk then, in those hot days at the Prime Minister's firm. We told you that someday there will be consequences, that your actions are unlawful. No matter what the Members and Members are shouting here, there will be a day when you will have to take responsibility. And this day is the beginning, because these questions will have to be answered by an independent prosecutor, possibly before the Court of State. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear.]] Because it's an assassination. for free elections. This is a constitutional assassination. This is a coup d'état. [[Applause]] And it's not as if Mr. Morawiecki wanted to say that those are the words of some Mr. Banasi. No, these are the words that the auditors of the Supreme Audit Office say, the people who have worked there for years, the people of whom many worked with President Lech Kaczyński when he was president of the Supreme Auditorium. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I remember once President Lech Kaczyński, President of the President, left this room. He was insulted by Members when he presented - the Prime Minister certainly remembers - the report of the NIK. The President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, the Constitutional Institution, writes such words. Minister, I do not believe that this does not impress you, and it is not only because you feel responsible for these words, but also because they concern you personally. This really is the beginning of the settlement. Let me remind you of something. Prime Minister, I remind you. The elections in Poland are conducted by an independent State Election Commission. [[Applause]] And they can't be done by the prime minister, the deputy prime minister, even if the president tells him to. He just can't. We weren't defending a candidate at the time. We didn't act against Duda, President Duda. We were defending free elections. What were you doing? You were afraid you'd lose the election. You were afraid the pandemic was gonna change the social mood and you're gonna lose the election. [[Your candidate...]] Minister Dworczyk! No matter what Mrs Paluch says here, you have only been involved in the process so that your political formation has a better chance of voting. [[Applause]] We all know, Mr. President, that you made the decisions. You have the courage to admit it. And you will also have constitutional responsibility for this. But there was a recollection. Where did it come from? It came from your coalition. It came from Prime Minister Gowin. This is Prime Minister Gowin, with our support, of course... This must be said honestly, if it had not been for Gowin and his parliamentarians, there would have been illegal elections made by Prime Minister Morawiecki in Poland instead of by the State Election Commission. And he needs to be respected. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: And that would be fun.]] And I'll tell you, Minister Dworczyk, you should thank Gowin. If it wasn't for Gowin, you'd be responsible for the illegal election, not just for the rehearsal. Poland would meet with the elections carried out like Lukashenka, and not just with the trial. Gowin needs to be thanked. You have to thank him. In fact, you have to say It's honest in this room. We may be different, but in this situation he behaved as he should. We'll probably get more details in the future, because we can't get to know them today. We talked about this at the committee meeting. The Minister wasn't here. Notes, famous notes that have been prepared by the Attorney General and the Legal Office - Prime Minister - this is actually a proposal in your case - the Office of the Council of Ministers. What did you do with those notes? What did it say? Prime Minister, that's where your right-wing Attorney General and your Prime Minister's attorneys wrote that you have no right to assume that you have no right to take such action, not even the one you have not yet been able to praise. You've classified those documents. You've classified them, but they'll be declassified someday. You have a choice: either you decrypt it or decrypt it on the Internet and we'll read it from your e-mails. [[Applause]] This is your real choice. I'll mention it because, you know, it's a lack of decency. Prime Minister, I know it's $200,000 for you. It's nothing. You gave 100 million dollars to your friends. [[Voice from the gym: Stop being clownish.]] 200,000. spend on legal opinions just to have a pad after the fact... You know, 200,000. zł This is a three-year salary of parliamentarians in Poland. You spent it just to have a pad. That's bad for you, too. Look, ladies and gentlemen, we are unfortunately learning this, I am sorry, about what is happening in Poland, Minister Dworczyk, from leaks, from e-mails. Note the Orlen issue mentioned here today in Mr Sasin's case. Listen up. How can one hide from the public that for 2 months the largest refinery in Poland does not produce oil that we do not have oil? How do you hide it from the public? Marshal Zgorzelski asked in the Seym. You didn't answer. You hid the fact. We found out about this from e-mails, and you say, "You can't read e-mails." But that Orlen wasn't there? There was this Orlen guy. It happened. And just because you're gonna say we're not gonna read e-mails doesn't mean we're gonna turn a blind eye on that. It's the truth. Have you created a country where we need to find out what's going on in this country? If it was a well in Warsaw after a storm, TVP Info would talk about it for 6 weeks, but since it was the largest refinery in Poland and Poland was deprived of oil, who cares, we need to learn it from emails. [[Applause]] Why should we believe you about this? Today you come here and you say we have to believe you because it's Russian provocation. But you do exactly the same provocations for us. Exactly the same. You listen to us, you follow us. [[Voices from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Any concerns, sir? Fears, visions.]] Don't laugh, because you don't know if they're following you anymore. If you're PiS and they're not following you, that means you've never broken the club's discipline. If you've broken the club's discipline, they're following you. [[Applause]] Minister Dworczyk! In my opinion, you still have a little more seriousness than the ones in the first rows, and the ones with gray hair, and the ones with ondulation. [[Mr...]] [[Voices from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Stop it. Spare me the shame.]] But I'll tell you what. Since you're applying these methods to us... You remember this publication. To politicians or lawyers, remember - hello, listen - in Poland there are special services of Kaminski and they accuse him of something. They put these people in court, the court dismisses them, and in two days, TVP Info shows their private correspondence. These are facts in Poland. After 2 days of detention - where the court refused arrest - information is provided on TVP Info. These are Russian methods. [[Applause]] Since you're using Russian methods to us... After all, we know what kind of relationship there is in the coalition. We know what you're doing with Gowin, Mr Kaczyński. [[Good cabaret.]] We know, Mr. Morawiecki, that you wanted to cancel Mr. Kaminski's inability. We were rooting for you. We know. We know what you were doing with Mr Maximovich... [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: What?]] ...what despicable methods you've been using. We know what Mrs PiS said when she left Mr Terletki's office after she voted badly. She said her family would pay for it. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Who is listening to whom?]] These are your methods. If you're using these methods, then why should we believe you're telling the truth? Why should I believe, Prime Minister, that after what you wanted... Why should I not think that after you wanted to cancel Kaminski - I was rooting for you then - he didn't provoke against you, against your surroundings, he didn't hit Dworczyk to weaken you, just like he threw out Mr Jagiello, who was your right hand when it came to the economy? [[Voice from the hall: Do not measure others with your measure.]] Why should we think it's an impossible scenario if you guys do it every day? You lay your hands on yourselves, you use the Secret Service, and when you're in a giant crisis, you say, "The Russians are beating us." This is ridiculous, Prime Minister. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Why did you enter, forced Mr. Dworczyk to write private e-mails? Because you were afraid of the service. Because you were afraid that the Kaminski who provoked Lepper might do it against you. Because if you lose... Do you remember what Mr Kaczyński said? As long as I support him, he'll rule. What would happen if he stopped supporting you and tried to knock you down with these methods? This is the kind of country you've created. [[Applause]] This is the kind of country you've created, and this is the kind of country you die from today. [[You heard the Owl tapes.]] It'll be about Owl's tapes in a minute. Calm down. [[Joy in the Chamber]] You're talking about Russian provocations. Speaking of which, do you remember those tapes at Owl's? [[Yeah, what your ministers said.]] You remember. It's clearly written cyrillic. After all, Falenta, this Falenta... Mr Sasin praises Polish companies today. Did you know that Polish ports have the biggest turnover on Russian coal? But once Polish ports were exporting Polish coal, and today they are importing Russians. After all, Falenta worked for the Russians, we all know that, he's been convicted, and you're calling here today for Falenta and the Owl. You know, the last time... It was a Russian provocation. [[Voice from the room: Yes?]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, seriously?]] Do you know when was the last time you played Owl tapes? 20 July 2020, 6 years after... If you had any problems, the Owl tapes always appeared on TVP Info. And you know what? Look at these benches. Everyone, as far as Owl's tapes are concerned, has been punished. Everyone, except one who became Prime Minister. [[Applause]] [[A bowl of rice.]] Prime Minister! A bowl of rice - remember that quote? A bowl of rice. And you remember Kubica, and how glad you were that he broke two hands? [[Aren't you explaining the Court's appeal?]] It didn't cost us a bowl of rice, your words cost all of us 50 million dollars, because that's what you had to pay for so that Kubica wouldn't blame you and it wouldn't be a big deal. [[Applause]] These are facts, gentlemen! Do you remember how you did the job for Mr Black's son? Remember? It's all Owl. And you know, he's applying for the position of head of the Polish Football Association today, and they say Mr. Boy is handling it. The one that's on your e-mails. It was a Russian provocation, and you're still playing it today. And expect loyalty from us. [[Voice from the room: Understanding.]] We don't know if it's Russian provocation or not. I don't know. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: It is Chinese, not Russian.]] I'm talking to Minister Dworczyk. Quiet, please. Minister! I don't know if it's Russian provocation. I'm not prejudicing whether or not this is your concern and sharing the codes with your co-workers. I don't know if it's Kaminski's provocation, although I admit it, that's the theory I'm leaning on. I know one thing: you revealed the name of a Polish agent. The gentleman in the private mail wrote about military tenders, about the sale of weapons. Anything else, you know it, and we'll probably find out. I do not prejudice, but see how you proceed: the motion for a vote of distrust towards Tusk, 6 years Kaczyński rejoices because he played the Owl for 6 years. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Kaczyński.]] [[Voice from the room: Prime Minister.]] He played Owl for six years, and today he says the Russians are attacking him. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I can't hear what you're saying because you can't hear very well under your mask. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: To learn culture.]] Now let's talk about Russian agents - one last thing. [[But we don't talk, it's an appearance in the Seym.]] You know what, Russian agent influences Polish elections since 2015. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Then trolls appeared in Poland. They always have a white and red flag, they support the PiS, they love Kaczyński, they love Duda, they are Polish patriots, they hate minorities, they challenge aliens, they sow hatred, they say that LGBT is the biggest Polish problem. [[Voice from the room: Wake up.]] They say only under that flag... And they squeal, they squeal, they squeal. The problem is... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You brought them in, they're the reason you're winning the election. The problem is, you took over their language. [[Room voice: 3, 2, 1...]] How do you listen to Sasin, the Black, the Dudy... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room:...stop!]] ... Terletsky... [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]] Thank you very much. ...this is the language... Why don't you let me finish my sentence? Finish your sentence. How do you listen to your language... This is the language of Russian propaganda. You are sowing Russian propaganda in Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u413	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Piotr Kaleta to present the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u414	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! On 21 June at midday, the Committee on Home Affairs and Administration met, which considered the hopelessly prepared proposal presented by the hopelessly prepared Member Sławomir Nitras. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: This is the rapporteur?]] It's a kind of déjà vu, because it's a speech that just happened, and it kind of confirms the belief that... The High House can imagine the proceedings of the Parliament's Committee on Home Affairs and Administration. By the way, by the way, because here... [[Mr Marczulajtis-Walczak: Report, not margins, Mr.]] Ma'am, I would like a moment of peace, because I would like to speak for the entire High House, because here, there are cultural messengers, decent Members, cultural Members, but there is also Sławomir Nitras, Boris Budka, Mr Tomczyk or Mr Szłapka. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say, as I have already suggested, that this proposal is fundamentally hopeless. It was hard to discuss. [[Voice from the room: To shore.]] The high committee, as it is said colloquially, crushed him because there was no substance in it. [[Just like in a secret meeting.]] There were insults, there were invectives and other words that are not acceptable to quote here. So... [[Voice from the hall: Stop talking nonsense.]] I ask you very much for even a little culture, although I do not expect much from you. Ladies and gentlemen, I know you could talk here for a long time. I'm gonna go back to a creature. There were many words, comparisons, references to names. A Member spoke to us at the time, who also has such qualities. I don't know if you're remembering the 2016 knock time. That's what it's all about: someone's gonna nitrate around the room or be careful, because somebody's gonna nitrate something. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, please don't prolong... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Sit down.]] The discussions in both plenary and then, at the meeting of the High Committee, were embarrassing, but the democratic majority within the committee behaved decently and by 18 votes to 14 blew up this idiotic motion to dismiss Minister Dworczyk in the air. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u415	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Łukasz Schreiber will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u416	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! It would be worth asking at first what this proposal is really about. If someone were listening to a debate, whether here, in the plenary room or at a committee meeting, and they didn't know it, I think he would have serious doubts about pointing out the essence of the thing, because in fact this proposal is about the frustration of the biggest opposition party - the Civic Platform. High Izbo! We've heard a lot of sentences that have nothing to do with... I even printed it, although it's not worth the paper it was written on. [[And the ballots?]] High Izbo! What is the real charge of Minister Michał Dworczyk? Isn't it because he did everything, like the government, to preserve the continuity of power? Isn't it because he didn't embezzle his oath to the constitution he made and as a Member and as a Minister? We're talking about art here. 127, and Art. 128 constitutions. Isn't it that... Because here's the charge of a coup d'état. High Izbo, this is an attempt to reverse all concepts. I do not want to remind you of that time, but I want to say one thing clearly and clearly: if it were not for actions taken by people such as the then and present head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, Mr Michał Dworczyk, we would have had a permanent constitutional crisis in addition to the crisis that struck the health and life of Poles, alongside the economic crisis. For a year there would be a discussion about when to organize elections. To this we managed not to achieve this scenario, which you wrote, we managed to prevent. It's also forgotten here, High Izbo, about the legal basis. This is not mentioned by the applicant, it is not in the application itself, it is forgotten even in the report of the Supreme Auditorium. [[There was no reason for that.]] It's about art. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 in conjunction with Article. 2 and 2a so-called The COVID law, on the basis of which the President of the Council of Ministers took decisions, but no one in this Chamber, is interested in discussing the legal aspects of this decision, nobody was interested in it at the committee meeting. High Izbo! Or is this attack on Minister Michał Dworczyk connected with the fact that he has taken on one of the most difficult cases in recent months... [[Sending e-mails.]] ...work on the vaccination program? Yes, High Izbo, this is also worth remembering when this application is being submitted today. But I was talking about the state of frustration, and that's what I came out of. High Izbo, you have to understand this somehow. This proposal, of course, concerns choices that you would rather forget, and it's not about you losing them. That's what happens in democracy, that's what happens in sports. Today the Poles lost, but they fought to the end. It's not about the election campaign. It's what you tried to do to avoid these choices. At the time, I told the speaker that you had a choice of disgrace or defeat. You chose shame, and the defeat came to you. Today you're trying to get it out of your head. Again, it is hardly surprising, because if you consider the difference in results between your magical dream team, President Schetin, President Kopacz and President Budka and the team of the President, Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński, this is 7:0. Well, there's a pretty big difference. High Izbo! When considering the way in which candidates are assessed as prime minister, e.g. Today's poll is the result of the confrontation of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki with Mr Budka, which is 27:0. I understand this frustration, she's even so humanly clear. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[27:1, you made a mistake.]] It's just not clear what you're trying to say. All you called for was a motion from the Supreme Board of Control. This is the audit of the Supreme Audit Chamber of 31 December 2020. [[Your Marshal, you have interrupted each of our fellow Members. I ask the same for Mr Schreiber.]] The conclusions can be read: In view of the fact that the activities under scrutiny relate to an extraordinary situation which has little chance of repeating itself, the Supreme Audit Chamber deviates from the formulation of post-control findings on irregularities. [[Voice from the room: Time!]] What changed between the end of the year and a few months later is a really interesting question. [[You're a Marshal of the Seym. May I have your intervention, please?]] This conclusion is unfounded. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote against him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u417	Thank you very much, thank you very much. There you go, Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u418	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! You sent Poland e-mails to private mailboxes, but the Polish state is too serious to be played by by Minister Dworczyk with his colleagues. Today we do not know if there have been any attacks, which is your propaganda, and what is actually a threat. You have weakened Poles' trust in each other, in power, in the state so much that you cannot be believed when you talk about security. If it is true that the Minister of the Polish Government, the man responsible for key projects in public administration, the politician holding the security certificate so nonchalantly treats his passwords of access to the box, then we are dealing with the ruins of the seriousness of this country. How come you haven't even been questioned about this? That you weren't removed from your security clearance? And finally, how do you know the details of the department's handling this case? Who's giving you the information? [[Applause]] And if on this private box you discussed the most important matters for the Polish state, took the CV of the most important officials, if that's true, then it must be said clearly that you won the competition for the biggest kid in the camp of this power. [[Applause]] I must apologize to all Polish children who learn in computer science lessons about security online. Maybe it's worth calling a computer teacher, maybe even a fifth-grade teacher, for your primary school advisor - consider it. [[Applause]] But this nonchalance is part of your entire operation. Her apogee is actually an envelope election that has already been mentioned. Because you are the one who is co-responsible for throwing over PLN 100 million of Polish taxpayers' money into the mud. You admit openly that you knew the critical reports, and you decided to keep looking until some power-enhancing expert slaps you with these choices. I'm sure you were convinced that in a pandemic age, no one would account for your scheming, because when frightened people attacked an unknown virus, you felt the climate for scheming. Some were looking for an easy paycheck, like a ventilator, and others, like you, focused on how to make choices so that there was no risk of losing. And that's the truth. You say I don't wish to be in a situation like that. You're not gonna get any sympathy here. It is important to be clear - in the context of the state crisis in which he is, among other things, involved. You, as a senior official, should be more responsible and decent. Pandemic doesn't slow down from honesty, a pandemic of this honesty requires. Remember what happened as a result of your actions - millions went into the mud, election cards with white, Polish eagle were on the streets, Poles abroad received election packages even a month after the deadline. And now you're convinced that these scandals will get away with it - they won't get away with it. And I'll tell you why. Wojciech Młynarski once wrote about people like you, although he didn't know that it would be you who would happen to our Poland, the ballad about those who probably felt that they would be: You know what? I wish Poland the least such lousy jokes in a high position. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u419	Thank you. There you go, Mrs Karolina Pavlichak, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u420	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Economy like Sasin, reliable as Kaminski, reliable as Dworczyk - These are the three kings of the incompetence of this government, who have turned the election of the President of the Republic of Poland into party songs. And over the whole honorary patronage was discussed by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, [[Applause]] He's as truthful as ever. You may ignore this, ladies and gentlemen of the Law and Justice, but this is a very serious matter, because there are also very serious charges against the three constitutional ministers of the PiS. We are dealing with an unprecedented situation. Today we are debating not the cancellation of some minister who does not like the opposition. We are talking about three ministers, who were specifically accused by the Supreme Audit Chamber: exceeding powers, acting without a legal basis, committing an official crime, putting the State Treasury at risk. The same Supreme Audit Office also sent appropriate requests to the prosecution. It can't be any more serious than that. If we add the Prime Minister Morawiecki to this list, we are dealing with an organized group - which, already do so - whose actions put the State Treasury at risk of losses of over PLN 70 million. If a group of people with no legitimacy of law and justice were to commit such a crime, I am sure that they will be here at noon. At 6 a.m., the police, the servants and the prosecutor's office with Minister Ziobro himself at the head of their door would have knocked on their door, and so would the TVP cameras. [[Applause]] The NIK report is devastating for you. The entire procedure for organising the envelope elections was in violation of all constitutional principles, and people involved in this organisation have repeatedly violated the law. And don't hide behind any special circumstances. Everyone told you that organizing an envelope election is crazy and has no right to go. You're the only ones who didn't listen. [[The candidate had to be changed.]] ... arrogant, arrogant and self-righteous. And it came out the way it always was. But I've got some bad news for the PiS government. Poland is not the private farm of the Prime Minister, and election decisions cannot be decided because the President ordered it. Speaking of presidents, let me quote this: We win and win, but under two conditions. The first is that we will keep our commitments and the second is that our governments will be the opposite of the rule of law. These pronunciational and symbolic words were delivered by President Kaczyński at the 2016 PiS Congress. It's been a while, and the PiS are still consistently draining you according to the principle: we're protecting our own. [[Applause]] Minister Dworczyk is also eagerly using this, who started his explosive career quite early, because in the 1990s he had already kept an arsenal of weapons in a multi-family building in his cellars. He was convicted of illegal possession. [[Applause]] for a year and a half in prison, and with the help of no one else arrived, and Antoni Macierewicz. And today Minister Dworczyk is showing him his undying gratitude. Today we also know that the competences of Minister Dworczyk are facades, PR dubushka, financed, among others. of the billions flowing to TVP propaganda, because it is Michał Dworczyk who is personally responsible for failed envelope elections and looting tens of millions of zlotys from public money. This is stealing in white gloves, which should be punished instantly. The Left, seeing your infirmity, has already applied for a committee of inquiry on envelope elections. If you have nothing to accuse yourselves of, support this committee's uprising, exonerate yourselves, show me what your true intentions were. But you can't do that, because the PiS and their officers are unpunished and Minister Dworczyk won't admit anything either... [[Voice from the room: What's he supposed to confess to?]] ...because every liar will swear it's not his word, every thief will say it wasn't him who stole it, and every loser will say it's not his fault, it's decided a higher necessity. [[Voice from the hall: Propaganda that head small.]] I know, and I'm sure that your impunity and insolence (the bell) will someday be over. If not today, then I assure you that there will be such a time of reckoning from every decision you make, from every illegal gold spent, from every illegal act. The Left supports the motion for a vote of distrust against Minister Michał Dworczyk and we believe that this is an introduction to the Court of State. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u421	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u422	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I come to speak on the issue of mistrust for the third hero of tragic history under the working title: envelope elections. It's kind of our Olsen gang, except, unlike the heroes of the Danish movie, a little funny, a little funny, these native heroes aren't funny or funny. After reading the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber We have to say that they are dangerous, because according to the Supreme Auditorium's auditors they have broken the law, but they laugh at this authority and Poles in the face. Minister, I would like to remind you of what you said in January 2019 during one of the interviews, precisely in the Polish Republic. I'm quoting. Minister Dworczyk: Today in Poland everyone is equal to the law and there is no reduction rate. If someone breaks the law, they have to face the consequences. That's what you said. Except tonight these words, to analyze your actions recently, sound like a joke. Are you today imagining, Minister, that any official, even the lowest level, at any municipal office, of the district old age will take action in connection with the tender and make a mistake or issue an administrative decision in breach of the law, will he be able to joke about it today? No, that clerk's not gonna sit in his office another week. Do you, Minister, imagine that any official in any institution in Poland will use a private box in spite of the procedures in force and will freely use this box to send, copy and use it for business purposes? It won't heat the place up for a week or a month longer. In your case, nothing happens contrary to what you assured the public two years ago. Very often, Minister, you refer to symbolism, the idea of scouting, values and symbols associated with the Polish army. Both in Boy Scouting and in the Polish Army for many years in this beautiful multigenerational ethos there is a word: honour. I think it is worth it today, Minister, to reach out effectively to those values that are close to you, and perhaps to draw lessons from this, not necessarily waiting for what decision this House will make on your behalf. Regarding the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, we see no reason to defend Minister Michał Dworczyk from appeal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u423	Thank you. Here you go, Mr Michał Urbaniak, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u424	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! We're considering a motion for a vote of distrust towards you, Minister. It was mainly justified by how you behaved in the envelope elections, which actually never took place, and on which you spent tens of millions of PLN - the money of Poles. The NIK report proves that you are responsible for how this farce ended with the Prime Minister. You have spent, gentlemen, public money without a legal basis, not even having social support or moral legitimacy. We know that the only body that can organise elections in Poland is the State Election Commission. After such a bluff, both you and the Prime Minister and Minister Sasin should resign, but that did not happen. It's okay. The recent events confirmed total immatureness, lack of elementary knowledge, professionalism, because during the execution of tasks by Minister Dworczyk there was a scandal related to the leak of e-mail information which was in his private box, and it was important information. The person responsible and certified to have access to classified files of the highest degree of secrecy is explained in a childish way that it was a cyber attack and that others are behind it. Perhaps, only if reports show that it was fishing, then there must have been some activity on your part too, some response to what was sent to you. Then I don't know what you were clicking on. Maybe in the information about winning the vaccine you organized, maybe something else, but it turns out it's not real, it's hard to say. Personally, I even feel sorry for you, really, but it's not about privacy here, it's about you putting sensitive data in a private e-mail box, and you should be aware that you should remove yourself honorably after something like this, because you have compromised the security of Poland. It is important to ask what consequences this may have in the future for Poland and its security. The bomb squad's only wrong once, you've made a lot of mistakes, and this one may have been bombarded. Do you have any idea what it would look like in other services, e.g. What if a policeman did something like you? Disciplinary action, probably along with expulsion from the service or criminal proceedings, would be guaranteed. In the case of the minister, the case should be much more serious, as I mentioned: resignation or proceedings in the prosecutor's office. It should be necessary here, not as evasive as it is today. And I'm addressing you, Prime Minister. You're here defending the fire of your employees. I understand that because you know you'll probably be next. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u425	Thank you. You continue with Mr Krzysztof Bosak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u426	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, Members of the Council of Ministers. The Confederation will support the motion to dismiss Minister Dworczyk. We believe that the practices that you have done in the government go beyond our borders and our system and our law-abiding behaviour, not what we expect from the government. I think it's obvious, I'm not gonna justify it because all the arguments have already come out. However, I will allow myself to use this minute to tell you what we expect if you are not cancelled. We expect serious consideration of the situation that occurred with the data leak. We expect you to at least try to convince us as opposition parties that you have any idea of managing the communication of the entire political class in a safe way. We expect the state's security authorities to contact us not to send us a flyer or give us a telephone number to an unoriented official, but to arrange some professional training. We expect you to show a little commitment, and you're not just trying to massage the media issue, what you're doing right now, wait it out and see who's head falls off. [[Applause]] We expect, sitting in government benches and in parliamentary benches, PiS politicians, that you will not only look at each other, at who will benefit from it, and who will lose, who will strengthen you, but will show you a little state spirit that we do not see in you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You didn't even try to convince us that he's still here. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u427	Thank you. Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u428	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! The organisation of the elections by the Polish Post without the participation of the State Election Commission was a clear violation of the law and a breach of powers. Art. 233 has been very well, Minister, described here. And the fact that you are trying to cover the entire debate today with an extremely important match of the Polish team and torment us with the length of its duration shows how afraid you are of what is written here. [[Applause]] The organisation of the envelope elections was the public's exposure to loss of health and life, and this, attention, for the sake of party interest. She was also an attempt to break the constitutional rules saying that the elections for the President of the Republic of Poland are universal, equal and direct and take place in secret voting. The worst part is, you haven't learned anything from it. And that is not why the envelope elections did not take place, but because you did not have a majority in this House to push through the procedure and lead to their organisation. As part of the fight against misinformation, but not Russian intelligence, only the Polish government, I expect, Minister, to reveal to citizens all materials concerning the organisation of envelope elections, including opinions in your drawer. It's time for citizens to get to know them. Prime Minister! One note for you, too. There's such a thing as a natural disaster in the Constitution. All you had to do was introduce it, not repeat that message of the day and a broken record about the continuity of power. After six years of your rule, I don't believe you. Today you're scaring us that Russia's intelligence has our e-mails, but I'm not sure it's Russian intelligence. Since the beginning of the cyber attacks, the email scandal has been politically played by you. Instead of taking care of the safety of Poles, Poles and the Polish state, you take care of your own PR. But this is not about your image, it is about the security of the Republic of Poland. It is also about whether - and why - Mr Dworczyk has broken the article again. 231 Penal Code, not fulfilling its responsibilities. This is your second sin, Minister. Yes, non-compliance with professional practices is also a violation of Article. 231 Criminal Code. For a few days now, we've been trying to determine what standards are in place in the KPRM for cybersecurity, but you've also hidden this under the rug as part of your own misinformation. After all, it is not about whether a Member or Minister uses a private box, but whether secret information, covered by the obligation to encrypt, is important from the point of view of the security of the Polish state on this box. Minister Dworczyk, for many months you risked the interests of the Republic of Poland and threatened the sovereignty of the Polish state. You're boasting great results on the national vaccination program. The number of citizens vaccinated with at least one dose shall not exceed 40% population. It's almost twice not enough to protect us, attention, from the fourth fall wave of pandemics. [[Voice from the room: Vaccinations are voluntary.]] [[Voice from the room: Your body, your choice.]] The third sin of Minister Dworczyk. Focused on maintaining power and self-image, you cannot convince Poles to want to inoculate themselves. [[Voice from the room: Nose mask.]] In the UK, 10,000 people come every day. sick, but not many people die: 25 people a day. In Poland we have only 165 new cases. And how many are dying? Forty, 60, even one day. If in the autumn we relive the nightmare that we know from the third wave of pandemics, and observe ambulances in hospital driveways, you will be personally responsible for every death, for every unnecessary loss of life. [[Voice from the room: Vaccinations are voluntary.]] Circle of Poland 2050 (The bell) will support the request for your appeal, Minister, because you are facing really serious charges today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u429	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Minister - a member of the Council of Ministers, the Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister of Mr Michał Dworczyk. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u430	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to start by referring to one information, absolutely untrue, which appeared here, died several times. I would like to stress very clearly that there are no secret documents, as you said from this speaker, concerning the elections that took place in 2020. [[Voice from the room: These are just notes.]] Ladies and gentlemen, all the materials have been made available in accordance with applicable law to both parliamentarians controlling the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers and the Supreme Chamber of Control. At first, I wanted to clarify this particular issue. Ladies and gentlemen! Each of us, when we took our vows, knew that he would have to make difficult decisions. Everyone who chose politics and at the same time entered the service as a government official, minister, secretary of state, knew that. Each of us also had to face the possibility that he might face problems that no one had ever faced before. This is the problem, the challenge in the category of the most difficult ones, we faced in the spring of the Ub. when we faced an unprecedented threat, namely the COVID-19 pandemic, and the need to organise elections for the office of the President of the Republic during its duration. I have the impression that some of the participants in today's debate, some of the people in this Chamber, do not remember what we had to face then. [[Voice from the room: We remember very well.]] Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that in the first months of 2020, a wave of pandemics hit our country and Europe as a whole. This extraordinary situation, this emergency situation has brought us together for a moment. We could be a community again. As a political class, we have been able to face the threat that this plague has brought to our country together beyond any division. Unfortunately, it took a very short time. After a few weeks, when the United Right was doing her best to stop the disastrous health and economic effects of the first pandemic strike, the Civic Platform had only one goal. She wanted to use this time politically, act on the cynical principle that the worse the better. During the fight for health and safety of Poles, the Platform was only thinking about its own political interest. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is one of the fundamental differences in our thinking about the state and the common good. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] When we faced the need to hold elections of the President of the Republic of Poland during the pandemic on the constitutional date, you felt that this was the right time to get on the road to confrontation. When you saw your candidate for this office, Marshal Margaret Kidawa-Błońska has no chance of success in the election race, you decided to do everything you could to prevent the election from taking place. [[Voice from the room: Don't lie!]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, it was. You don't lie.]] You were ready to bring Poland into chaos. How much we've heard about the statutory election... [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] [[Don't be Moravian.]] ...the deadline for May is a deadly threat? How many times did Poles listen to slogans about the fact that elections pose a threat to the lives of millions of citizens? [[Voice from the room: How many times have we heard that the virus is gone?]] [[The virus is in the back.]] Anyone who wants to make an election on May 10 will have blood on their hands. Remember who said that? Chairman of the Civic Platform, Mr Boris Budka. [[Voice from the room: Dismissed.]] I understand that at the time you were hoping that the health crisis would lower the president's ratings. You proposed an election in the fall. That's why, to increase your chances. Where was your slogan at the time: the Constitution? [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: And we had the whole time...]] What would happen to the president's term of office rule? You said we were going after the dead to the target, you said that only a madman would make the election in May, you were hiding yourself from the care of the health of Poles, you threatened that anyone who was on the committee would be put at risk. [[Voice from the room: Act on Natural Disaster.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what was that all about? What did you care about? We learned that shortly after the election was postponed to June. The object of your concern, the real concern of the Civic Coalition, was to get rid of a candidate for president who had no chance of getting one. [[Applause]] It's a good result. [[Stop it, stop it, man.]] It was about replacing you with Marshal President Rafał Trzaskowski. When this was done, the arguments about pandemic danger disappeared in a strange way. Not only you, but also the sympathetic media stopped calling them. You really don't remember that? That was a few months ago. [[Tell me about your e-mails.]] Ladies and gentlemen, at the time Poland needed a president, it needed a balance in order to be able to fight the pandemic effectively. [[Voice from the room: About emails.]] We acted and made decisions under absolutely exceptional conditions. [[About the e-mails. It's about safety.]] Never before has any government faced this kind of challenge that we have faced. Unfortunately, on the part of the Civic Coalition, instead of wishing to engage in a dialogue in such an important case for the functioning of the State, it was only a desire to confront. I am convinced that no matter what we do then, you would criticize us today for this decision. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] Ladies and gentlemen, were these simple decisions? That's what we're discussing today. Were those simple decisions? No, they were very serious and very complicated decisions. Were there differences of opinion and different ideas on how to deal with this situation? [[Voice from the room: Right.]] Yeah, it was. Should we wait, postpone these elections? Absolutely not. During the pandemic, we need to act decisively and quickly for the benefit of all citizens. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: For yourself, right?]] On the basis of the good and the overriding, explicitly enshrined in the Constitution, the obligation to hold elections in due time, we have taken appropriate and appropriate decisions. We took these decisions in the spirit of responsibility for the state, so that the continuity of the power of the President of the Republic of Poland would not be violated. Ladies and gentlemen, we must look to the future today. To this day in Poland we have performed approx. 27 million vaccinations. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear.]] That's still not enough, okay? [[Voice from the room: Whose fault is it?]] We need systematic, strenuous and calm work on key issues for all of us. We need to take responsibility for Poland. I am calling for this responsibility today for the entire opposition. It is about each of the topics concerning the safety of Poland and Poles. [[Voice from the hall: Let him resign and not appeal.]] We may differ in our views, but on fundamental issues for our country the whole political class should rise above its own interests. [[Voice from the room: That's right, that's right.]] The preparation and implementation of the presidential elections safe for Poles last year was precisely such an undertaking. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u431	Thank you. Please take the floor of the President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u432	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today is a sad day for Polish democracy. [[Voice from the hall: He's been sad for six years.]] Imagine what would happen if a very high official in France, a public official, a public official in Germany or in the United Kingdom, were attacked by a foreign state service. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[By his own incompetence.]] [[What about the United States?]] Surely, the vast majority or all of the political class in these countries would unite to defend such an official, and they would unite to defend themselves against such an attack that would affect this country. This is happening right in front of us right now in Germany and in other countries of Western Europe. For this to happen, you need to have a sense of statehood. What about You move in such an area, you probably know this saying by Władysław Konopczyński, orgy of partying. It is an orgy of partying. You're only looking through the prism of what concerns your very short-term business. If we really look for Konopczynski and others, which led to the fall of the First Republic, first of all: lack of sense of statehood, lack of care for state institutions and repair of these institutions. And that is why, High Izbo, today it is worth asking yourself this question: Why was Minister Dworczyk recently so violently attacked from outside the Polish state, from the Russian Federation? [[Because of your own stupidity.]] I'm putting up a simple thesis that's from the enemy's point of view. It's obvious to us countries. Unfortunately, from the point of view of the Civic Platform, it is also obvious. [[Voice from the room: Unfortunately.]] Well, you just have a fairly consistent policy of hitting where our country is repairing quickly, where we are strong. And it is worth noting that Minister Dworczyk has been responsible for the construction and implementation of a complex, very complex, and I recommend looking at the details of this system, the national vaccination system. [[The system error was. Remember?]] We promised, for example, that by the end of June we would carry out 20 million vaccinations. Well, ladies and gentlemen, by the end of June we will have 30 million vaccinations. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] And only on the will of Polish citizens, to whom we should call for vaccination together, depends on whether we will be able to achieve collective immunity at a short pace. The national vaccination programme as the first pillar of an effective and responsible country during the pandemic period is a great work of Minister Dworczyk. And the second topic that Minister Dworczyk has certainly been pricking in the eye for 10 months and disturbs many beyond our eastern border is the consistent plea for free and democratic Belarus. [[Terletsky and I are reproving each other.]] Minister Dworczyk has been fighting for 20 years to make our eastern border more freedom, more democracy and care for Poles who live there. [[Applause]] [[More Terletsky.]] These are two basic reasons for which he has recently been attacked very strongly, just in the way we are discussing here. We know very well that this is an attack that was not just about him. [[Voice from the room: That's enough.]] From the statements that have been made to the public by our services, we know that this attack has affected many people, including politicians currently sitting in parliamentary benches and former Members, former senators. We know that this is a broad attack by the Russian Federation. [[Voice from the room: This is classified information.]] In such a situation, High Izbo, we have the right to expect solidarity, because it obliges fundamental loyalty to the Polish state. [[Applause]] Do you know what basic loyalty to the Polish state is? [[What are you talking about, man? The Cubans wanted to break your hands.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to realise that in the situation in which Minister Dworczyk acted in the case of the organisation of correspondence elections and in the case of the current situation, there may be some slippages, some errors may occur. [[Voice from the room: Private e-mails.]] [[Voice from the room: President will replace you.]] Nobody's perfect, not even machines are perfect, but people who work like machines deserve a little respect. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Dworczyk na premiere.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, if you have some integrity in your conscience, if you can look at what Minister Dworczyk has done in recent years... [[Voice from the room: What did he do?]] ...and in particular in recent months in the case of the fight against pandemics, effective fight against pandemics, fighting for free and democratic Belarus, so that Poles are not persecuted there... [[Voice from the room: Hospital in Wroclaw.]] His actions should be appreciated. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] It is important to appreciate that, without fearing to expose great, powerful opponents, he has consistently pursued such a policy rather than another one. [[Voice from the room: There is no shame.]] Therefore, High Izbo, today I would like all Members, including those who have applied for a vote of distrust, to think very deeply during these votes, all these three votes, because you want to vote in favour of appealing true patriots who do everything to ensure that the Polish institutions and the Polish state act as best as possible. [[Voice from the room: There is no shame.]] Law and Justice, the United Right will vote decisively against all these three barren requests for distrust in our ministers. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: You will vote for the Party Republic.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u433	Thank you, Prime Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote in a moment in the voting block. [[A voice from the courtroom: You stand at the courthouse, and you stand at the premiere?]] We return to the consideration of item 11 of the agenda: Request for the cancellation of Mr.Ryszard Terletki from the function of Deputy Marshal of the Polish Sejm. [[One second, I need to activate the card.]] Before you draw up the cards, I would just like to remind you that after the vote has been completed in the dark living room, I am calling the Convention, okay? Right after the votes. I see you're okay now. Again. We return to the consideration of item 11 of the agenda: Request for the cancellation of Mr.Ryszard Terletki from the function of Deputy Marshal of the Polish Sejm. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Let's move on to the vote. According to Art. Article 10a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: The 5th Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall be revoked by the Vice-Marshal of the Sejm by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting an appeal request from the Vice-Marshal of the Sejm of Mr Ryszard Terletki, would like to raise his hand and press the button. [[Voice from the room: The whole room.]] [[Terlecki probably stopped.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? Question: "Was it working for everyone?" [[Voices from the room: Yes.]] [[Voice from the room: We'll see.]] 447 Members voted. For - 211, against - 235, 1 holding back. The Sejm rejected the motion to dismiss Mr Ryszard Terletki from the role of Vice-Marshal of the Sejm in the absence of an absolute majority of votes. [[Some Members stand up, long-term applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] We'll proceed with the examination... [[Room voice: Bravo, Waldek!]] [[Voice from the room: Don't embarrass yourself.]] We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Request for the cancellation of Mr.Ryszard Terletki from the function of Vice-Marshal of the Sejm. Let's move on to the vote. According to Art. Article 10a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: The 5th Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall be revoked by the Vice-Marshal of the Sejm by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of an appeal request from the Vice-Marshal of the Sejm... [[Voice from the room: That's already been done.]] But there were two conclusions, ladies and gentlemen. We are voting on the second proposal. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting an appeal request from the Vice-Marshal of the Sejm of Mr Ryszard Terletki, would like to raise his hand and press the button. [[Voice from the room: Cancel it.]] [[Voice from the room: Now it's in favour.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[There's a chance for Prime Minister Gowin.]] [[Voice from the room: Andzel T-shirt will be...]] [[Now take off your shirt.]] [[Voice from the room: Waldek, take off your shirt.]] 448 Members voted. 212 - for, 236 - against, no one abstained. [[Some Members stand up, long-term applause]] The Sejm rejected the motion to dismiss Mr Ryszard Terletki from the role of Vice-Marshal of the Sejm in the absence of an absolute majority of votes. [[Applause]] We return to the examination of item 13. of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Internal Affairs and Administration - Mariusz Kaminski. Let me remind you that according to the article. Point (c) of paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland Sejm expresses the vote of distrust by a majority of the statutory number of Members. The Commission has taken a negative view of the proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Home Affairs and the administration of Mariusz Kaminski will want to raise his hand and press the button. [[Voice from the hall: All Poles.]] Who's against it? [[Voice from the room: Russians.]] Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 212 - for, 235 - against, 1 abstained. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Some Members stand up, long-term applause]] In view of the failure to obtain the required majority of votes, the Sejm rejected the motion to express a vote of distrust to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration of Mariusz Kaminski. We return to the consideration of item 14 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of State Assets - Jack Sasina. Let me remind you that according to the article. Point (c) of paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland Sejm expresses the vote of distrust by a majority of the statutory number of Members. The Commission has taken a negative view of the proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister of State Assets, Mr Sasina, would like to raise his hand and press the button. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Not working.]] Who's against it? [[It's not working.]] Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: It works, it works.]] [[Room voice: 3:0.]] 448 Members voted. 213-- for, 235-- against, no one held back. [[Long-term applause]] [[Some Members get up and chant: Jacek! Jacek! Jacek!]] In view of the failure to obtain the required majority of votes, the Sejm rejected the motion to express a vote of distrust to the Minister of State Assets, Jack Sasin. We return to the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards the Minister - member of the Council of Ministers, Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister - Michał Dworczyk. Let me remind you that according to the article. Point (c) of paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland Sejm expresses the vote of distrust by a majority of the statutory number of Members. The Commission has taken a negative view of the proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister - a member of the Council of Ministers, the Head of the Office of the Prime Minister of the Council of Michał Dworczyk, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 210 for, 237 against, no one stopped. [[Long-term applause]] [[Room voice: 4:0.]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] [[Some Members get up and chant: Michael! Michael! Michael!]] The Sejm rejected the request to express a vote of distrust to the Minister - a member of the Council of Ministers, the head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister of the Council of Michałów Dworczyk. [[Voice from the room: One more!]] [[Voice from the hall: What was it for?]] This concludes the agenda items scheduled for June 23rd. I'd like to inform you that they've reported... Excuse me, sir. I'm announcing a five-minute break and calling the Convention to the dark living room. You're welcome. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 00 minutes 16 hours 00 min 22]] Good evening. I'm reopening the session. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for June 23rd. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? Because we've got these people 10, 11 already. We're closing the list. 11 people are registered. No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Mr Dariusz Olszewski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u434	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! A nation that does not respect its past does not deserve respect for the present and has no right to the future," said Marshal Józef Piłsudski. 76 years ago, on June 21, 1945, 16 leaders of the Polish Underground State with General Okulicki heard the verdict handed down in a show trial in Moscow. After the unprecedented kidnapping by the NKVD in March 1945, the leaders of underground Poland were transported to Moscow and imprisoned in Lubianka. For the next three months, they were intensively interrogated in preparation for the demonstration process. The trial began on 18 June, following Soviet models, which obviously had nothing to do with the judicial process known for its democratic principles. It was a manifest violation of international agreements which do not recognise the judgment of the State authorities of one State by the judicial authorities of another State under its laws. In an indictment based on the Soviet penal code Poles were accused of illegal activity in the National Army, the Council of Ministers and the Council of National Unity and the preparation and execution of acts of diversion and killing of members of the Soviet armed forces, maintaining illegal radio stations in the rear of Soviet troops and committing other criminal acts. And in addition, General Okulicki was accused of espionage and conducting an interview at the rear of the Red Army. At the end of the day, the Attorney General. Afanasyev gave an accusatory speech in which he outlined a Stalinist vision of Poland's history. He stated that the process summarized the criminal activity of the Polish reaction, which fought against the Soviet Union over many years and sold the interests of its people. The indictment was therefore a clear statement that the Polish authorities independent of Moscow are illegal, and the future Poland is to be a country dependent on the USSR. 21 June 1945 at 3 p.m. 16.30 General Vasily Ulrich read the verdict issued by the Military College of the Supreme Court of the USSR. Twelve defendants were sentenced to prison from 4 months to 10 years. General Leopold Okulicki was sentenced to 10 years, Jan Stanisław Jankowski for 8 years, Adam Bień for 5 years. Three were acquitted, and Anthony Pajdak was sentenced to five years in prison in a separate trial. Three arrested never returned to Poland. General Leopold Okulicki, Jan Stanisław Jankowski and Stanisław Jasiukowicz died in prison. Fourth - Kazimierz Póżak died in prison after returning to Poland. After the punishment, some of the convicts returned to the country, and some went into exile. High Seym! Hello and praise to the heroes who gave their lives for free Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u435	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u436	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On June 23, 1943, the second stage of the displacement and pacification action began in Zamość. The Werwolf action - the Werewolf action - was carried out by the Germans in June and August 1943. During that period, 30 and 60 thousand were displaced. Poles from 171 villages. Resettlements within the Werwolf action were the most brutal actions of the German administration in this area and were intended to completely clear the area from Poles under German and Ukrainian colonization. The action was a practical implementation of the Nazi plan of Generalplan Ost, which was to gain a living space for the Germans. Its aim was to completely expel the Polish population from Zamość region and settle it with Germans. The action was the third attempt by the German colonization of these areas during the occupation. The villages inhabited by the Germans were also to be surrounded by a belt of villages inhabited by Ukrainians and Volksdeutschs. They were supposed to be a protection zone, separating the race of masters from possible attacks by Polish guerrillas. The operation was on a wide and unprecedented scale in occupied Poland. Two Wehrmacht reserve divisions, a battalion of seven police regiments, horse police divisions, motorized military battalions, the Ostlegion battalions, and even the aviation squadron took part in the action. The operation involved large forces of military police, SS, auxiliary Ukrainian police and a total of about 10,000. Wehrmacht soldiers. During the Werwolf action, there were many murders, robberies, and rapes against the civilian population. The executions as a tool of mass terror were carried out in the so-called. Zamojska Rotunda, where about 8,000 were shot. persons. In total, 30 and 60 thousand were displaced. persons from 171 villages in the powiats: Bilgorajski, Tomaszowski, Zamość and Hrubieszowski. Most of them went to concentration camps, among others. in Lublin, Majdanek. 4454 children were transferred to the Third Reich, where they were Germanized. The German occupation authorities conducted in the years 1941-1943 the displacement of the Polish population from the Zamość region was part of a large-scale plan for the new colonization occupied by the Germans in the areas of Central and Eastern Europe. Between 1939 and 1944, some 110 thousand were displaced from these areas. Poles from 297 villages. We remember. That's our story. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u437	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Baszko, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u438	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're celebrating Civil Service Day today. This is an annual celebration of 23 June, set up by the UN General Assembly on 20 December 2002. The first event took place in 2003. Day celebrations aim to highlight the importance of public services and community service achievements and its activities for economic development, democracy and world peace. This day is intended to appreciate public service work and encourage young people to start a career in the public sector. The public sector consists of all entities of the national economy grouping state ownership, ownership of local or local government units of legal persons and mixed ownership with capital of public sector entities. Public sector activity is primarily based on providing citizens with social assistance, guaranteeing national security, planning space planning. On Civil Service Day, I wish all those employed in this sector a lot of strength, perseverance, empathy for others, the realization of many projects for the good of people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u439	Thank you very much. Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u440	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On June 26 we will celebrate a beautiful anniversary, the 38th anniversary of the death of a special person, a special person, a great patriot, a great hero. Once again, I recall a soldier of independence, a special person for me personally, but above all a unique person from the point of view of regained independence. June 26th is the 38th. The anniversary of the death of my great-grandfather, the older firefighter Paweł Tulayev, a soldier of independence. Paweł Tułaev joined the First Brigade of Polish Legions by Józef Piłsudski on August 5, 1915. He began his service in the 7th infantry regiment, and then in 1916, after his dissolution, began his service and continued to function, continuing to fight in the 5th infantry regiment. In 1917, when the time of the oath crisis came, Józef Piłsudski refused to take an oath on Emperor Wilhelm's fidelity. II. This caused him to be interned on July 16, 1917, first in Chives and then in Benjaminów. He was released from the internment center on October 25, 1918. He returned to Lublin, but did not lock himself in his home. He didn't hide, but he kept fighting. He continued to fight for free and independent Poland. He participated in the disarming of Austrians in Lublin and then, after a few days, i.e. On 14 November 1918, he set out to the Eastern Front to fight for the Eastern border of the Republic. As in the Polish Legions of Józef Piłsudski, also during this Polish-Bolshevik war he participated in all fights, in all battles. He was wounded at Magierov. I remember the year 1932, when the soldier of independence, the older fireman Paweł Tułayew was awarded by the President of the Republic of Ignacy Mościcki by the Cross of Independence for his work in the work of regaining independence. Paweł Tułaev was also awarded the Medal of the Tenth anniversary of Recovered Independence, as well as the Memorial Medal for the 1918-1921 War. Paweł Tulaev was also awarded the Badge for his faithful service. This is the badge of the First Brigade of Polish Legions by Józef Piłsudski. It was probably handed to him personally by Józef Piłsudski. He was also awarded a badge for Chives and the Memorial Badge of Ideas Prisoners. Once again, with great pride, as the great-grandson of the independence soldier, the older fireman Paweł Tulayev, I recall this extraordinary man, my great-grandfather, who fought for free Poland, who so beautifully signed up for the work of regaining independence. This was confirmed by the distinctions he received in the following years. I am extremely proud that today, as a great-grandson of such great patriot and soldier of independence, as a Member of the Republic of Poland, I can talk about my great-grandfather, about the soldier of independence from this place, from the Seym Tribune. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u441	Thank you very much. Ms Anna Ewa Cicholska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u442	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! June 20th this year in my hometown of Lekowo, in the district of Ciechanow, the place of memory of 17-year-old Adam Rzewuski, ps. The storm. Adasia Rzewuski's memory is still alive among the inhabitants of our area. On the last day of March 1944, during Adam's task, there was a firefight with the German patrol. A German policeman was shot. Unfortunately, badly wounded Adasia was taken to the local police station in Lekowo. Adam, after his brutal interrogation by the Gestapo, was fully aware of the hopeless situation. But he didn't give up anyone. To this day, it is unknown what the Germans have done with the body of a heroic soldier. Near the Klin ranger there is a towering boulder with brass board located in September 1969. Here on March 31, 1944, Adaś Rzewuski, ps. The storm. He was captured by the Gestapo, and died the day after the torture in Lekowo.The plaque was founded by the Ciechanowska Land Lovers' Society. For many years, members of the company have organized anniversary celebrations in this place involving families of combatants, official delegations of state and local authorities and residents of the commune. The celebrations are attended by students of our schools and scouts. Now in Leczów thanks to the initiators, i.e. Your uncle and councilman Regimin, especially thanks to Councilman Mariusz Barański, was founded a plaque near the place where Adam Rzewuski was tortured and where he died. It is an expression of our gratitude and respect for the heroes of those days. We pay tribute to a young man, a young soldier of the Home Army, who, for his beloved, brightest Republic, gave what he had the most precious - his own life. The patriotic program performed by children from primary school in Regimina was extremely touching. It is very encouraging that, thanks to the work of teachers, children and young people are actively involved in such events. They learn not only the story, but also the true meaning of patriotism. The attitude and dedication of their colleague from over 70 years ago gives them reason to be proud. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u443	Thank you. Małgorzata Chmiel, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u444	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Almost 80% Forests in Poland are administered by State Forests. This is the largest area of modern Europe. The population is paying attention to the increased logging in recent years. Those lying trees are terrifying to many. It is very important to protect the forests of urban agglomerations, landscape parks, and it is necessary to limit the extraction of this wood for commercial purposes, only to leave it for conservation purposes when it comes to landscape parks and urban agglomerations. Forest works, including tree cutting, are done on the basis of the so-called. a plan for the installation of a forest which is prepared once every 10 years. However, Polish law does not give the public the opportunity to challenge these documents and thus deprives citizens of their real impact on the functioning of these forests. This problem was highlighted by the European Commission, recommending the introduction into the Polish legal system of the possibility to challenge precisely this plan of forest equipment. The European Commission referred Poland to the Court of Justice of the European Union in December 2020 to the Court of Justice of the European Union in the face of a 2-fold refusal to intervene in this case. I was two times, putting the so-called. Parliamentary intervention with Prime Minister Morawiecki and Minister Szymański, who is responsible for European affairs on the subject, for access to documents and correspondence between the Polish Government and the European Commission. These documents have not been made available to me. I'll keep trying until it's done. Ladies and gentlemen! PiS once threatened with imaginary privatisation by the government of PO-PSL State Forests, and he himself made them a private farm, in which people unfortunately ruled by Mr Zbigniew Ziobra. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u445	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u446	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! 65 years ago, 28 June 1956, at the Hippolit Cegielski Plant, then bearing the name of them. Joseph Stalin in Poznań broke out the first general strike in the Polish People's Republic, which turned into street demonstrations bloody suppressed by the army and militia. The history of Poznan June knows many people, but today I would like to pay attention to and pay the highest respect to the lawyers, the steadfast defenders of those events. This task was undertaken, among others. Attorney Dr. Stanisław Hejmowski, who accused the state authorities of causing demonstrations and the death of victims in the courtroom. Attorney Stanisław Hejmowski was born on June 22, 1900 in Lipawa, Kurland. In 1924 he graduated from the University of Warsaw, and in 1928 he passed the judge's exam and began working as an assistant and then a prosecutor of the District Court in Poznań. In 1930, he was listed as a lawyer. In 1946, together with Jan Kręglewski's attorney, he began defending himself from the office of the Reich Governor in the Land of Warta Arthur Greiser. Before he agreed, he refused twice, explaining personal harm, such as expelling two brothers from Poznań in 1939 or the death of two brothers. However, the greatest fame and place in history brought him the already mentioned defense of protesters on Poznań streets in June 1956. During the trial, he demonstrated integrity of character, legal and dwarf talent. In his closing speech he said, "Every sentence is the last sentence for the judges who passed it." The accused have further instances, the judges do not have any, and therefore before the collapse of this decision for you, judges, let there be an hour of great spiritual concentration. Infiltrate your hearts, into your consciences, and then in front of you, gentlemen judges, eyes let the banner of white and red held in the hands of the Polish child. His defense speech has gone into history, and his civic integrity and professional law virtuosoism have greatly contributed to the withdrawal of communist power from modeled Soviet demonstration processes. Since the late '40s. Hejmowski was an object of interest in UB. The surveillance intensified in March 1956. After the process, the workers became one of the main objectives of the Security Office. In 1961, most of his previous clients were interviewed. In July 1961, on the basis of the decision of the Minister of Justice, he was suspended in the performance of his professional duties, while in the media a chase for Hejmowski's lawyer began. State media reported that he overpaid his attorney's fees and took bribes. The Finance Department of the National Council decided on the tax domain, which led to Heymowski's loss of all his assets. He was also denied the right of patronage, training and examination for applicants. The suspension expired in May 1963, but mec. Heymowski didn't go back to active work anymore. He died on May 31, 1969 in Poznań. He's buried in Junikovsky's cemetery. In 2001, the Bureau of the Supreme Bar Council granted him a posthumous badge of the Deserved Attorney and on the 50th anniversary of June events his name was given to one of Poznań's streets. In 2006 he was posthumously decorated with the Commander's Cross of the Order of the Rebirth of Poland. In 2010 in Poznań, a monument of the lawyers of June was unveiled.56 The inscription on the monument reads: "Adwokats of steadfast defenders in the June 1956 trials and political processes." In the light of quite consistent opinion, the leaders among numerous benches besides Dr. Stanisław Hejmowski were also lawyers Gerard Kujanek, Michał Grzegorzewicz and Janusz Waliszewski. Especially at this particular time, they also deserve the highest respect and memory. An independent lawyer then and today is a guarantee of civil rights and freedoms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u447	Thank you very much. Mr Waldemar Andzel, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u448	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a statement on the activities of the Territorial Defence Forces in the last few days. I would like to express my sincere appreciation for the actions of the Territorial Defence Army soldiers in recent days. Soldiers help firefighters in White Mud: tidy up the area of the firefighter, distribute supplies and food. Thank you for your support for the people affected by the great tragedy. At the same time, WOT soldiers operate in Poznań. In a flooded clinical hospital, they move patients and prepare the facility for opening. The territorial defense forces proved to be incredibly helpful in the course of the Coronavirus pandemic. Soldiers were seen everywhere: hospitals, social services and vaccination facilities. The question arises: What did the people who claimed that the Territorial Defence Forces were unnecessary at the time? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u449	Thank you very much. Mr Stanisław Bukowiec, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u450	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 8 years ago, on 23 June 2013, the salt mine in Bochnia was included in the UNESCO World Heritage List. Thus, the uniqueness and natural and unique interior of the Bochean soup were appreciated. It is the oldest mining plant in Europe, which operated continuously from 1248 until the beginning of the 1990s. 20th century In the early days, as a royal company, he was making huge profits. It should be stressed that salt was then the strategic commodity of the kingdom, which was responsible for 25% of its revenue. It was the salt that financed the Polish revolution Kazimierz later called the Great. In the 15th and 16th centuries there was a significant development of the mine, which at that time employed nearly 500 people. In the 17th century, due to war, among others. The Swedish flood, followed by the economic collapse, has stopped the company's development. After 1771, the mine and the city were in the Austrian conquest. New windows and new decks were created. The mine also operated after Poland regained its independence, although in the 20th century there was a successful reduction in salt extraction due to its cost-effectiveness. In 1981 the mine was entered in the register of monuments, while in 1990 industrial salt mining ceased. Since then, a new chapter of tourism activities has begun for this oldest mining plant. The production of salt made Bochnia one of the most important economic centers of medieval Małopolska. Almost every century, it had a clear impact not only on the economic development of the city and its surroundings, but also on the development of industry and transport. She was an important driver of spatial, functional, social and cultural transformations. The lift towers of the shafts of Campi, Sutoris and Trinitatis, as well as other objects of the earth are still shaping the landscape of Bochni. Salinar history of the city is also reflected in the characteristic and original street naming. It was in the Bocheń mine that mining methods were being modernised, introducing innovative technical solutions, such as those used as extraction machines, and in 1930 a steam machine was installed in 1909 at the Laura Huta in Chorzów. You can also admire it perfectly well preserved today. Currently, the salt mine in Bochnia is a real pearl among the monuments of south-eastern Poland. It is very authentic, and in the absence of a museum character it seems like a recently completed production, which combined with multimedia holograms creates a very interesting effect. There is also a great interest in underground crossings by wooden boats, mining railway rides or a 140-metre slide. It is worth noting here that being in a unique microclimate of underground excavations reduces the symptoms of allergies and improves the health of people with respiratory diseases. Today's anniversary is an opportunity to thank all those who contributed to the inclusion of the mine in the UNESCO World Heritage List. As a Member of the Boche land, I do not hide the satisfaction and joy of having such cultural and historical value in my territory. I would also like to thank the Government of the United Right for supporting the activities of the Bochen mine so far and ask for further support, especially in the context of the ongoing pandemic, which has slowed down tourism for many months and has thus significantly reduced the revenues of the mine. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u451	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u452	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Under the slogans of opposition against teachers, educators, older students, parents, educational activists and self-government workers from all over Poland, planned by the Minister of Education and Science. They protest because the school has a key impact on the future of young people. It shapes their personality, develops their interests and passions. Modern European school conditions include modern facilities, programs, as well as educators, enthusiasts, individual approaches to the student, modern teaching methods, teaching children and young people tolerance to peers of different skin colors, believing in different gods or non-believers, as well as various sexual orientations when they enter adulthood. Janusz Korczak wrote: "All children are children of God. Sadly, he did not know that some of God's works would not appeal to certain politicians of Law and Justice. It is known that the quality of teaching and education in Polish schools is particularly influenced by creative and courageous directors, who enjoy the support of their parents and the trust of local governments. However, the Minister of Education and its curators have no influence, who, as the Olsztyn or Kraków example shows, are active politicians and party officers, not teachers who understand schools and students. That is why parliamentarians of the Left and the school community of many outrageous institutions adopted information about plans of Minister Czarnek and Minister Piontkowski to replace such creative and competent directors with activists and puppets of local structures of Law and Justice or satellite parties. If the new education regulations come into force, it is PiS politicians from Polish villages and cities who will have a decisive vote when choosing the headmaster of the school. Even if the leading authorities, pedagogical councils, parents, or government-independent trade unions did not agree with this. It's easy from here to appoint as heads of schools of typical mediocre, passive, but faithful politicians. It is also a temptation for political guardians to easily and quickly cancel anyone who does not like local politicians, families of politicians or parish priests. Thus, the municipality will be a governing body only by name, and the director will be a director without programming, organizational and decision-making autonomy. Therefore, Polish self-government officials and the entire school community call on Minister Czarnek to remember and stop the destruction of Polish education, because the school is just like the forest - to burn and destroy easily, but the destruction is rebuilt for years. And often it is not possible to rebuild what hastily been destroyed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u453	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u454	Dear Marshal, On 19 June 2021, the Gminne Firefighter's Day Celebrations were postponed from May due to the Gminne Pandemic Festival, combined with the dedication and transfer to use of the CSR Firefighter's Firefighter's Firefighter's Firefighter's Firefighter's Firefighter's Firefighter's Firefighter's Firehouse in Bogochwala and the dedication and transfer to use of the new Scania battle car for the local CSR unit. The cost of renovation of the firehouse is approx. PLN 1 million, financed entirely from the own resources of the municipality of Bogochwała, while the combat car worth about PLN 1 million was purchased from the funds of the National Rescue and Gas System, the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, the Provincial Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management in Warsaw and Rzeszów, the municipality of Bogochwała, private sponsors and own funds of the voluntary fire department in the village. I had the pleasure of participating in this important event for the local community. The ceremony was also attended by: superbrigadier Andrzej Babić - Podkarpackie Regional Commandant of the State Fire Guard in Rzeszów, parish priest in Bogochwale Fr. Dean Mariusz Mik, senior brigadier Krzysztof Filip - Deputy Commissioner of the City State Fire Service in Rzeszów, Mr Józef Jodłowski - Starosta Rzeszowski with the councillors, Mr Wiesław Kąkol - Mayor of Bogochwała, Mr Piotr Desertny - Chairman of the City Council in Bogochwale, together with the councillors, friends from the units of the CSR of the municipality of Bogochwała and residents. The meeting was opened by the President of the Municipal Board in Bogochwale Kazimierz Siorek. During the ceremony gold, silver and bronze medals were awarded for the merits of the fire and the decorations of a model firefighter for volunteers from the area of the municipality of Boguchwała. The ceremony was celebrated by the honorary company of the OSP from the municipality of Bogochwała, and the musical setting was provided by the Orchestra of the Dęta of the Municipality of Bogochwała from Mogielnica. Congratulations to the CSR friends in Bogochwale on getting a new combat car, which they have tried for several years, let it serve for many years. It was purchased from funds secured by the Modernization Act, from which car purchases are financed, among others. for TSOs. I am very pleased that NFOŚ and WFOŚ also see the need to finance such investments. I would like to thank my colleagues from Podkarpacie for their consistent and fruitful cooperation through which individuals from our region receive aid for the purchase of equipment, repair of guards, etc. Our cooperation with the Provincial Commandant of the PSP in Rzeszów is also very good with Andrzej Babc. I particularly commend Mr Wiesław Kąkol and the councillors of the city council in Bogochwala for the funds for the purchase of this car. Mariusz Gajdek - communal commander in Bogochwale and Maciej Swist - head of CSR in Bogochwale contributed an invaluable help in obtaining the car. This is another car for CSR units from Podkarpacie and that's not the end of it. They'll be next soon.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u455	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Battle of Osuch is considered one of the greatest guerrilla battles in Poland during World War II. In June 1944, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) The Germans carried out two shares under the codenames "Sturmwind I' and "Sturmwind II'. Their aim was to eliminate the troops of the Battalions of Chłopskie and the National Army operating in the Lublin region and the forests of the Solska Forest. The result of Sturmwind II was the Battle of Osuch, also known as the Battle of Sopot, fought on June 25, 1944. Partisans effectively paralyzed German communication, prevented access to nearby villages and even larger cities, but most importantly they organized numerous and effective retaliation and combat actions. The Germans, realizing the dangers posed by the numerous guerrilla troops gathered in the Solska Forest, directed about 30,000 to fight. Soldiers, armored and aerospace weapons. The scale of the action was an event in the General Government, as never before or ever thereafter were the forces involved in the GG as in June 1944. As a result of the battle, almost the entire Polish commanding staff and several hundred AK and BCh soldiers were killed in the area. These tragic events, heroism and martyrdom of Polish soldiers commemorate among others. The cemetery in Osucha, where more than 300 dead lie. It is the largest guerrilla necropolis in Europe. It is estimated that between 375 and 700 soldiers of the Polish underground were killed in battles in the Solska Forest. We managed to identify by name, surname and nickname of ca. 430 fighters. However, these data are incomplete. This number includes guerrillas whose bodies were never found or buried nameless in the Osucha cemetery. Although the Battle of Osuch is the largest guerrilla battle in Poland, it is not spoken of much, although one of the plaques on the grave of the Unknown Soldier is dedicated to this battle. About it are silent textbooks for history, vainly looking for films telling the story of the heroic fight of soldiers of the Polish underground coming from this area. Each year on the last Sunday of June in Osucha, the village located in the Łukowa commune in the Bilgoraj district takes place commemorating the battle of 1944. The central event of the celebration is the Holy Mass in behalf of the victims, attended by loved ones and members of the fallen families, members of numerous patriotic and veteran associations and organizations, and all those who wanted to pay tribute to the fallen. In Osucha, right next to the cemetery there is a memorial house built years ago on the initiative of residents of the commune and the families of the fallen. This year, thanks to the funds acquired under the Government Local Investment Fund, the modernization of the building of the former school will begin, in which the Museum of Polish Partisans will be established, the branch of the Biłgoraj Land Museum. The choice of a building is not accidental. The former school is a pre-war monument, in its walls at one time the military police were based responsible for the detention and cruel torture of guerrillas. Thanks to the many years of efforts of representatives of the Association of Family Soldiers of the Polish Underground State, Osucha 1944, the authorities of the Łukowa commune and the Bilgoraj district using the funds obtained from the Government Local Initiative Fund, a museum will be created, which will be our thanks and tribute to the soldiers who gave their lives in the service of their homeland. May the memory of heroes and their victim never be wiped out.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u456	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 20 June 2021 in Kazimierz Dolny there was an unveiling of a memorial plaque dedicated to the memory of Major. Mariana Bernaciaka ps. Orlik. Marian Bernaciak is a hero of the Vistula lands, a participant in the 1939 defence war, a soldier of the ZWZ, then an AK, finally a soldier of integrity, commander of one of the largest groups of guerrillas of independence operating in the districts of Garwolinski, Puławski, Archivsky, Lubartowski, Kraśnicki and Kozienicki. This group carried out many armed actions against the communist authorities. Orlik died in combat on 24 June 1946 near the village of Piotrówek in the district of Garwolinski. The program of the ceremony included Holy Mass. in the intention of the cursed soldiers, which took place in the Church of St. St. John the Baptist and St. Bartholomew the Apostle in Kazimierz Dolny, the unveiling and consecration of the plaque, the commemorative speeches and the laying of flowers and the scones under the plaque. The ceremony was attended, among others. living combatants, representatives of the Orlik family, parliamentarians representing the Sejm and the Senate, representatives of the voivodeship and the Marshal of the Lublin Voivodeship, representatives of the IPN, local government officials, uniformed services, flag mails, residents of Kazimierz Dolny and guests. The ceremony took place in support of the military representation company. The plaque hanged in the vicinity of the plaque dedicated to the memory of the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński and his wife Maria Kaczyńska, who died tragic death at Smolensk on 10 April 2010. I would like to pay particular tribute and thanks to the World Union of AK Soldiers and the WiN Circle of Puławy, as well as to the parish of Pw. St. John the Baptist and St. Bartholomew the Apostle in Kazimierz Dolny and all those who contributed to the establishment of the plaque and the organization of this solemn occasion. Major Marian Bernaciak! Orlik! Hello, your memory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u457	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few months later, we observe a consolidated opposition attack and a dirty campaign against the construction of a strong multi-energy group within the PKN Orlen Group. The object of the opposition's attacks is to block the takeover by PKN Orlen Polska Press at the hands of the Germans, as well as the merger with the Gdańsk Lotus Group. The European Commission's consent to a merger, to no translation of the company's president, that the merger of Orlen and Lotus has nothing to do with the privatisation that the Platform politicians have misconstrued. There are no arguments that by combining two companies, we will build a stable multi-energy company, which will be easier to survive the energy transformation, which will develop the Polish economy and which will be easier to compete with other foreign companies. In December 2020, PKN Orlen signed a pre-emptive agreement for the acquisition of 100% shares of the Polish Press group, which owns 20 from 24 regional journals, 120 local weekly magazines and about 500 different types of online sites published in our country. Such a transaction, consisting of the acquisition from the hands of the German owner of a significant segment of the paper press, as well as web portals by a Polish company, in which the State Treasury is the majority shareholder, should even call for applause in the Sejm, while opposition politicians have not only doubts in this case, but are attacking for its conduct the government and the authorities of the fuel group. One member of the Civic Coalition stated that when taking over the media, the government wants to control Poles and that regional media are the first stage of PiS taking over independent editorial offices. President Daniel Obajtek stressed that the transaction would significantly strengthen the retail part of the group. He recalled that the company had previously taken over the Energa Group and the Movement Group responsible for the press' sales and retail sales. He argued that the German company was interested in selling and Orlen was buying. The transaction took place and the purchase of several dozen press titles and several hundred Internet portals is part of the strategy of his group. The time has come when the opposition has crossed all limits of absurdity by promoting the boycott of Orlen. Remember: we do not fuel on Orlena!', wrote Mr Adam Szłapka on Twitter. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This is what happens when PKN Orlen, even in the crisis of the pandemic of 2020, generated PLN 3.4 billion net profit, while in the years of the United Right 2016 and 2020 it reached over PLN 26,2 billion in profit.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-23-sejm-33-1.u458	I am ordering an adjournment until tomorrow, which is until 24 June 2021, until 3 p.m. 9:00. Goodbye. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 0 min 51]]
