ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to inform you that the following Commission meetings will be held today: - Education, Science and Youth at 3 p.m. 10.30, - Culture and means of transmission at 3 p.m. 10.30, - Health at about an hour. 10.30, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism at 3 p.m. 10.45, - to the Secret Service at about an hour. 12, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry at 3 p.m. 12, - Infrastructure at 3 p.m. 13, - Communication with Poles abroad at hours. 13, - Health at about an hour. 13, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping at 3 p.m. 14, - Public Finance together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy at 3 p.m. 15, - Economy and Development together with the Health Commission at 3 p.m. 15, - to State Control at 3 p.m. 16, - National Defense at about an hour. 16, - to State Control at 3 p.m. 17, - Social and Family Policy at 3 p.m. 5:30 p.m., - Administration and Home Affairs at 3 p.m. 18, - Communication with Poles abroad at hours. 19, - Senior policy at 3 p.m. 19. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u2	Thank you very much. We have formal requests. Please, Mrs Beata Maciejewska, Left. One minute. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u3	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am making a formal request to interrupt and convene the Seniors' Convention to complete the agenda for the draft resolution of the Left, which calls on the Council of Ministers to bring the matter of the National Plan for Reconstruction and Improvement of Immunity to the Sejm's deliberations. It is up to the Sejm to decide on the National Reconstruction Plan. We are the House which should make decisions on how to spend 250 billion PLN, not Prime Minister Morawiecki in the privacy of his office. The Seym is not the Chamber to discuss here, and then so that the Prime Minister can do whatever he wants. We're MPs. This is one of the most important projects that will be implemented in Poland. And it cannot be that without our participation, without our conclusions (the bell), without our ideas it will be processed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u4	Thank you, Member. Madam, I just wanted to remind you that this is the subject of your current information at this session of the Sejm. That's one thing. Secondly, I won't call the Senior Convention because I just finished his session. On the other hand, there has been a request for a break, which I will put to the vote. Thank you. As a request for interruption has been made, I will put this request to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of declaring a break, will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 208 - for, 227 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. Mr Cezary Tomczyk, Civic Coalition, with a formal proposal. One minute. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u5	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am making a formal request today to postpone the proceedings until tomorrow until the Prime Minister's information on Daniel Obajtka's case is introduced. Ladies and gentlemen! I hear the Central Anti-Corruption Bureau wanted to enter all Daniel Obejtek's properties, but the Central Anti-Corruption Office doesn't have that many officers. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! This situation is very serious. Today we have to ask whether there has been political corruption, because the Polish state is not dealing with the case of Obajtka. Where are the servants? Where's the D.A.'s office? I demand today that Mrs Emilewicz, the husband employed in Orlena, be excluded from this vote, [[Applause]] Mr Cymanski - daughter in Energa, Mr Smolinski - son in Energa, Mrs Golińska - brother of the Management Board of Energi SA, [[Applause]] Mr Krasulski, who is sitting here - a daughter in Energa SA. This is political corruption, my country. [[Applause]] You don't do this because it's your dirty business. Thieves! Thieves! Thank you very much, sir. And this matter should be dealt with by the Polish state as soon as possible... Thank you very much, sir. There's been a request for a continuance... ...in the affairs of Obietka and all the other Szumowskis. Now. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u6	There's been a request for adjournment. I will put this motion to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting, please raise your hand and press the button. Thieves! Coryto plus. PiS bed plus, I'm sorry. Mr President, you would like to behave in the plenary room in a parliamentary manner, okay? You're welcome. Who's against it? That you're hiring everyone. But how many of your men are employed? Who's holding back? For Poles a bowl of rice, for the family of the Treasury company. Mr Monkey! Mr Monkey... Ha, ha, ha! Please, all your fellow Members... I don't understand why everyone here seems to be getting on their nerves. Calm down, please. Calm down, please. Your Marshal, because a Member with a sentence for a heyt shouts out. Mr President, the louder someone shouts, the less he has to say most often. [[Applause]] It's for an MP named Monkey, please. Two weeks, both of us. 444 Members voted. 213 - for, 226 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland, a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u7	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 formally request that the Sejm's sitting be closed... Oh! ...the appointment of a new date for the meeting during which Mr Zbigniew Ziobro's Minister of Justice will explain the situation in the Polish judiciary. The term extends, access to courts gets worse for Poles, but instead the apparatus of the state persecutes judges, haunts the judicial environment. Igor Tuleyi is denied access to judgment today, despite the ruling of the court. This is an outrage. [[Applause]] The judiciary is a very important pillar of every democratic state in the world. Today, you are ruining the democratic system of the Polish state by ruining this judiciary. We demand reflection, extraction, your marshal, lessons from what has been happening recently in the judiciary and before the judges. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u8	Thank you. We haven't started the Seym well yet, and you want to finish it. There you go. A formal motion has been made to close the session of the Sejm. I will put this motion to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of closing this session of the Sejm, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 198 - for, 230 - against, 12 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation. Formal conclusion. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u9	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Another persecution of the Polish national minority began in Belarus. At the moment, the impact is taking place in the forum of local initiatives by Brest and the Brest region. The creators of this initiative, heads of Polish social schools Anna Paniszewa and Alexander Naduringy, are under brutal investigation and held. That is why today, at the meeting of the Seniors Convention, I asked all the political forces in the Sejm to adopt a draft resolution on this issue, clearly standing in defence of our fellow countrymen in Belarus at this meeting of the Sejm. At this point, I'm also handing over to your marshal the project we put in place as near the Confederation. I would ask that there be a cross-party agreement in this case and that we be clear and firm in defending our fellow countrymen in the Eastern Knights. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u10	Thank you, sir. We'll take care of this. We gave it a run. I hope we can communicate on this. But it wasn't a formal motion, so I'm not putting it to the vote. But we would. And the last Mr Janusz Kowalski. Formal conclusion. Ooh... He's still alive. Don't be sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u11	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Marshal, the question of the pipeline Nord Stream 2 is a matter that should bring together all 460 Members in this House. So they should definitely say: not to this Russian-German project. Yesterday, according to the article. 173 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, a group of 15 Members of the Polish Solidarity Minister Zbigniew Ziębra, formally requested that the agenda of the current Sejm be extended, which is also relevant for the debate that is taking place today in the United States on new sanctions on the Nord Stream 2. I kindly ask you to inform me whether this project will be examined, what is the decision on this matter and what is the course of the Solidarna Polska application. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u12	Mr President, the course of this project has been given, it is on the committee, we are waiting for a report. If it is, then we will make a decision. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the commemoration of the 100th anniversary of the March Constitution (Print No 1010). [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The resolution of the Polish Sejm on commemorating the 100th anniversary of the March Constitution. 100 years ago, on 17 March 1921, the Legislative Sejm of the Republic of Poland passed a Constitutional Act. It was a document that responded to the challenges of the time and was the culmination of the state building erected since November 1918. The Constitution, following the date of adoption called March, was in force for 14 years. Her most important article, which states that the sovereignty belongs to a nation composed of citizens, regardless of their ethnic affiliation, was not challenged until the end of the Second Republic. It is true that during the work on the Constitutional Law there were intense political discussions, and after its entry into force there were interpretational disputes, but the democratic foundation on which it was based survived. The March Constitution was the result of 15 months' work and a joint work of the entire political class, from the right to the left. They worked on it, among others. Socialist Mieczysław Niedziałkowski, representative of the folk movement Prof. Józef Buzek, representatives of national democracy: Prof. Edward Dubanowicz and Prof. Stanisław Głąbiński and promethean movement activist Prof. Włodzimierz Wakar. Everyone understood the essence of service to the state, regardless of political divisions. The adoption of the Constitution in March 1921 was one of the important political events that undoubtedly influenced the process of forming a free and sovereign state and remains one of the most important pillars of Polish democracy. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland in the 100th anniversary of the adoption of the March Constitution pays tribute to its creators and recognises that the constitution's foundings of 17 March 1921 are still a permanent element of the Polish system of order. I propose that we adopt this resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Members. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on commemorating the 100th anniversary of the March Constitution. We proceed with the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the draft law amending the laws governing the preparation and implementation of key investments in strategic energy infrastructure (prints Nos 916 and 963). I ask Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u13	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets... Excuse me, sir. Sir, may I have a moment, please? Ladies and gentlemen, all representatives of the Convention in 10 minutes to the lounge. You're welcome. Excuse me, sir. You're welcome. ...I present the committee's report on the examination of the government draft law amending the laws governing the preparation and implementation of key investments in strategic energy infrastructure, Parliamentary printing No. 916. On 10 February 2021, the Marshal of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the committee for first reading. The project introduces solutions to improve investment processes in large strategic investments. The Act introduces the possibility of approving administrative and localisation decisions on the distribution of real estate and on those divisions for which a restriction on the use of real estate is laid down. It clarifies many of the concerns raised during the application of the doubt. It shall specify the use of land forming the road belt covered by the water or rail area. It extends the possibility of using the transport specialty with regard to the demolition permit. It introduces a simplified procedure in the case of decisions to authorise the use of water law or the decision to approve the design of geodetic works. It extends the possibility of entering other people's property for the purpose of carrying out works, measurements or studies. In fact, it contributes significantly to speeding up 24 new investments, which are listed in the annex and without which the implementation of green governance in Poland would be practically impossible. The Commission carried out its first reading and examined this draft law at its meeting on 23 February 2021. Three amendments were tabled during the committee meeting, which, following consideration, the committee took into account in its report, the printing of Seym No 963. The Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets, after considering this draft law, asks the High Sejm to approve the draft law attached to the report. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u14	Thank you, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, Mr Wiesław... Jarosław Krajewski. You're welcome. Wiesław. Wiesław. I'm sorry. Wiesław Krajewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u15	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, I have the honour to present to the High House the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government draft law amending the laws governing the preparation and implementation of key investments in strategic energy infrastructure, print No 916. The proposed bill proposed amendments concerning mainly the Law of 24 April 2009 on investments in the regasification terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście, the Law of 24 July 2015 on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in transmission networks and the Act of 22 February 2019 on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in the oil sector, known as investment specifications. Investment specifications allow for the preparation and implementation of investments consisting in the construction of key investments in strategic energy infrastructure. The experience gained so far during the period of application of investment specifications has shown that they are a tool that improves and accelerates the process of preparation and implementation of the above mentioned. investments. However, an analysis of the current rules on investment specifications has shown that it is necessary to verify certain solutions in order to adapt them to new challenges, changing regulations or clarification of existing ones. The proposed changes aim to further improve the process of preparing and implementing the investments necessary to ensure energy security of the Republic of Poland. Given the need to ensure the energy security of the State by ensuring the proper functioning of the national electricity system and the stability and security of power consumption by electricity consumers, especially in the context of changes in the energy sector and the planned increase in the share of renewable energy sources, including offshore wind energy in the electricity generation structure in the Republic of Poland and the increase in generation capacity in the northern and central parts of the country, the urgent expansion of the energy transmission network is essential, as well as further improvement of investment in the gas transmission network, which includes. will provide fuel for newly built power blocks, and oil infrastructure, which does not meet the challenges of the energy transformation of the Republic of Poland. In view of the above, it should be pointed out that the solutions proposed in the draft law aim to achieve the objective of investment specifications, which is to improve the preparation and implementation of key investments in the field of strategic energy infrastructure and thus ensure energy security of the Republic of Poland. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the draft government law on amending the laws governing the preparation and implementation of key investments in strategic energy infrastructure contained in print No 916. On behalf of the club, I make two amendments to this bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u16	Thank you, sir. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 min 36 hours 10 min 40]] I'm reopening the session. After consulting the Seniors' Convention, the Marshals of the Sejm decided to delete from the agenda the current meeting of the point: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee on the Government bill amending the Law on Government Administration Departments and some other laws (prints Nos 897 and 934). We continue to consider item 2 of the agenda. We're continuing our club appearances. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition by Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u17	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In replacing Mirosława Nykiel, I present the position of the Civic Coalition club vis-à-vis the draft law in prints 916 and 963, on the preparation and implementation of key investments in strategic energy infrastructure. First of all, I would like to stress that the specifications are not good legislative practice and should be used in emergency situations, given the very important public objective. Indeed, in the case of the bill submitted, a very important public objective is being pursued, but provisions are required which, in a comprehensive and planned manner, would allow investment in already existing transmission networks, as well as in new generation sources of electricity, fuel and renewable energy. The habit of ruling on extraordinary legislative measures leads to the avoidance of a very important public consultation from the point of view of the citizen, which allows for optimal solutions for all stakeholders. Despite five years of government of the PiS coalition and the recommendations of the Supreme Audit Chamber, no draft Corridor Law was presented. This draft law clarifies the provisions which raise doubts as to interpretation. The provisions of the well-functioning solutions provided for in other investment regulations have been applied. Lists of investments covered by the special scheme have been verified by changing some of the investments already mentioned and adding new ones. The specific characteristics of the investment involving the preparation and implementation of investments in the maritime areas of the Republic of Poland have been taken into account. The period of validity of the transport specialty was extended until 31 December 2030. The operator of the electricity and gas transmission system has been allowed to participate in the planning process carried out by local government units. It should be stressed that the process of preparing and implementing strategic investments in transmission networks on the basis of general rules governing the investment process requires the involvement of numerous administrative authorities and is extremely time-consuming - the time needed to obtain all necessary administrative acts at the preparatory stage is on average 56 months - which consequently translates negatively into the possibility of ensuring energy security of the Republic of Poland. The duration of the investment process also increases investment costs, which due to the increase in tariffs are ultimately borne by electricity consumers. It should be stressed that the possibility of using the path resulting from the transfer specialty in the current wording reduces the time of preparation of the investment to around 19 months. The amendments proposed in the draft law will lead to a further shortening of this period. In view of the extension of the long-term energy policy planning perspective, the need not only to ensure the smooth preparation and implementation of new investments, but also to enable the modernisation of existing infrastructure, as well as the dynamic development of cooperation between operators of the Member States of the European Union with a view to establishing a common European energy market, the project envisages extending the duration of the transmission speciality until 31 December 2030. This is the period for the investor to prepare and implement the investment in line with the development plan to meet current and future electricity demand for 2021-2030. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When the attached list of strategic investments is examined, questions arise to the Minister. I would also like a written answer to the questions raised. Which of these investments are delayed? What's the delay time? What was the reason for these delays? What are or may arise because of this problems in the energy and fuel market? Why the PiS government during its 5-year rule He didn't even try to prepare and adopt a draft corridor bill? Is the government planning and when to prepare a draft corridor bill? Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Depending on the answer to the above questions, the Civic Coalition, understanding the challenges facing Polish energy industry and the need to ensure continuity of energy supply, intends to support the proposed bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u18	Thank you. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek representing the Left Club will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u19	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the pleasure of presenting my position on behalf of the Left Club on draft print law No. 916 on strategic investments in energy and gas. Unfortunately, this law shows the power of the Government of Law and Justice, because it has been possible to amend this law since 2015. It was possible to introduce these investments into this law, because the last amendment was in 2017. This could also be addressed in the Corridor Act. We are aware that there are many problems with such a law, but finally in Poland the issue of these strategic investments needs to be regulated. Because what we're talking about today, when we talk about this revision of the bill, it's just a prosthetic thing to do when it comes to making this type of investment. The absence of a corridor law, the absence of an amendment of this law has undoubtedly caused that many investments have not been made. Today is 2021, and indeed, given the state's energy policy and the government's document, investment in new energy sources needs a great deal and therefore the need for transmission networks both in terms of gas and energy. What has happened recently with regard to transmission network operators? I can say that as a resident of Szczecin, the person who survived the blackout in 2008. After this blackout, there were many recommendations for the construction of energy transmission networks in the Szczecin agglomeration. And what happened? This construction of the network was simply not realized, because Polish Energy Networks or Gaz-System are piers today. These are companies that employ dozens, hundreds of lawyers, these are companies that do not solve problems, these are companies that do not want to take responsibility - for example, the Szczecin example. It was enough to deal with the local government and it was enough that PSE - not the contractor of this investment, and PSE - signed an agreement with the local government and probably today we would have done this investment guaranteeing the energy security of Szczecin. There were many different directors, deputy directors - none of them had power of attorney. They said, okay, let the contractor sign it with you. The government does not want to talk to contractors or subcontractors, the government wants to talk to network operators, both in the case of gas and in the case of energy. With regard to this bill, one thing needs to be pointed out, namely that it really reduces public consultation, restricts the role of local authorities. And I think, Minister, today it is necessary to look at the hands of the transmission network operators because this law can make them lazy. This law can lead to the fact that they will not want to conduct normal consultations, discussions and negotiations, and unfortunately it cannot be. Because one thing needs to be pointed out, namely many of these investments will be made from European Union funds and the European Union requires these investments to be carried out after consultation, after consultation of local authorities, local communities, and this must therefore be taken into account in this law and, later on, as regards the implementing rules, must be taken into account in relation to the activities of transmission network operators. We are talking about transmission networks here, but the question is what about distribution networks. We discussed this with the Minister on the committee. This is indeed a problem and this is also a problem of the Corridor Act, because in the case of power lines we are talking about 220 kV and higher energy networks, and what about 110 kV lines and distribution networks? If they're not there, it's just not gonna happen. The last issue concerns the regulation of cooperation with, for example, the State Forests, with the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, precisely with distribution system operators and the resolution of conflict-of-law problems that may arise during the course of the investment. These are the topics we're going to be discussing. The Left Club will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u20	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, on behalf of the Polish Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u21	Dear Marshal, Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats - Conservatives I would like to refer to this project on strategic energy infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen! The topic is important, like all energy, because important investments are being made in energy at the moment, big changes are taking place and I think that we will also see these changes in the near future. That is why good infrastructure is needed, but the infrastructure that will result from predictions and predictions of what awaits us. This cannot be an investment without a vision of the further functioning of the energy system in Poland. When it comes to the particularity - because this is a special act - which we are discussing today, I would like to remind you that the beginning of the specialization in the field of investment concerned the construction of road infrastructure when it was impossible to cope with the construction of certain sections of roads. Today we are witnessing another implementation or extension of the functioning of the specialty. With regard to energy infrastructure, as the predecessors have said, the downstream infrastructure is also important. It is particularly important for today's low-voltage networks, which supply directly to customers. 'Cause what's being watched? This topic is often raised - power outages. They're very common. The networks are outdated, transformer networks are not adapted and very often occur, maybe even short, not noticeable, but power outages. With today's electronization, digitalization causes huge losses. Electronic devices are shutting down, you have to log in again, computers are shutting down, you have to take the time to re-use them and refresh them, so it is important to invest in all levels of the energy network. In recent times, despite certain declarations, we have seen a reduction in investment in energy networks. This raises our concerns, especially in remote areas, in rural areas. If there are no decisive decisions - and this should be included in the recovery plan - regarding the expansion of energy networks, the digitalisation of the country... Energy networks are also important. Today, there's a problem with the long-distance transmission of electricity. We will support this bill because it is important, but it violates the freedoms of civil property, the right to manage its own property. It is a project that largely deprives property owners of their rights. We need to be very careful about the implementation of the investments that will be carried out, as well as preparing a comprehensive solution - this is what the predecessors have already talked about - about the corridors, because for several decades now, and maybe several decades, this problem has been present. On the other hand, there are no brave ones who would be able to face this challenge. This is a very difficult challenge, because it requires huge consultations, but I think that one term or two terms should be enough to carry out such consultations (the bell) and create a good project, and do not make further amendments, because the amendment is always worse than a project that takes into account all the comments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u22	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Bosak, on behalf of the Confederate circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u23	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Law and Justice submitted a draft law aimed at harmonising investment specifications. From the justification presented by Minister Tchórzewski we learned that the government wants to facilitate its investment. I have to say, when I talk to investors, I understand the government perfectly. Indeed, the current law is so designed that it is insanely difficult to make investments. Recently, I spoke with one of the entrepreneurs who made investments in the energy sector - specifically: making medium- and low-power connections for industry - and said that the most interesting case in which he participated was over a year of documentation and permits so that in 2 weeks he could connect the power connection for investment. It is no wonder that Poland does not develop at the rate it could, if this is how the arrangements look and this is how it looks to settle various types of permits. I would therefore stress once again: I am not surprised at the fact that the government wants to facilitate its investment. The question is: Why does it not also want to make it easier for citizens to invest? Exactly all the same problems faced by energy companies of the State Treasury or special purpose companies appointed for strategic projects are faced by private investors who would like to start production, but will not wait, for example. A year to connect medium power current. They prefer to make their investments in the Czech Republic, Hungary or elsewhere, where they will be supplied with stable, fast and timely energy. So, as a Confederation, we do not condemn this bill, we do not reject it, but we ask the question: When will it be easier for everyone and not just for strategic state investment? It is also worth noting that actually all experts emphasize that the state of transmission networks in Poland... These networks are heavily decapitalised, and this objective mentioned by the Member, namely the implementation of the Green Order, is a goal defined before the Polish State by the European Union. The European Green Deal is an EU strategy, a strategy that is not much like the state of Polish energy and, above all, requiring all kinds of intelligent solutions from us. The whole trend in prosumer energy, the inclusion of renewable energy sources, decentralisation of networks requires e.g. the deployment of a smart grid system that is able to stabilise capacity in real time, coordinate the production and use of energy from a large number of sources. Meanwhile, we in Poland are faced with such a problem that we have decapitalized transformers, that we have decapitalized networks, that we have the risk of blackouts, i.e. breakdowns, speaking in Polish, simply ordinary failures or power supply decreases, and that next to the winter power peak there is a summer power peak associated with the development of air conditioning installations in large agglomerations. These are very mundane problems faced by Polish energy industry. All you have to do is talk to anyone in the power industry who's working. Large national electricity groups, on which the government is based in the implementation of its policies and which often pretend to be market companies, although actually acting on order and in coordination with the government, are often inefficient in solving these problems. I don't mean just power grids, but I also mean distributors. So that I ask you to pay attention to all these problems. I ask for this and I appeal on behalf of investors who later have to use this supply of electricity so that they simply do not wash their eyes off the fact that we are now introducing the European Green Deal. Firstly, we are not at this stage, and secondly, it is tailored to the political challenges and expectations of the political establishment from Western European countries, not to the real investment challenges we have in Poland. At another point we'll probably be talking about CO certifications. There isn't much time to talk about all the challenges, so let me just mention that the age of the installation, mostly transformers, is the problem. All the characteristics of the network, its organization... It is clear from the state's energy policy that we will unfortunately have to switch to electricity imports, and therefore we will have to switch networks, which I regret. I think we should produce the electricity ourselves. Transport infrastructure will need to be modernised in terms of inclusion in the perspective of several years of nuclear power. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These are all challenges that require special solutions. Will the solutions you have presented respond to these challenges, it will show time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u24	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Mucha, near Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Polska 2050 wheel against the government draft law on amending the laws governing the preparation and implementation of key investments in the field of strategic energy infrastructure. Minister! I listened very carefully to the statements of my predecessors. In fact, almost all of us are saying the exact same thing. We must support this law, because the challenges facing Polish energy - the change that awaits this energy - are simply huge challenges. We are aware of how difficult we are in this situation. When you read reports of various think tanks or various kinds of organizations, you can see that they are actually absolutely... We've got work to do. Some data is scary. This law, or actually the mode of work on this law, somewhat as in the lens shows your approach to government, to how the state works. The lack of work on the Corridor Law has already been raised several times. Five years - there really was a lot of time for that. We have huge delays both in the case of energy-related investments and in the case of investments in transmission networks. I do not mention flowers such as Ostrołęka or that Mr. Obajtek is currently dealing with completely different matters than he should be dealing with. We're behind schedule, we're behind schedule, we're in design. Sometimes when I observe your actions, I really feel like you just don't realize the importance of the problems you're dealing with. The Spec Law, instead of normal proceding, is not the best way to ensure the functioning of the State either. I have the impression that if we were to compare legislation to investment, you would use scaffolding instead of building. This is unfortunately a country that consists of scaffolding, with prostheses, not construction. However, of course, we will vote in favour because the stakes are much higher. We're aware of what's going on right now. E.g. People come to me at the Parliamentary Office who complain that PGE Distribution has reduced by 80% its investments in Podkarpacie and Lublin. You can't understand that. Plus, there's some settlement issues, some payment problems. This cannot be explained in the current situation, there is simply no answer to that. This project amends also the Geodetic Law, and the Land Planning Act, and the Environmental Information and Protection Act, and the Regasification Terminal Act, and the Strategic Investment Act in the Oil and Transmission Networks Sector. This is all necessary, of course, but the state should not act this way. Changes concerning investment specifications that enable the preparation, implementation of the most important investments related to strategic energy infrastructure in Poland... It is about improving the investment process involving the necessary projects to ensure the energy security of our country. The project ensured the participation of transmission system operators - my predecessors said - in the planning process concerning inter alia. the adoption of local spatial planning plans and decision-making to establish the location of the public target investment. This is intended to eliminate the conflict of infrastructure for the transmission of electricity and gas fuels with other construction sites. And again, everything's fine, but where's the proper consultation with the local authorities? So again, we have some kind of prosthetic, some kind of circumvention of the normal and good functioning of the state. Let me repeat: we see many shortcomings in this bill, but because we realise how big and how urgent the investment effort is ahead of us, we will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u26	Thank you very much. Members have asked questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. As the first Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u27	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We're talking today about a serious bill that, you might say, is six years late. When you're facing some kind of challenge... Today, this bill is forcing... It's about windmills at sea or electricity coming from nuclear power plants. Unfortunately, until today the government has not declared the climate neutrality of Poland until 2050. This would be a milestone to mobilise all electricity plants, all networks, to carry out the tasks that are possible. We'd know where we're headed. Minister! I wanted to ask you: When will the government really declare achieving climate neutrality by 2050? When's he gonna confirm that? I also have a specific question about the Rybnik Power Plant. Minister, we have a situation regarding large flow networks in some way. [[♪ The bell ♪]] well-ordered. What about distribution networks? It's Silesia. Powiat więsławski, powiat rybnicki, powiat raciborski, Jastrzębie, Żory have trouble connecting to the network. When will that be? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u28	Mr Tomasz Nowak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u29	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, when you are asked about the future of Pątnow, with great shyness, you say that there may be a nuclear power plant there. I would like you to tell us clearly and decisively what is going on with Pątnowy and what is the perspective for Pątnow, because there indeed after the withdrawal of the coal power plant from brown coal we will have to deal with a free high-voltage transmission network, which will need to be developed, because if we do not manage it, it will be a sin over sins. Besides, such sins cannot be committed in other parts of Poland, because everywhere we will move from the coal energy economy (the bell) to a completely different one, including the scattered one. It's gonna require a proper network, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u30	Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u31	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The discussion on the specialty on strategic investments in energy should, first of all, be a reason for us to reflect on how the law is being made in Poland and how decisions are made. Unfortunately, very often in the form of specializations, without consultation, quickly, without reflection, and then decisions are taken in silences of offices, the basis of which is very often only political interest, not economic interest. In this context, ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible not to mention Ostrołęka, it cannot be asked whether we are going to proceed on all these strategic investments in as effective a way as we are on Ostrołęka. I ask: Who made this decision? Who's been accounted for? What are the costs? Who bears disciplinary and criminal responsibility for these decisions? I'm gonna need you to remember that. The decision-making process should be subdued, based [[♪ The bell ♪]] in discussions and arguments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u32	Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u33	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Any action that accelerates the investment process will have my support, because this process is taking too long today. It is important that we remember not only about companies of the Treasury, if we are talking about this process, but also about individual investors, because they are an important part of our economy. Polish energy needs investment. Of course, strategic investment also needs regulation. Let us remember that the network is still in very bad shape. I would like to point out that specialities are of course a good solution, but they should only be used under special conditions. I have a question, a request from the Minister, that you answer in writing the question which investments are delayed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and how long are these delays. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u34	Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u35	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, When we talk about Poland's energy strategy, we need to think about real transformation with full awareness. We were very concerned to hear from one of the ministers that Poland would not achieve climate neutrality. We are in danger of losing nearly EUR 4 billion from the transformation fund, which is designed to transfer Polish energy in a skillful, fair and responsible way. I would therefore like to ask about the regional context of the mine and the Turów Power Plant. We know that today the Czechs have challenged to the TSUE an important decision on concessions, on the operation of this power plant, but in fact, if you do not make a decision by which year Polish power plants are to operate, we will lose huge resources to transform in this respect. We would therefore like to obtain information and an answer on this matter. That's what thousands are waiting for. [[♪ The bell ♪]] employees of mining sites and power plants. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u36	Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The representatives of the PiS say that this law is intended to improve the implementation of key energy investments. But if you're ruining energy, we see it every day. An example of a power plant in Ostrołęka. Ladies and gentlemen, 1.5 billion PLN will be thrown into the mud from your taxes. Let us ask the question of what this results from. After all, at this moment we have the highest electricity prices in Europe, just because of your actions. That is why I wanted to ask you this, taking the opportunity that I have Mr Tchórzewski here, because you promised that electricity prices would not increase. Vice Prime Minister Sasin was very clear: prices will not increase. He said that to the citizens. What's the result? 10% increase in energy prices. I wanted to ask Mr. Tchórzewski about his words about the fact that electricity prices are rising, but in fact they are decreasing, because [[♪ The bell ♪]] Poles make more money. Do you hold up these shameful words all the time? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u38	Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u39	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Of course, this regulation, which first of all points out that all network investment investors should work at an early stage in the development of spatial plans together with local authorities in the development of local spatial planning plans, is crucial for the success of all investments and, above all, for safeguarding the interests of individual citizens. On the other hand, I would like to ask about the relationship of this law, among others. with the design of gas infrastructure for the potential transmission of hydrogen. Do you fit this into your plans? Secondly, I would also like to ask about the preparation of gas infrastructure for the revised Ostrołęk 2 project because the press announcements say that gas is to be imported through the Klaipeda port. Will the infrastructure and the projects proposed here (The Bell) aim to secure this transmission within the Polish gas infrastructure? One last question, Mr. Marshal. If you don't mind, I'd like to ask for cooperation between RES and cogeneration. Will this law contain certain regulations in this regard? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u40	Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u41	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question about investments in transmission networks, and I would ask for a written reply on how many of these investments are delayed. What are the reasons for these delays, both with regard to the investments that were included in this bill and those investments that you are planning to enter into this bill? The second question concerns the strategy of Polish Electro-Energy Networks in terms of cooperation with the contractors of these investments. Why have Polish Power Grids so far not reacted to the market situation, to the increasing costs, didn't annex contracts, didn't move deadlines? I have the impression that the policy is to force these agreements to be dissolved, which will not speed up the implementation of these investments at all. I would ask you to respond in this respect as strategically PSE plans to carry out these investments (the Bell) for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u42	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u43	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! At today's meeting, we have three draft laws on broadly understood energy, but even though we have these three projects, we do not talk comprehensively. Why are we not talking about energy sources when we talk about investment facilitations? When are we gonna talk about this? It's a perfect time, a perfect time to talk about it. I would like to ask the Minister to complete his statement on this very important issue by answering questions. I wanted to ask you about the Turów power plant and the mine in Turoszów. After all, there is a very serious threat, and the region does not know what to do next. Now that you're fighting for money from the just transformation fund, you need answers, you need decisions. I'm asking for specifics. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u44	Mr Jarosław Krajewski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When discussing the bill presented, we must not overlook the aspect of the energy security strategy. I think this is the key to understanding how these detailed rules are to improve the modernisation of transmission networks and how they will guarantee the energy security of our country. I therefore have the following two questions for Minister Naimski. First question. Is the bill presented consistent with the National Security Strategy, a strategic document signed by President Andrzej Duda in May 2020? Second question. As in the opinion of the Minister, the adoption by the Sejm of the proposed bill will increase the security of the gas transmission system [[♪ The bell ♪]] and the electricity system as a critical infrastructure in our country? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u46	Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u47	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The solutions proposed in the bill can, of course, affect... They will bring specific economic, social and environmental benefits and will probably speed up the process of strategic investment. They will also influence the fact that we will generate more renewable energy, including using marine renewable energy. However, the question arises in the context of numerous conflicts which accompany these investments. How does the Act safeguard the interests of those who are in conflict with these investments today? I'd like to ask the Minister to answer in writing. How does the Act safeguard the interests of actors, citizens and local governments in terms of strategic investment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u48	Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u49	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Today's Special Law introduces a number of facilitations for the preparation and implementation of investments related to the construction of strategic investments, including energy infrastructure. However, why does this law transfer the obligation to cover the costs of compensation for expropriation related to strategic investments from the State Treasury to investors? This is due to the fact that regulation also requires a way of calculating this compensation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u50	Mr Robert Obaz, the Left Club. There's no envoy. I'm here. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u51	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When discussing the issue of preparing the implementation of key energy infrastructure, it is important to ask for an increase in the share of CHP in balancing the national electricity system. Does the government intend to finance heat and power plants in order to modernise them and increase their capacity to produce electricity? That's the first question. The second question is very important from the point of view of the regions that I have the pleasure to represent, and it is about Bogatynia. We're at the final stage of building a modern power block there. And the question that flows from self-government, from residents, from employees: Is this block Isn't he gonna be undressed like the one in Ostrołęka? It is about PLN 6 billion which have been invested, and unfortunately this investment has not been properly prepared and (The bell) fuel for electricity production has not been secured. Will it not be demolished, as in Ostrołęka? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u52	Mr Adam Szłapka, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u53	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We're talking about investing in energy today, probably one of the key things for our safety. And this law on behalf of the club Law and Justice is led by Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski. Mr., who personally put the State Treasury at risk of losing PLN 1.5 billion in an investment in Ostrołęka, this gentleman is carrying out this bill. It's a scandal, isn't it? It just doesn't fit in your head. [[Applause]] How is it possible that such a bill is commissioned to a man who, by his decision, put the Treasury at risk of losing PLN 1.5 billion. Therefore, I ask government representatives to answer in writing to the question: What exactly are the costs of this completely missed investment in Ostrołęka, which is now being undressed, and how does this affect the price of electricity for each of us, for each of our citizens in Poland? 'Cause it's because of you and Mr. Poles who pay much bigger bills. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For electricity. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u54	Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u55	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. With experience in the functioning of this law, the implementation of infrastructure projects in the area of this large infrastructure, please tell us how many claims are made by property owners. Are all these things done to the end? Are there conflicts? What is the situation with local governments? Because it certainly brings such dangers to the implementation of such a difficult law. If you don't have that kind of information, I'd ask you to give it in writing. And another thing. I know this is not a matter for the Minister, but as far as low-voltage investment is concerned, today the development of the entire prosumer system and the production of electricity by citizens are at risk because we do not have (the bell) good networks. The networks are jamming right now. Do you take this into account in your plans? I've been interlocuting, and I've been told so over and over again that there's a huge success and there's nothing to worry about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u56	Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u57	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In line with the reasons for the draft law in 2020, the President of the Energy Regulatory Office agreed on a development plan to meet the current and future energy demand for the period 2021-2030. The timely implementation of the projects provided for in this agreed plan requires that investment in the electricity transmission system can be efficiently prepared. My question is, did this plan include electricity from non-existent power blocks in Ostrołęka? The expected effect of the amendments to this law, on which we are proceeding, is to streamline and simplify the investment process. I ask: Why is this at the expense of not consulting local authorities? Please respond in writing. Please also reply in writing to the question about the state of play of the investments mentioned in this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u58	Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The preparation and implementation of the investment on the basis of the transport specialty in question reduces the number of decisions obtained through separate administrative procedures. This also applies to the removal of trees and shrubs which can only be removed on the basis of the decision to establish the strategic location of the investment. Such an assumption is dangerous, even unacceptable. For many years in Poland, trees have lost an uneven fight against developers, investors, as well as public investors. They are treated as an obstacle to investment, not as an investment in itself. It arouses huge social protests every time, social discord. The awareness of the importance of trees is growing in Poland, especially in the struggle to slow down climate change, which is to be served by this law. It is about slowing down (the Bell) and investing in renewable energy. I have a question, and basically a request to withdraw the possibility of removing trees without separate environmental consents.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u60	Thank you. Mr Piotr Naimski will now speak at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u61	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There aren't many questions, I'll try to answer them. I understand I have five minutes, Mr. Marshal, right? So when I group some questions and answers, maybe I can start with how people and individuals - this has been repeated in different questions - are compensated for losses when planned or conducted investments interfere with their property. It's quite detailed in the bill. The bill provides for compensation. The law does not affect compensation in the general sense. She's actually dealing with procedures, she's dealing with administrative issues. As Mr Nowak said, under normal regulatory conditions at the moment, the preparation of the average investment takes an average of 56 months. We specialize in shortening this time to 19 months and this is the essence of these proposals, the essence of these regulations. With regard to Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski's specific question, we are transferring the burden of compensation from the State Treasury to investors, but this is one-off compensation, and investors are exempt simultaneously from the charges that are foreseen for a long time resulting from the lease of these elements. So that's something for something. That also simplifies the story. As far as this is concerned, this is a recurring issue - about the lack of power in the form of a draft corridor law, it is indeed so. Indeed, it is true that the Corridor Act would be very useful in Poland. Unfortunately, consulting solutions that would satisfy everyone in our country turns out - today we can say it - very difficult if not impossible. As a result, we are moving gradually and this series of special laws, of which we know, initiated by a road law, as one of your fellow Members has said, has its continuation. Each time, each amendment takes into account the experience of their application in these special laws. It is not that for the first time today we propose a special law and that therefore the list of investments It's something new, something that fell from the sky. No, we use the form of special law - I remind you - since 2015. She was adopted in previous governments - Platforms and PSL. We're just correcting it today. This is due to our six years of experience. Therefore, this is a process, what consists of the experience of implementing special laws, and it will be, already, an excellent material for thinking about a broader approach, i.e. the so-called. Corridor law. For now, we're focusing on practical action, so I'd like to say it. As far as the consultation of local authorities is concerned, this issue has already been raised in many questions. Firstly, the draft amendment was consulted and agreed within the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission - to make this clear. Of course, consultation with local authorities on specific investments must be carried out and conducted. Sometimes it is that local government or local government simply cannot understand the business that goes beyond the boundaries of the local government. There is really a problem then, such problems can be, therefore, for some of these lines, investments are proposals to supplement this amendment. It will help overcome these problems. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Marshal, may I have the extension, please? One more minute. Secretary of State in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Piotr Naimski: With regard to the number of conflicts that we have along the way during the implementation of these investments - it doesn't matter whether in electricity or gas - it is contrary to the appearances of real, acute conflicts when we have the opposition of the owners to the very end, there is not much. Luckily, there aren't many. There is a request to present them to you in writing, we will, but it is not wrong in this case, so I would say. Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, Pątnów as a place where we have an important source of energy, important for the country. It is worth reminding that this is a very large source, which is in the hands of the private owner. It has to be taken into account, and that's what we need to know. We also know that the owner of Pątnowa, PAK, applied for the connection of a possible 650 MW gas block. These are the investment decisions of a private owner, and otherwise it is so that when we plan to build nuclear power plants in Poland, we take into account places, and there are several or even several of them - it was adopted by the government in October and this is shown in the plan for the development of nuclear power plants in Poland - where we need to replace power plants that will be extinguished. Such a place is the Bełchatów and in theory such a place is Pątnów. The question is whether we're going to build power plants in two or three places, it's still ahead of us. The first one will be on the Gdansk Coast, which we often inform in other places. The marshal asked me to finish. I'm almost done, thank you very much. These questions, for which you asked for a written reply, of course you will have answers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u62	Thank you very much, Minister. Now the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u63	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Membership! I would like to begin by thanking all your Members and the Minister very warmly for their efficient and solid work on this law, both members of the governing coalition and Members of the opposition. Thanks to the fact that work on this law has been accelerated, our main system investments give a strong basis for Poland's economic development and implementation of the National Plan for Reconstruction. I would like to stress here, given Mr Bosak's statement, that strategic investment is at the same time the basis for making connections in the country in many places so that it can be built separately so that it can also be connected to the entire energy system. Without a good system of strategic investments, we will not be able to build or maintain an efficient energy system that would give the opportunity to power a company that wants to build its facilities or its production park in a given place in the country. The problems associated with this are very serious at present, because after communism we inherited a very damaged energy system. This is also the answer to the question of what should be done earlier. I would also like to refer to the statements of two Members, including Mr Szłapka, who was polite in a rude way to summarize me. I would like to stress that I am one of the few engineers among your Members, we are a very few. As far as this field of energy is concerned, I am a professional with 24 years of work in various places in energy. And I would also like to stress that in fact in Poland the system of building investments is a very difficult issue for the performance of the tasks of the state, because in fact the state responds, citizens report to you on electricity issues, while you as our predecessors were polite to privatise energy companies that became public companies. And now, really, in those places where the Treasury still has a majority, it may have a corporate influence, but where there is no majority, it has no right to influence at all what these companies are doing. You have to remember that. As a Member of the Law and Justice, I have always opposed this kind of action. I am a supporter of the market economy and I believe that it is the basis for our functioning, but, on the other hand, where you are responsible, this country should act, be able to act. Now it has these possibilities of action, especially in energy, significantly limited. I would also like to stress, since there were questions about electricity prices here, that I can say with satisfaction that at the end of December 2019 electricity prices in Poland were 6% lower than at the end of December 2015. These 4 years are the period of my work. As far as Ostrołęka is concerned, there is now a completely different issue, and there are different conditions at the moment related to the direction adopted, the coronavirus and the National Plan for Reconstruction. We'll just hear about how these investments are going to be divided. On the other hand, I would like to stress that both investments carried out - Kozienice, a large power block, two blocks in Opole, Jaworzno finished - and Ostrołęka were well prepared and implemented in agreement with the European Commission. This block was secured 2.7 billions, with the consent of the European Commission, of public aid precisely because we need to remember that we must also have a reserve of these inefficient often conventional sources of power, moving towards renewable energy sources, moving towards green order. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And these inefficient conventional power sources must exist. For this reason, the block of Ostrołęk was to perform this role. Ostrołęka is also intended to act as a reserve source for Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia in connection with the separation of those countries from Russian energy in 2025. Thank you, sir. So this is where the power plant has to be - I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal - it has to be. On the other hand, as regards the decision - this power plant would fully, so to speak, be tense and financially, and in all other respects, otherwise the European Commission would not have agreed to public aid for it. However, let us remember that the conditions have changed. Now Poland has now received additional significant money for a reduction of 11 years of carbon energy exit, from 2060 to 2049. For this reason, this extra money is so big. I do not participate as a Member in these decisions, but I participate in the legislative process. The government has made such decisions to go in this direction. In my opinion, given the amount of extra money, this direction is right. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u64	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. For the third reading of the project... In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the draft law amending the Act - Energy Law and some other laws (prints Nos 808 and 865). I ask Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u65	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Sejm Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets, I present the report of the committee, in print No.865, on the government draft law amending the Act - Energy Law and some other laws, Parliamentary printing No.808. The Sejm at its 22nd meeting on 9 December pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure referred the above draft law to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets for consideration. This bill will allow greater support for cogeneration sources. The project introduces the need to implement the National Reduction Objective as early as 2021. It also allows major energy sellers to pay compensation in the case of electricity prices. It is particularly important to extend the RES auction system until December 2021. This is linked to the accelerated implementation of the Green Order in Poland. The European Commission has agreed to this. The project suspends support for biogas installations at the same time. The biogas plants are finally gonna start working. Thanks to this act, the installation of smart electricity meters will develop. The bill concludes several years of work on intelligent software and improves the functioning of national energy markets. It is the starting point for the transformation of the entire energy sector based on its digitisation, smart grids and smart remote control meters. The Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets examined the draft law on 8 January 2021. 12 amendments were tabled during the committee meeting, of which the committee included in the report 9 and 3 amendments were rejected. In its report, Parliamentary Printing No 865, the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets recommends the High House to adopt the draft law annexed to the report of the committee. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u66	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. First Mr Witold Czarnecki, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u67	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice a position on the government draft law amending the Energy Law and some other laws, Parliamentary Printing Nos 808 and 865. The draft law entered the Sejm on 3 December 2020. It was addressed to the first reading at the Sejm meeting held on 9 December. The project was addressed to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets. The report on the work of the committee can be found in Seym printing No 865. Today's amendment to the Act - Energy Law assumes, as I mentioned earlier, among others. introduction of smart metering in Poland by 2028 to cover around 80% meters that will be remote reading meters of measurement. This is an opportunity for infrastructure development, to take a milestone towards creating new energy market standards in Poland. This will introduce new regulatory solutions such as: dynamic tariffs, as a result of which consumers will receive discounts for energy interruptions or for inadequate energy quality. This law will make it easier to change the electricity supplier. The timing of the supplier's change has been shortened. The law's priority is to protect consumers by introducing mechanisms to protect against unfair suppliers of contracts. They must be made at the company's headquarters. It will prevent distance contracts from being concluded, e.g. On the phone. 12 amendments were tabled during the committee meeting. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice and committee recommend that 9 amendments be adopted. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make amendments to the Marshal, which aim to clarify the proposed solutions and to supplement the provisions necessary for the proper functioning of the new data exchange systems from the meters and the new model of operation of energy storage units. They respond to the expectations expressed by the energy sector at the meeting of the Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets and the comments of the legislators, which referred to the necessary clarification. In view of the purpose of further work on certain issues, e.g. by hybrid RES installations, the amendments remove these changes in order to transfer this subject to further government work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u68	Thank you, sir. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Coalition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u69	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! So much time, so much work on this bill, and when the committee meeting started, it suddenly turned out that the legislators had their hands full. One amendment chased the other. These were ordinary legislative amendments, even those related to the stylistics of individual articles. This is amazing. But I see that this practice is continuing. It is amazing sometimes that the parliamentary project is better prepared than the government project. So that to improve, to improve in this respect - this is our request. We are proposing three amendments to this bill. The first is the amendment related to the central energy market information system and profiling, profiling of the consumer, the final consumer. As you may know, the problem of profiling is very important, as it actually reveals our behaviour, our response, our electricity consumption. It may be that when this data leaks, we will suddenly be discovered for all kinds of people gathering information about us. It's very dangerous. Profiling may also be introduced from the point of view of Union legislation, but provided that it is secured by the relevant regulations, so that this data leakage is not present. This first amendment therefore concerns precisely that you should issue such a regulation by 1 January 2023 until the Act is implemented. Interestingly, he proposed this, but as you can see very shyly, the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection, because we reached correspondence with the legislator, but unfortunately his comments were not taken into account. And our amendment goes against the request of the president of UODO. The second amendment concerns the following: namely, we, as Sejm, are not yet informed about the huge money, billions generated from the auction of CO emission rights. The third amendment involves a security system. It turns out that until now, when an entity has applied for a concession, the CEO of URE has examined, checked, verified whether this company is competent to obtain these concessions, whether it has adequate potential, etc. In the meantime, in this law, you want to impose in advance safeguards that may paralyze the emergence of new entrants and may restrict competition on the market. It was the same, remember, in the situation of gas warehouses, when you introduced such reservations, and as a result, the companies that traded gas lost. It seems that, in the light of these changes that await us in the energy policy of the state, it is very important that we make competition in this market bigger and not smaller. The President of the URE should have tools to secure the functioning and constitution, so to speak, of new companies in this market. Minister! Of course, we expect further changes in the Energy Law, because it is the law in the context of Poland's energy policy by 2040 - it seems - it should speed up solutions so that we implement this policy, although it is very inconsistent at many moments. We'll probably talk about it, but the point is that it's real and not just hypothetical. I'm handing it over to the Marshal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u70	Thank you. Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u71	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, the draft amendment to the Energy Law is a project that was probably very expected in terms of the energy industry and electricity and gas consumers. The only question is why this discussion lasted almost three years. This again shows that the Polish government is unable to think forward, it is unable to make quick decisions, and that it is not able to think that coal will serve us for 200 years, it has caused that these changes have not been made. It is indeed a great negligence, and today we will all suffer through it, even in the context of drastic increases in energy prices. And Minister Tchórzewski can curse reality and say: yes, they are lower than 5 years ago than 10 years ago, but the Minister knows very well that probably for the next 5 years these prices will increase by 50%, or maybe 100%. And it must be said to Poles and Poles: because of you, it is simply your fault. Today we also need to talk about the situation of energy companies. They mostly, when you look at their financial results, in short, are on the verge of bankruptcy. You've led companies to have a liquidity problem, like Tauron. You have done this through bad HR policy, because you simply employ people there who are completely unfit to manage Polish energy. You have led us to believe that various investment decisions have been made, which have cost us a great deal. I don't want to talk about Ostrołęka anymore, because we're probably going to talk about it again and again, but it's about investing in the famous Energa, which is today in Orlen. After all, it was also the money spent on these smart meters, that was spent completely meaningless. Energa was also on the verge of bankruptcy, and Mr. Obajtek, as President of Energi, led to this bankruptcy, and then, as President of Orlenu, bought Energa to save this company, of course. That's how you manage it. Your management is simply mediocre, passive, but faithful, loyal to political agreements, faithful to Law and Justice. And these are the only criteria when it comes to the operation of management staff in energy, because you simply removed real energy engineers from the management of Polish energy. As far as the bill is concerned, of course, it is going in the right direction. As I said, the Left Club sees the problem only in the fact that this should have happened 3 and 4 years ago and we lost billions of zlotys in terms of investment in electricity grids or even in energy storage. There's a question. The law also benefits consumers, finally regulates all these contractual issues, goes towards measuring the whole system in terms of electronic meters. The question is whether the costs actually are well-counted when it comes to the issue of carrying out this whole process and, in the context of this situation, to be clear, the situation of energy companies, it can indeed be a very serious problem whether energy companies can afford to carry out this process. Because just so we're clear, the cost of this trial will be included in our bills, in the accounts of all of us. What we are discussing here today will simply be included in the tariffs and will be included in the bills, because we will pay for all of this. The question is, do we know how much it will be and how much it will cost when it comes to estimates? The question is, what about distribution networks, because today half an hour ago, did we discuss transmission networks an hour ago? The question is, what about distribution networks, because today is a key issue. I do not know if the Minister and the Polish Government know that companies are regularly cutting investment costs due to the difficult situation. Therefore, if there are no distribution networks, then the Energy Law, in short, and the change of this law will not give anything. The Left Club will support this bill, but makes two amendments (The Bell) which I am making to the Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u72	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u73	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Speaking on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I would like to refer to this project concerning our Polish energy to a very wide extent. This project has been on the committee for quite a long time, and in the Sejm it was probably three or four times dropped out of the debate. That's how it is. We have a lot of problems with energy. There is no comprehensive approach to solving these problems, and without comprehensiveness we will not deal with this issue here, as evidenced by these erroneous investments, the lack of strategic anticipation. There's a lot of dynamics in the energy industry, everything changes from year to year, new technologies come in, new warehouses, new ways of storing electricity, and all this requires anticipating in time, tracking in which direction the world is going, what are the latest trends and what need to adapt to, because certain things cannot be blocked. This is what we had when it comes to renewable energy. Renewable energy has been blocked for many years, and today there are consequences that we must make up for these lost years. I will remind you of the issue of prosumer energy when in the days of the PO-PSL government we passed the Prosumer Act. And the PiS supported it. Later, after the government changed, everything was blocked. There were fixed tariffs. There is a good solution at the moment introducing discounts, but the question is why a prosumer that has 12 kW of installed power, and this is very little, is just to give 30% to someone who practically doesn't add any input. So that's also a fundamental question. Here I would say explicitly that the state of the spoils of prosumers who engage, very often invest in 100%. So there are a lot of things. Energy problems are prevailing today, so we may repeat ourselves, but this is very important and important. Intelligent counters, electronic counters, remote readings - these are important things. I think it may have been a problem 10 years ago, but as of today, technology is so advanced that it shouldn't be a big problem, it's a huge ease. But above all, it should be possible for the consumer, the owner, to access the remote reading. Why? He can then adjust electricity consumption, because in addition to those dynamic tariffs that should be introduced, and they are not yet there, it is about energy consumption, because he will be interested in saving electricity. Nor can it be that the state, energy companies, will be interested in making money. This can be seen even with the billing system that we have in the case of renewable energy, prosumer. That's how you plan to make as much money as you can. The system is quite complicated, so citizens, people get lost in all this, and it's hard for them to figure it out. But if we dig into it, it turns out that's the combination. An example of blocking and unreasonable conduct is a matter of windmills. The cheapest energy that can be gained today is windmill energy, pure energy. Under the influence of emotion, the famous 10H, this renewable energy industry, was blocked. There have been declarations that this will be fixed, corrected, but the majority of the government in this room does not want to address this subject, and the problem remains. We would have much more wind energy today, but it would have to be reasonable to approach it (the bell), and perhaps consumers would pay less because it is cheap energy. It started to develop well and everything was erased. That is why we need to be very sensible about all the changes and decisions we make. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u74	Mr Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u75	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Capitulation costs money. The capitulation towards the EU climate policy of each Pole will cost PLN 700 per year in each household in 10 years, ladies and gentlemen, and more than PLN 200 more in 4 years. Already in the course of the year, each farm pays an average of PLN 226 due to the climate tax, with the carbon levy. Let us say again and remind this speaker that Polish carbon dioxide emissions and even EU-wide carbon emissions have a negligible, trace effect - if any - on the climate of the world. That's less than 1%. emissions in terms of the entire Polish production in the world. Ladies and gentlemen! This capitulation towards Brussels results not only in the fact that electricity bills will rise dramatically in apartments, in companies, in companies. It also has a far-reaching impact on the entire Polish economy, on whether the industry will be competitive - it will not be because energy will be expensive - on our security policy, because all the time, for decades, we have actually had an intact topic of nuclear power plant. Tomorrow the Prime Minister will speak to President Macron. Another round of conversations. Whatever comes out of it, you don't know. We are going to be a huge importer of oil, gas, all other energy products that will not replace renewable energy sources. Of course, we are all in favour of a gradual sensible energy transformation, which will give Poland safe, clean energy. But what is happening today under Brussels dictation is simply an assassination on every Polish family, on the Polish economy, and even what is not discussed, on such an element of Polish social and economic life as heat and heat. They're already starting to be sold out, like the one in Zgorzelec, this process has already begun. Why? Because the Union, because emissions, because the cost is about to rise. We have to stand firm against this, not capitulate, as the PiS government does. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u76	Mr Krzysztof Bosak, also near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u77	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! We are here discussing a law that introduces intelligent meters, modern solutions. The Inkasent will not have to come home, it will be remotely known who used the energy, we will not pay the bills based on the forecasts, but on the basis of actual consumption. We can even find out that the smart meter will diagnose us, if we haven't accidentally gotten the power of poor quality, and we'll get a bonus for it. But what exactly is behind all these solutions? Does it make a big difference to a man, whether he pays on the basis of a forecast or actual consumption, since it's still a correction? Let's not kid ourselves, it's not gonna change our lives. The whole operation, on the other hand, really hides the rise in electricity prices. And this was said very clearly by the Minister who sat here, Mr President, that the Polish states could not stand, Poles would pay higher bills, the government withdrew from the bill which was to be evened out. Let us also answer the question of where these increases in electricity prices come from. This is because the European Union imposes a kind of criminal tax on us. This kind of criminal tax is CO certificates.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u78	Thank you very much. Now Mrs Joanna Mucha, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u79	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the opinion of the Polska 2050 wheel concerning the draft law - Energy law, prints no. 808 and no. 865. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, we will support this law because it introduces regulations that are needed and required by European Union law. True, it is implemented a little too late, but better late than never. The project adapts Polish regulations to the requirements of EU law. Many changes aim to strengthen the position of the consumer, which, of course, we support. I think it's very right. The project envisages the implementation of an intelligent metering system and provides details on the way to installing smart meters from at least 80% of consumers by 31 December 2028. Finally, we will be able to account for energy according to actual consumption and not so far - according to forecasts. Smart metering is also an excellent tool for energy management in the future, which is extremely important during the energy transition. And here I wanted to appeal to my previous speakers just to get some knowledge from those who have it, because that's what smart meters are all about, so you can just manage your energy consumption in time. The project enhances consumer protection. A central energy market information system will be set up to provide an information tool for consumers and will theoretically improve the change in electricity or gas supplier. However, there is no question of releasing price controls. The government is making all the changes that make it easier for consumers to operate on the market. A market that doesn't exist, in fact. The changes made could actually affect public access to better services and energy at lower prices, while after implementing the project we still have some kind of bang, where after entering the store it turns out that the shelf is empty and the product is only one, and in addition the road. And this is not the end of this strange situation, because we are about to discuss the abolition of the stock market obligation in the energy trade, which is going to be even less transparent and even more expensive. In addition to changes theoretically helping consumers, there are several important points that are worth raising. There is a lot of good in this project in terms of new storage regulations. It's a good thing that energy stores are finally settled. This technology will soon be crucial in closing the energy system based on renewable energy sources. Unfortunately, the project comes out of a worse committee because the definition of hybrid installation has been amended and raised from 3504 to 5256 MWh/MW/year the minimum total capacity utilisation rate of installed electricity. This simply means that the project in its present form cuts out the entire segment of small installations, including prosumer ones. Hybrid installations are to be large and expensive, according to the government. Unfortunately, in this form they will not be able to perform their function well, that is to stabilise the system at acceptable prices. A larger warehouse is simply a higher investment cost. It is worth going back to the original definition from print No. 808. It is also worth noting that although the project aims to adapt to EU law, the novel does not contain rules for the construction of charging points for electric vehicles. The Energy Single Market Directive makes it clear who can and cannot own such points. These may not be distribution companies, but it is at the moment that distribution companies are legally obliged to build charging points. We will not be able to accelerate the electrification of transport if we do not properly regulate the basis of the charging infrastructure. In promoting electromoblicity it is worth to start with obvious basics, instead of calculating how many millions of Polish electric cars will drive on Polish roads. As I said, of course we will support this project, knowing these two obvious shortcomings, namely, firstly, the wrong definition of energy storage, secondly, the issues related to the construction of charging points for electric vehicles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u80	Thank you very much. The Sejm has determined... Oh, I'm sorry. Now we have questions. 15 Members have asked questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. As the first Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u81	Thank you. Minister! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we're talking about the second act. We're about to talk about the third Energy Act, electricity and transmission systems, and we're also going to talk about RES. Minister! Shouldn't we start this discussion by discussing here, discussing Poland's energy policy by 2040? This is the document we're all waiting for. All of Poland is waiting, we should discuss this and then discover all these laws that are going in the right direction. It's not the government's idea, it's just the need for a moment. These are the actions of the European Union to lead us to climate neutrality. In this bill, Minister, there is an intelligent software system. Of course, it is the central hub of the energy market information system that is to be suspended. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Where? In Polish energy networks. In Polish energy networks, which act as a transmission system operator. I'm asking you why this system isn't closed or based, and it didn't go to the URE, which is a neutral regulator, and it could accept it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u82	Now the question is asked by Mr Tomasz Nowak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u83	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I tabled three amendments in the first part of the speech and I would like you to address these amendments and say whether you will actually apply appropriate safeguards for prosumers. What's this profiling protection gonna look like from your point of view? Will the OSD somehow control this resource of knowledge and transfer this information to the central system and delete it at the same time? Will the government only be in one place, or will it be in a few places? Are you protecting yourselves from leaks like this? And the other thing. I'm asking you to tell me what the CO issue is like right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u84	Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u85	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's an energy issue, a very important department. Whether we like it or not, we use it every day. In fact, we're kind of addicted to energy. Therefore, it is essential that these three laws are actually being examined today, and it should be preceded by a broad discussion on the whole energy policy of the country. Issues related to the protection of information about citizens - which we are also trying to take care of here through various laws - as it turns out, they also have a connotation with the Energy Law, because a system is being created that will gather information about the extent to which we use energy. This is extremely important information and they should be kept secret to the highest extent. And another, the second point, because not everything can be said, is a question of a certain stability in the area of energy law, in terms of incentives for society, for example in the context of the creation of photovoltaic farms or rooftop installations, the question (the bell) of the tax policy of the State in this respect. These are very important things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u86	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u87	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! I would like to raise the issue which Mr Kasprzak has already indicated, namely the increase in this limit with a 20% levy on the production of prosumer energy. With the installation of up to 10 kW it turns out that this is enough for energy needs and e.g. for charging an electric car, but already heating with a heat pump - no. I think it's wise to increase that limit. It would also stimulate the whole process, for example the electrification of transport. The second point is the question of energy dividers. It seems to me that consumers are right here, however, that regardless of the cost, it would be necessary to ensure that the measurement of heat consumption is real and not done through energy dividers. It's something that's being questioned by the citizens. They're writing us letters about it. It seems (the bell) that this issue should be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u88	Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Representatives of the Government! I would like to ask about the state of play of the preparations for the implementation of the third edition of the government program, my current. At the end of 2020, there were 450,000. Prosumers. Last year, 320 thousand were installed. photovoltaic installations. This programme has caused this speeding up of decision-making, a certain risk for citizens when it comes to home installations. Will my current also provide for the funding of these home energy storage units and home chargers? When it is announced, will the call for the third edition of the program begin? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u90	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u91	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Membership! In the last days of December a record has been reached in the field of energy production from RES. During the day almost 50% all needs were covered by renewable sources. Minister, I ask you to answer whether, in fact, as some Members of the opposition say, we are a backward country, because the figures show something completely different. I would also like to ask, Minister, how my current has contributed to increasing the renewable capacity of the system. What are the prognosis for this? How much can an average household save a month by having a rooftop photovoltaic system? What financial consequences we have as a country [[♪ The bell ♪]] with regard to the introduction of this programme in relation to expenditure in support of the programme? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u92	Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During the drafting of this bill, many organisations, many institutions, as well as many citizens have commented on the extension of the deadline by which the distribution system operator will be obliged to install remote reading meters. This proposed deadline, 31 December 2025, may prove difficult for companies to meet in the context of, inter alia, implementation. installation services, taking into account the impact on the market of the pandemic of Coronavirus. This effect can be felt in markets linked to energy companies in the longer term. Yes, among other things. to the Ministry and to the Sejm she wrote the Confederation of Leviathan. I have a question: Why didn't the government take this proposal into account, and why didn't it take into account the extension of the installation period (the bell) of counters, which it seems would be very appropriate? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u94	Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u95	Thank you very much. Minister! Here, in the bill, and especially in the justification, it is very nicely written, what prosperity this bill will introduce: the collector will not have to come to the consumer. But what does it do? Because there's this belief that we're paying not for really spent energy, but for forecasted energy, but it's actually balanced over the long term. What will be the savings for this? Is it because the collector won't come, that he won't be on the board, that the citizen will pay less? Answer me. Because one of the costs listed in the bill is precisely the fee for the deposit. I can't remember how much it costs for him to come, whether it's a subscription fee or what it's called. The second thing is the case (the bell), which is connected with... Mr Michał Grammar... I was running out of time, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u96	... The Civic Coalition. But I'm gonna use it again.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u97	Dear Marshal, Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Why in the 21st century? Energy law still does not provide for the possibility of digital contact with the energy company? Why does the Energy Law not provide for the use of digital personal evidence or trusted profiles? In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 5 you add 4c, which eliminates the possibility of concluding comprehensive contracts outside the premises of an energy company, while in the explanatory memorandum you also state that you do not exclude such contracts by telephone, which is quite common practice. So you're shutting down the channel. door is door, but you do not allow the use of proven methods, used even under banking law, or in the 500+ payment application system in return. This situation is strange, even the PKP has left you because you can already buy a digital ticket there, and recently also identify yourself with a digital identity card. All these solutions I'm talking about are promoted by members of your government, by members of the digitalization department. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u98	Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Smart metering is, of course, a challenge of our time. That's not gonna change. We're gonna get more and more of these solutions. For me, however, three elements are important here. First of all, it's about consumer protection. There can be no such situation - and theoretically it is possible - that there will be a leak of data that will be included... After all, there will really be data on almost all companies and almost all Poles. The second element. There must be such a solution that the consumer will be able to observe what costs he incurs at a given time. He's the one who's gonna decide if he can afford more or not. And most importantly, the third element, ladies and gentlemen: energy prices. The point is that we should always remember this most with regard to energy prices... It's about getting them to stop (the bell) eventually going up so much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u100	Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Coalition. There is no Member. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u101	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question about the future, next edition of my current program. Does the government provide for investment or government subsidies in energy storage, which should now be equipped with prosumers and which would allow prosumers to increase the self-consumption of the energy produced while reducing the burden on the grid? The huge increase in photovoltaic micro-installations last year, caused just by the editing of my current program, also generates a challenge for network operators. This increase was 558% and all last year as many new photovoltaic installations as was created by 2020. We now have over 400,000. micro-installations, and in nine years we're going to have 1 million of them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will there be changes in prosumer settlements, aside from the issue of storage itself? Will the changes in wasteland be considered and the government is considering introducing virtual prosumers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u102	Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As has already been said in this Chamber, there are serious problems with the investments of energy companies in the network, and I therefore have a question and a request for a written reply. This is the level of investment in low- and medium-voltage networks carried out by individual companies in the years 2018 to 2020 including plans for 2021. Smart meters, smart grids must be good networks, so we can't do anything without investing in the network. Second question. If you take into account the number of counters and expenditures that are associated with this, because the entire operation is going to cost about PLN 12 and 13 billion, the question arises: Is the government considering introducing the production of smart meters by one of the entities in Poland? Are there any conversations in this matter? Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u104	Mr Robert Obaz, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u105	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today we are talking about a certain energy balance, which is intended to ensure the stability of the supply of electricity to houses, apartments of Poles and Poles, but also for business. Today, electricity prices are much higher than in many places in Europe, where wages are also much higher. The Minister said earlier that these investments would allow energy companies to grow. My question is, we have heat plants that also generate and sell electricity outside. Does the government plan to create a program for the power plant that could convert present coal boilers into those that could be used to burn garbage? Self-governments, often the owners of heat and power plants, have huge problems with the disposal of these (the bell) rubbish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u106	Thank you. Mr Przemysław Koperski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Here, the speakers have already said that there is no debate on the state's energy policy. In fact, within 1 minute few threads can be raised in the question. We get residual data on what Polish energy is supposed to look like. One document speaks of wind farms on the Baltic Sea, in another... The Minister was just talking about plans to build nuclear power plants. And these are huge costs. I would like to know, first of all - because this is scrolling, this information is moving somewhere in public space, and we do not get answers - where you intend to store radioactive waste after building nuclear power plants in Poland and how many zlotys will you add to the electricity bills for Poles to collect the funds necessary to dispose of these waste in several decades. Because today this problem doesn't touch us, but it will touch our children, our grandchildren. I would very much ask that this answer (the bell) be in writing. First of all, it's where you plan to store these radioactive waste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u108	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Piotr Dziadzio, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u109	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! There are a number of issues here that really need to be regulated and answered complementaryly. Of course, I could start by analysing the amendments made, but we have not read these amendments. We will see them at the committee meeting without delay. Mr Nowak has made three amendments. As regards the amendment concerning information on CO money from auctions I will move on to the next amendments that have been made. These are two amendments that we do not know at this time either. As we look at these amendments, we will, of course, examine the validity of these amendments. Any amendment and any work to improve this law, which is a very important law, is important to us. We accept these amendments for analysis. There are a lot of issues that I would like to talk about, but I have a rather short time, so I'm going to try to say something objectively above all about what's in the program, my current, because this is the project that was most often discussed and raised here. It is because the Ministry of Climate and Environment plans - through the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management - to launch the second edition of my current program. It will be much more extensive, much wider, give more opportunities to consumers and prosumers, introduce storage opportunities, introduce smart metering opportunities, give us opportunities to manage the entire energy system. This project will come soon and we will be able to use it. That's one thing. As for the number of prosumers that have already benefited, the amount of power that has been delivered to the system, this is 4 GW. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the rapid development of prosumer energy. And there must also be solutions that will make it easier for prosumers to use whether from energy storage, whether from energy management at all through the system even chargers, which will also be included in the support system in the implementation of this project, the second edition of my current project. As far as implementation costs are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, this is a four-fold profit, because if we invest 1 billion, we get about 4 billion dollars on these investments that go into the economy. What else? All the elements of this law have been discussed by you, characterized, so I will not go back to these issues, because I see that you understand exactly what it is and how important it is to put this law into operation. Intelligent software and smart meters are really designed to increase the comfort of our citizens' lives, this is a key issue. With programmes that will support the development of smart meters, this is a clear benefit for the economy, for the consumer, and above all it is about security to the extent that the consumer will be able (the Bell) to look at his own energy consumption, to have this energy and to intelligently use it through the whole system he will have at his disposal, which will be running. Some of the things we've been asked to deliver in writing will, of course, be delivered. That's actually all I have to fill in and explain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u110	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u111	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Membership! Thanking you for your commitment to the law and the very substantive approach of the whole group of committee Members, I would also like to stress that this project is the culmination of 9 years of work on smart software and improving the functioning of national energy market systems. Starting with these solutions in 2012, I worked with many of you, then as a representative of the opposition, and I would like to stress that the fact that we have managed to achieve this is a great success, and I think that this project as a civilization and modernisation project will contribute to the development of our economy. I think that it will be easier to account and, at the same time, to save energy, to increase energy efficiency. I am convinced that there will also be a significant reduction in the number of interruptions in energy supply. I therefore believe that we have undertaken a large undertaking that should have positive effects in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u112	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Infrastructure Commission submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Law - Aviation Law, i.e. print no. 1007. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the Government draft law amending the Energy Efficiency Act and some other laws (prints Nos 957 and 1001). I ask Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u113	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Membership! On behalf of the Sejm Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets, I present a report to the committee on the Government's draft law amending the Energy Efficiency Act and some other laws, Parliamentary Printing No. 957. At its 26th meeting on 24 February 2021, the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets for consideration. The draft amendment of this law is the implementation by Poland of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on energy efficiency. The Directive imposes more obligations on Poland in terms of energy savings at the end of 2030. The Act makes the system of white certificates more flexible by introducing for obliged entities additional capacity to perform the obligation to save energy by financing so-called. non-refundable funding programmes. To settle heat, except so-called. Heat dividers in apartments, in shared parts will continue to be used to account for the area or volume of the premises. The Commission considered the draft at its meeting on 10 March 2021. At the committee meeting, six amendments were tabled, which the committee included in its report in Parliament's press No 1001. The Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets, after considering this project, asks the High Sejm to approve the draft law attached to the report. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u114	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mrs Iwona Arent on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u115	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the Government's draft law amending the Energy Efficiency Act and some other laws, print Nos 957 and 1001. The project was introduced because of the need to implement the EU Directive, so it aims primarily at implementing European Union law. The countries of the European Union present a variety of adopted systems requiring efficiency in energy savings according to the specific circumstances of national or national legislation. The EU revised Directive in 2018 imposes higher obligations on the countries of the Union, including Poland, on energy savings at the end of 2030. In Poland we have a system of energy efficiency certificates. This law extends the catalogue of entities obliged under the white certificates system to operators placing liquid fuels on the market for transport purposes. This will allow for a more even distribution of the burden and avoid increasing the level of the obligation to save energy to existing obliged entities, namely the energy sector, heat and gas. This law introduces additional possibilities for obliged entities to comply with the obligation to save energy by financing so-called. non-refundable support schemes consisting in connecting customers to district heating networks or exchanging heat sources with final customers. These programmes should accelerate the process of modernising individual heat sources, which is one of the main causes of air pollution in Poland. The Act introduces the so-called. alternative measures as a complementary tool to the energy efficiency certification system. These changes make it possible to calculate energy savings and report energy savings from investments financed by the state budget, local governments or European funds and other funds to the European Commission. The establishment of a central register of final energy savings is a good solution, the seal is a system for monitoring and reporting energy savings. Requirements for persons preparing audits are also refined. This will improve the quality of the audits carried out. The bill also introduces changes in other laws, in the Act on personal income tax, in the Act on Public-Private Partnership, in the Act - Environmental Law. They are adapted to the proposed amendment act. The Act - Energy Law is also amended, including the obligation to equip heat meters and water meters in premises to remotely read from 1 January 2027 and inform customers about the consumption of gas and heat from the previous year. Such an obligation arises directly from the EU Directive. The important thing is that this gives end-users the opportunity to track current consumption and thus can use heat more economically. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law is necessary and necessary, adapting Polish law to the EU directive, but above all it will improve the energy efficiency of the Polish economy. There will be a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, a reduction in environmental degradation, a positive impact on citizens' health and a reduction in energy consumption and thus energy saving. My club supports the project and we will vote in favour of the committee report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u116	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, Mr Paweł Pontylius.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u117	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a little ridiculous to say that this bill makes anything more flexible. I remind you that this law unfortunately retains the most archaic system to promote energy efficiency in Europe. The white certificate system is a system that was introduced in the UK in 1986. It can also be seen from the control of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2018 that this system has a huge number of flaws. The accusation that I am accusing the Ministry of Climate and Environment today is that, on the occasion of the changes to the directive, i.e. the need to amend national legislation, the Minister of Energy has not carried out a thorough analysis and has not introduced a new law which will make it really more flexible to identify, promote energy efficiency. Today it is a buffalo of companies that are obliged to buy white certificates and their redemption. Today it is a stock exchange at the level of a commodity energy exchange, it is a stock exchange also for those companies that decide on different types of savings, introducing different investments in energy efficiency. Today is the time: up to 60 months, when the URE approves that a given investment has really given a certain energy efficiency. This system is archaic and useless. You should have changed that a long time ago. Energy efficiency in the Law and Justice edition are two towers in Ostrołęka, which before the PiS has even built, must already destroy. The problem is that 1,300 million were drowned in this, and maybe the consequences will be much greater. Energy efficiency in the Law and Justice issue is the 5 billion that were taken out of energy companies to save coal to prove to the whole civilized world, contrary to the world that coal is the fuel of the future. Because today coal is not the fuel of the future. It is important that Prime Minister Morawiecki, Prime Minister of the Government of Law and Justice, de facto in European circles decided that even Poland will no longer insist on coal as a fuel of the future, that we will have a powerful revolution of transition to the green side of power. And you guys insisted. If it were so that you insist and pay with your own pocket money for this stubbornness, then maybe I would also approach it with understanding and find that the rich are free to do so. Only the problem is that the government and individual ministers responsible for energy in recent years are playing with the money of consumers, consumers, Poles. You drowned the money in Ostrołęka, which you're tearing down before it was built. You drowned money in coal, and it still needs billions of grants to function at all. You insisted on things that were absolutely contrary to world trends, contrary to trends in the European Union. Today you explain that the losses in the case of Ostrołęka result from the fact that Prime Minister Morawiecki went to Brussels and agreed to the green order. But after all, the world has told you for many years that there is no money for coal, no one wanted to finance it for you. You financed it actually from the money of energy companies whose presidents were employed by you, so they couldn't stand by you and say they didn't want it, and you financed it by banks, but by Polish, because no financial institutions have wanted to finance coal investments for many years. You guys insisted, you drowned the money. What's the end? Today, energy companies, which belong to the State Treasury, are in huge financial difficulties. They can't afford anything serious, no investment - whether to rebuild the network or to support citizens who want to build photovoltaic installations or installations based on widely understood renewable energy sources. You wasted a lot of money, you threw it in the oven with the coal, they burned down, they're gone today. All energy efficiency comes down to the fact that you were only able to add a few articles related to the revision of the 2018 Directive. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u118	Mrs Beata Maciejewska, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u119	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, we need energy efficiency very much, because in terms of energy, like renewable energy sources, it should be our energy policy. Let me remind you, my previous speaker also said that a few years ago Mr. Tchórzewski prided himself on the fact that 70 carbon wagons would be burned in Ostrołęka, talking about it as a measure of progress. The amount of coal to be burned in Ostrołęka was intended to show how we have a powerful and efficient energy system in Poland. It's been three years. Ostrołęka cost 1 000 300 thousand. zł. 1,300 million. $1,300 million, I'm sorry. And indeed today it is a monument to the competence of Mr. Tchórzewski and the government of PiS. As far as this law is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, it was indeed at the committee meeting that we discussed the fact that these white certificates were obsolete, even the representatives of the climate ministry acknowledged that this was the case. However, it was not agreed to set up a special subcommittee and to deal with these issues in a systematic way, in a way that would change these issues, since we are already working on them, in such a way that they are open to modern thinking about energy. That's not what's happening. There is also the question of standards in housing, in cooperatives. It is a duty for managers in multi-family buildings to provide information on the billing of heat costs and its consumption to local users. We discussed this at the committee meeting. Those who are from housing cooperatives, from cooperative societies, said that it was very expensive. We have these calculations: in the case of 8,000. housing, if this is measured once a year, costs 400,000. zł. If it had to be done for eight months in the heating season every month, it would cost 3,200 thousand. zł. So any apartment for calculating heat consumption would pay 50 PLN each month. Of course, as a Left, we understand the need for modernisation, the need to introduce these charges, the need to convey to the consumer how much energy he used. But is it really this way, or is it necessary to raise these charges? Therefore, we have once again a proposal to amend, a proposal to amend, so that the co-operatives, the owners of the apartments themselves in their communities can determine at what time this calculation should be received. One more very important thing at the end, ladies and gentlemen, which is connected to what I'm talking about. Energy efficiency should primarily work to the benefit of poorer people, because if they do not have to throw them into the mud whether simply through leaky windows or in any way destroy the energy they have to pay for, it is very important that in all programs, government laws take into account energy poverty. The prevention of energy poverty must be one of the main guidelines for taking up, creating different kinds of legislation. Thank you very much. I'm putting our amendment into your hands, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u120	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak on behalf of the Polish Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u121	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's the third law in the energy bill group. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Coalition of Poland would like to present its position. Well, many interesting things can be learned in this debate. Those who used to block renewable energy today announce great successes, how many prosumers have arrived. But this is thanks to people who have invested because people have long wanted to invest in renewable energy, produce themselves, and this is the trend. We have been talking about this for a long time, preparing the Renewable Energy Act, the Prosumer Act, only this has been blocked. December 2015 It's already been done. It's ready. The bill was blocked by the PiS, you blocked it. But can you? Yes, you can. Let me ask you straight: can you get smart? You can get smart and brag about it now, but it's people who have been waiting for it and it's their success. We need to continue making good decisions, not brag about how much renewable energy we already have. We don't have enough renewable energy. You have to do everything, not just pretend, because we're bragging about a little success. It was supposed to be 15%. at the end of 2020 2020 the year 2020 ended. Question: "How much renewable energy do we have?" Three, four years ago we heard here, from this tribune, that we've already exceeded that limit. Question: "Have we crossed or crossed?" Is anyone today able to answer the question of how much we have to pay for it? Saving energy is very important because this and lower costs, and less pollution of the environment, what we care about most is very important and important, only there must be conditions for this. The energy loss is enormous. We could look anywhere. It takes a lot of investment, because it can't be done by just warming up the building. The question of cogeneration, the use of central heat, let's call it industrial. This is also very important. I have an example from Niska, where there is a heat and heat plant, the Podkarpackie Region, the Niedan district and the town of Nisko. There is an estate of single-family cottages and they would like to use central heat because there is a lot of excess energy, but the district heating chain passes somewhere in a large distance. They've been running for years to get a knot like that so they can plug into it. The city's office doesn't have any money for that, it's not his job. The housing cooperative didn't, because they're single-family houses. The heat plant says no, because it's a big cost, we can't afford it. And that's how everyone smokes in their cottages, and about 1 km away -- I can't remember exactly now -- there's a big heating pipeline going through, there's an excess of energy. We're saving that energy anyway. Ladies and gentlemen! You have to do everything you can to use as little energy as possible, because today energy savings are less burnt coal. Maybe it's unpopular what I'm going to say right now, but it's less cars of this burnt coal, it's clean air, it's no need to wear masks, because in a moment, if we don't take decisive action, we're going to have to wear these masks permanently, regardless of the pandemic, there's going to be so much pollution. So there must be decisive action here, but there must be concrete action, not fake action, because we often boast about something that we don't believe in, or we blow the sand into modes to slow down certain actions, and then we say: it's a success, because we have 4 GW of renewable energy. Only if we go back, we've blocked the cheapest windmill energy, we've blocked it, and the effects of that are still visible today. A little RES energy, a prosumer energy, too, and now we're a success. If, then, [[♪ The bell ♪]] We are already talking specifically about something, let us be consistent, fully fulfilling these adopted tasks and what citizens are waiting for, because citizens have been waiting for it, because we can see the effect. They still want to invest and invest, but they need to be given conditions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u122	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Bosak will present the position of the Female Confederation Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u123	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This is the third energy bill we are discussing here, the second on the implementation of EU regulations, in this case precisely related to the alignment with the requirements of the European Union as regards the objectives to be achieved in the area of energy efficiency. While there can be serious doubts about both the objectives and the ways in which the European Union is imposing energy transformations on us, the very objective of achieving energy efficiency is essentially non-controversial and it is in our good common interest that we move towards energy efficiency. It is quite another matter to consider whether the current system of stimulating, improving energy efficiency, industrial installations or home installations is effective. My previous speakers paid attention to the anachronism of these white certificates. I would point out that this is just a kind of government funding program that an average person often knows little about. Perhaps industry or energy benefits from this - hopefully so - but I think that at the moment, in terms of energy efficiency improvement in the final consumer, a trend that we already have in construction plays a much greater role. This trend is precisely linked to the aim of improving energy efficiency, reducing energy consumption costs, reducing the cost of heating houses or buildings that are rising. It is even a kind of fashion for energy-efficient construction or in the extreme case for so-called. passive houses, i.e. warmed houses, insulated houses, designed in such a way that the energy balance is basically zero in terms of energy received and returned. These are, as I said, trends that are commendable. On the other hand, let's get down on the ground. Setting up a passive house in Poland is a luxury. Many Poles deal with much more mundane problems, namely that they live in houses that are not warmed up at all, and they do not have access to means to build any modern heating system. Even when I was walking around my neighborhood last weekend, I witnessed the transformation of fallen trees into wood, which will then be sunburned houses. In this way, just a part of Poles completes their energy balance. Not to mention smoking garbage and other pathologies, which unfortunately happen every day. What does that tell you? From energy poverty, of course. And this energy poverty will unfortunately increase, because on the one hand solid fuels are beginning to be combated, on the other hand, not everyone can afford these fuels seen as organic. Not everyone has a gas connection, not everyone can afford additional warming of their home. Electricity heating, of course, will also be more expensive due to rising electricity prices. I would like to point out that CO certifications So, on the one hand, we are updating the energy efficiency regulations related to, among others, energy efficiency. with thermomodernization, on the other hand, heat prices will rise, electricity prices will rise and out of nowhere hope. This means that EU policies and policies of the Polish government are set on such tracks, that although at the moment - I am looking towards Mr Tchórzewski here - the increase in energy prices has been spread evolutionaryly over time - just a moment ago you were bragging about the fact that these prices have not yet increased - you know well that the avalanche has already started and this will happen. As far as energy poverty is concerned, I do not have time to quote detailed data at the moment, but this concerns as much as 10% Polish households (Dzinek), approx. 3 million Poles. This is a problem that we need to start solving really.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u124	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Mucha will present the position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u125	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The purpose of this law on amending the Energy Efficiency Act and certain other laws is to implement the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2018/2002 of 11 December 2018 amending Directive 2012/27/EU on energy efficiency. This aims to achieve the national final energy savings target at the end of 2030 of 5580 toe. I am reading this formula because I simply want to justify that we will vote in favour of this law, even though we believe that this is a law far insufficient. Energy efficiency is our point of view. This is a right state not only for us Poles, but also for all people, because this is a chance for future generations to live, have a place to live in this world, have a chance to live a normal life. The aim of each government should be to stimulate changes in energy efficiency in every field, whether we are talking about construction or heating or energy use or transport or industry. I have the impression that when it comes to this particular government, which has been ruling in Poland for 5 years, we should probably not talk about energy efficiency, but about energy inefficiency, because in almost every field this inefficiency can be seen. This is inefficiency and energy, and every other unfortunately, this is what it looks like. Yes, I agree with my previous speakers that the white certificate system is obsolete. This is also indicated by the report of the NIK who was recently published. Indeed, we should use much more modern tools to achieve the desired effect in terms of energy efficiency, but unfortunately there is no such proposal in this law. When it comes to energy poverty, which has been mentioned several times in the statements of my predecessors, energy efficiency actually responds to this problem. Energy poverty can be prevented by increasing energy efficiency, but according to the authors of the bill, projects of co-financing will meet with a minimum of 25 000 interest annually. customers replacing solid fuel furnaces with gas boilers and 5 000. customers exchanging exploded gas boilers for new, higher energy efficiency. This will be achieved in the perspective of a 10-year exchange of about 300,000. heating equipment. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It's not enough. All you have to do is compare those 10 years and 300,000. heating devices to the number of still functioning cinderellas or the number of households that are not connected to the network heat, and also to take into account the lack of investment in network heat, and it is said that changing the heating system in Poland is a cost of 40 billion PLN, estimated to be such money. So if we're talking about 300,000 here today. heating devices in 10 years, that's it. It's just some sort of aberration. You praise yourselves as the government of PiS-owski with renewable energy, the fact that the power is growing, that the number of installations is growing. Yes, it is, but I wanted to tell you that this is a road through torment. All those who are now installing these installations simply report the road through torment, a dramatic road related to bureaucracy, with paperwork, with permits, with the assembly of the one which does not occur immediately, only takes months or even years. As I said, we will support this law because, for example, it introduces many definitions that are needed, i.e. final energy, liquid fuel, fuel operator, the marketing of liquid fuels. These are the things you need. These funding models are needed based on ESCO or other solutions that are in this law. But this is a far insufficient project, certainly not facing the problem that we are facing today - not just us, but I think we are the most. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u126	Thank you very much. That concludes the introduction of clubs and wheels. 16 people signed up for the questions. Who among you would like to join, this is the moment. If not, I will close the list of Members while setting the time for the question - 1 minute. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski will be the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u127	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Well, energy efficiency should be one of the pillars of Poland's energy transformation, not in 2021, only 6 years earlier. You have been buying coal assets from foreign companies over the years - an example of a power plant in Rybnik, 4.5 billion, and a power plant. You bought it, and now you're packing more money for Poles to upgrade to turn this power plant into a gas power plant. Today we are dealing with another law, when this country again sets up a central register, when you set up new investments, when you tell Poles: pay, pay. You've been paying inefficiently for six years, and this is your efficiency. If you didn't do anything, then at least the Poles have money left in their pockets. You took the money, wasted it, bought it, now modernize it (the bell), and before that foreign companies that managed it would have done it. Today it's the Poles who pay for it. Minister, to your question, have you calculated how much electricity will cost in two years? How much longer will the electricity and thermal energy we're talking about in two years? Tell the Poles it's 50%. Thanks to your carelessness, waste, inefficiencies over these six years, they will pay 50%. more for electricity and heat. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u128	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u129	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Three times 20, including one 20, is designed for energy efficiency. I ask you to tell me how this energy efficiency for 2020 is, what are the estimates you have for these coming years and the instruments you want to use to make it really happen. Is the white certificate system the optimal system? I'm asking because we see that these solutions may be a little sham, i.e. They don't give a real picture and they don't have the power to save energy. The most expensive energy we have right now is thermal energy. There should be a thermomodernization of buildings so that we can have as lower prices for this heat energy [[♪ The bell ♪]] And to make it work. Is Clean Air a programme that will be developed by you? And are we going to continue with the thermomodernization bonus? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u130	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u131	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have just found here such information in the form of a graph as the energy prices given by Energy Life in February this year. It seems that the most Euros for megawatts are paid in Poland, the least in Spain. That's what this map looks like. And, of course, there is a very valid question about how this process will go further, taking into account all the other issues, especially our commitments we have made in terms of the emission reduction process. But the cheapest energy is this energy that is not consumed, and therefore all energy efficiency processes are extremely important. I would like to ask how the Ministry intends to strengthen the issues of efficiency improvement in the public sector (the Bell) because the public sector is obliged, among others. directives to make this process here efficiency was particularly stimulated by the State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u132	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski will now ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u133	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Representatives of the Government! In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 of this law, in amendments to the Act - Energy Law, a new article is introduced. 45c, which obliges owners and managers of multi-family buildings to provide free of charge every month - so far such a record has not been available - information on the settlement of the costs of purchasing heat and the consumption of hot water. This is to be done once a month when reading is done by remote devices. This means an increase in costs, because it cannot be done costlessly. External companies often do this. As Mrs Beata Maciejewska said, in the case of 8 000. The annual cost of housing is 400,000. When we increase it seven times, eight times it costs 3,200 thousand. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, I have a question. How to do this free of charge, without cost to the owners of these apartments? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u134	Thank you very much. Now I ask you to ask Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u135	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The Act amending the Energy Efficiency Act introduces the so-called. alternative measures as complementary tools to the energy efficiency certification system. I ask you to explain what it will be like to calculate the energy savings and why it is introduced. The question is that it is necessary to facilitate the communication of this information to a wide range of representatives of the inhabitants of multi-residential buildings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u136	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u137	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed law introduces an amendment to the Act - Energy Law concerning the obligation on owners or managers of multi-site buildings to equip heat meters and water meters in these buildings with a function enabling remote reading by 1 January 2027 and the obligation on gas and heat suppliers to inform the recipient of the amount of gas and heat consumed by that recipient in the previous year, in line with the obligation of electricity suppliers. Please answer the Minister in writing to the question: Does the government envisage providing financial assistance to cooperatives, managers and property owners in this matter? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u138	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland, to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u139	Dear Marshal, Minister! On behalf of the Polish Coalition, I want to ask you a few questions. We're discussing energy efficiency. This is due to the loss of electricity, heat. The cheapest and the least loss-making solution is the production of energy on site by the citizen, by the consumer, prosumer. That's what we should be trying to do. There are no losses resulting from the transmission of heat or electricity. This is important, so we need to support all these directions, not stick to the minimum - we have to do 15% And it's gonna be a sacred thing, Constans. No, people need to be helped to invest in renewable energy. We have so many unused roofs. This energy can be used for heating. Right now, there are possibilities to accumulate energy in buildings, treat them like batteries. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's warm. It's all there already is. The production limit for renewable energy should be increased. That is what we are proposing and we will make proposals. The housing communities can also produce energy, then use heat pumps. Everything will be in the loop. Do we have savings? We have savings. Do we have cheaper energy? We have cheaper energy. Are we helping people? We help people. Turns out you can do anything, you just have to want. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u140	Thank you very much. Now I ask Mr Przemysław Koperski to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! The planned Energy Efficiency Act affects a number of issues. It affects both good things, good solutions and bad things. He simply doesn't mention or introduce some. It's a good thing you're introducing an extended formula for ESCO-type companies. That's a good direction. It's too bad you're not solving the white certificate problem. In your explanatory statement, you say it's wrong, but you don't answer the question of why it's wrong. I'll tell you why it's bad. The system that your predecessors created was imperfect, but somehow it worked. Now you've just ruined it and entrepreneurs, housing cooperatives, those who invest money, have to wait nearly two years or over two years to get a white certificate. The price of white certificates will rise - you write about it - and you open it up to a new sector, supporting the guidelines from the European Union, which say that the fuel sector is to be (the bell) entitled to use white certificates. In Poland, the fuel sector is Orlen. Is Orlen gonna make money out of it, or is someone else gonna make money out of it? One last thing. It's what you're not talking about. If you'll allow the marshal, 15 more seconds. You consistently ignore the issue of investors receiving funding for the exchange of gas furnaces for renewable energy sources. I would very much ask you to answer in writing the question: Will it be possible to obtain funding in Poland for the exchange of gas furnaces for renewable energy sources, e.g. for heat pumps? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u142	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Obaz, Left, will now ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u143	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If we're talking about energy efficiency, we can't just bring it in to measure it. The measurement offers opportunities that, in combination with other things, such as mini-voltaic installations or much greater involvement of heat and power plants, which could work much more efficiently, create energy efficiency. The earlier two laws we have discussed here should be adapted and included in the whole plan, as you can see, so that at the end of the day this energy that we are downloading from the grid, whether it's energy or heating, is optimally used. Here's my question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today we have one, two and three laws that we're investigating. I have the impression, listening to the club's comments, that they will be accepted. Does the government plan to help, increase resources to help entrepreneurs, proverbial Kowalski and local governments who could invest money to optimize their own networks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u144	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u145	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We're discussing energy savings, the new law that's going to lead to this. At the same time, the government presented the National Reconstruction Plan for a general consultation, a national plan which divides the Fund for Reconstruction. I'd like to ask you about the correlation between these two documents. The National Reconstruction Plan provides for the most expensive form of energy generation. The government plans to spend EUR 6 billion from this Fund for Reconstruction on wind farms in the special economic zone of the Baltic, but I do not see in the National Plan for Reconstruction cheaper renewable energy sources in which the government would plan to invest in accordance with the provisions of the Act on which we are currently proceeding. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There is no investment there, at least I do not see them in this National Plan for Reconstruction, in micro-electricity or in other forms, cheaper. How do these two documents feel about each other? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u146	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Energy efficiency and energy saving should be a priority for each government. Unfortunately, the Polish government is not. We don't just have big energy losses today, we have huge energy losses. If we want to change this, we must absolutely support both proverbial Kowalski and various kinds of companies. We need to allocate funds to renewable energy sources, to green energy, but also to so-called renewable energy sources. passive houses. Maybe even these passive houses are a dream for some people. The buildings should be completely warmed up. There's money for that. The European Union will spend enormous money on this. It is important to create a climate in Poland so that money is also available in our country to support such initiatives. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If we do this, we'll have cleaner air, we'll have much more aesthetic buildings, and we'll have fewer sick people in hospitals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u148	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska a question. There isn't. So, Mrs Zofia Czernow. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! We've been discussing energy for over three hours now. There's a third bill. No state energy policy emerges from these projects. These are separate projects and each of them has many flaws. There's no regulation. Too bad, I'm afraid. We should use this time for comprehensive regulation, to discuss the energy policy of the state, which should bring great benefits to Poland, the economy and people. I would like to ask, by going to this project, why energy savings are not fully regulated in this project. Why are not many necessary changes proposed to improve and accelerate energy efficiency? [[♪ The bell ♪]] When will the government propose a comprehensive project? Are we just gonna adjust it a little bit? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u150	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Of course, the bill goes in the right direction, and this is far too little. Taking advantage of this opportunity today that we are debating one of the elements of the state's energy policy, which is also related to reducing its environmental nuisance, on the occasion that there is a minister representing Solidar Poland, Zbigniew Ziobro, I would like to ask, Minister, how is it with this conflict, which in the United Right has flared up for good. Is this just some smokescreen about the problems you've been experiencing for a long time, or is it a substantive dispute? And I would like to ask if there's any chance of solving it, because I don't see the state's energy policy very well, the concern for improving the air condition that it directs, as we know, every year to the tomb of 40 thousand. Poles, [[♪ The bell ♪]] If, for the next two years of your term of office, you continue to argue willingly with the Law and Justice. Is coal supposed to be part of the state's energy policy or not? I would very much ask, preferably in writing, for a comprehensive answer in this regard, whether politics will continue to obscure common sense in Poland for your governments or not. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u152	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Wojciech Saluga, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u153	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! In the Silesian Voivodeship, where I live, such masks as I have on my face should be worn not only because of pandemics, but also because of air pollution, smog. Cities such as Żywiec, Pszczyna or Rybnik have become symbols of this dirty air, and these are not the worst places. These are simply the places where these measurements are made, and there are even more places where they are not done. We will undoubtedly not solve the problem of smog if we do not solve the problem of energy poverty, because it is the poorest people, those who cannot afford expensive heat, expensive energy, burn in old houses in poor quality furnaces and what will undoubtedly contribute to the effect of smog. This bill certainly won't make the electricity cheaper. There will be a number of charges that will be passed on to the final consumer. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These are good solutions, but these charges will be carried over, and galloping electricity prices will make poverty even more expensive. And if billions were thrown into the mud in Ostrołęka, for example, to fight this poverty, it would certainly be effective. Does the government see this poverty, or will the government compensate those who cannot afford to pollute the environment because of this poverty? Does the government provide compensation for such people? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u154	Thank you very much, sir. In this list, the list of people who are written to ask questions has been exhausted. I am now asking you to answer this question by Mr Jack Ornament, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u155	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank you very much for the concern of the representative, as I recall, of the Polish People's Party, regarding the Solidarna Polska Group. It is good that you pointed out that the discussion is in a substantive manner. I understand that this is a different standard than in the opposition, because I think that this is not the case. You can learn from the United Right, how to talk about important things. But I am returning to the merits of the speech and this discussion that is currently taking place in the Seym. As for energy efficiency, I think we all agree. Moreover, the committee vote shows that the majority is in favour because 26 Members voted in favour, one Member abstained. This is a very good sign that we can proceed with a law, which is primarily the result of the implementation of EU legislation, which is intended to ensure that the standards which are linked to the revision of the 2018 Directive are met. I would like to refer to Mr Pontylius' speech, which is not there, but he is probably watching whether he is interested in this issue. Indeed, I agree that this self-criticism is very important. I appreciate that, as a representative, the person who ran from these letters or is connected with the Civic Platform, criticizes the solutions that came into force in 2011 and have been in operation since 2013. So I am pleased that he can criticize the governments of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. As for white certificates, we are at a time when we can sum up the whole system, how it works, because by 2020 this system... We have a base settlement period, so that's why a special team was created in the Ministry of Climate, which will take care of, among others. of course, the evaluation of white certificates and possibly prepares new solutions. Partly already in this project They're here. To answer questions, I would say that most of them were not directly concerned with this project, so it is difficult for me to refer to topics that concern other vice ministers or go beyond the remit of the Ministry of Climate and Environment, so of course they should be addressed to the relevant ministers. As for meters and heat meters, this is a more economical form of remote reading than a physical collection of information. This is a more precise form, so there will be savings here. To the question of Minister Tchórzewski, if possible, Minister, we will answer precisely in writing because this would require a longer presentation of the whole issue. As a matter of principle, with regard to the questions that have yet to arise, related to efficiency, of course, as I have already mentioned, also to other issues, not only the Ministry of Climate and Environment, they have gone beyond the issue of this amendment. So that's where I'm gonna end up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u156	Thank you very much, Minister. The rapporteur, Mr Tchórzewski, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u157	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Membership! There was a lot of talk here about energy, but this law also focuses widely on heating. And here's the big problem. This problem is due to the fact that we are strong on the title in relation to many countries of the European Union. We lost 50 years. We have such constructions where to adapt to this directive, and we only have 2030, we need to make many, many changes in buildings built at that time, which are still inhabited in Poland. And we have to face that they are not energy efficient and heat efficient. Therefore, thanks to this law just to settle heat outside the so-called. Heat dividers in shared dwellings can continue to be used on the basis of the area or capacity of the premises. So yet it will all be half-solved, but simply our housing cooperatives and many housing communities cannot afford it right now to carry out such far-reaching modernizations of our buildings. And that is why these actions of ours must be divided over time and spread over time. The same is true, as we talk a lot about it here, fascinated by the fact that we have something extra, and also coal and other things. Well, this transformation must be evolutionary, too, because... I think those who spoke and said that we were too slow to go, that it had to be done faster, they did not think that they wanted to plow Silesia and lead to such problems throughout Silesia, which have been present for many years in the former Wałbrzych region. We have to remember that from another ceiling we have started and on another level we are, but we manage and walk quite quickly. When it comes to speeding up the new green order, we need to remember that these are things that are getting more and more expensive. We are now saying that at this stage we are replacing carbon energy, for example. Gas energy. There's a lot of savings in emissions here, but if we start replacing these newest coal plants... In them, emissions are only a dozen percent higher than gas emissions. And the gas is temporary, too. So, when we are in the European Union, we have so many advantages that we sometimes have to reconcile ourselves and for additional costs. But it is important to remember that this transformation is extremely difficult for Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u158	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Health Commission has submitted a report on the draft law amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of Infections and Diseases in Human Being, print No 1011. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report of the Education, Science and Youth Committee on the draft law amending the law - Education Law (prints Nos 464 and 962). I would like to ask Mrs Mirosława Stachowiak-Różecka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u159	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the draft law amending the law - Education Law, print No 464. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above draft to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth for first reading on 7 July 2020. The Education, Science and Youth Commission, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meetings on 26 November 2020 and on 23 February 2021, invites the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u160	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice will be presented by Mrs Mirosław Stachowiak-Różecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u161	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project is a parliamentary initiative that really responds to social expectations, expectations of all interested and involved in home education - all of you remember that a few years earlier we had made changes - and responds to the voices of those who sought to watch over the issues of fraud, of course, because that was the intention of change years ago, but to appreciate and note, to support freedom simply. This project, of course, reduces bureaucracy and increases funding, but what's most important - the applicants themselves say so and notice it - is precisely finding such a golden measure: on the one hand, maintaining this rigour and ensuring that fraud is not, on the other hand, open to freedom, the possibility of deciding on their own children, the choice of their educational path. As they say, in this respect, we have succeeded in working in the committee on this project after the changes have been achieved harmony. Thank you so much for that. The committee work was really fantastic. For all our projects to work so well - that is what I wish to all of us. Of course, the Law and Justice Club supports this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u162	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will address Mrs Kinga Gajewska. And then Mrs Claudia Jachira.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u163	Dear Marshal, High Seym! First of all, I would like to stress that the Civic Coalition is in the position that it is the parent who should choose a school where the child will carry out the obligation to teach at home. Before 2015, i.e. before the PiS came to power, there was full freedom in home education, in terms of both funding, pedagogical and psychological guidance and lack of regionalisation. It is the PiS, and it is you, Madam Member, who introduced a school restriction. It is to be located in the area of the voivodship where the child lives. Secondly, this country, PiS, you have limited your opinion to public facilities. Thirdly, Mrs, your decision, the first budget decision on education is to cut the financing of home education by 40%. You have said many times that a parent should decide about education, but when you came to power, the situation started to look completely different. The Civic Coalition by the mouth of Mrs Krystyna Szumilas has tabled amendments on home education - it was exactly an article. 37 - to leave parents free to choose how to teach their children. And then you didn't listen, and today you're pretending to be heroes, undoing the laws that you've tightened up. This tightening of the rules allowed citizens' rights to be properly acquired, freedom, freedom to choose the school they work with. In addition, these provisions introduced discrimination. Namely, all families, parents and children living outside Warsaw, apart from Poznań and outside Gdańsk, were discriminated against also families from the electoral district of the Member of the Commission, discriminated against voivodeship in which there are no schools with experience in cooperation with parents in the field of domestic education, were discriminated against families of religious minorities who were denied the right to cooperate with the only institutions in the country which are located precisely in another voivodship than the one in which the child lives, and were finally discriminated against families with children with disabilities who had benefited from cooperation with the institutions they had chosen. Over the years, you've had to hurt so many social groups that I've just exchanged so that I can get some sense into my head and restore myself to every young Pole's rights. Now the second part, in terms of Polonia, will be presented to Mrs Claudia Jachira. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u164	I would like to ask you now, Mrs Claudia Jachira.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u165	Mr Kaczyński, President of the Committee. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When you look at the fate of the law amending the article. 37 laws - Education law talking about home education, it can be seen that the ruling team itself creates problems and then, after a few years, withdraws from them, unfortunately only partially. I am glad - and it is good that you have withdrawn from this - that the child who wants to study in the home education system does not have to live in the area of the voivodship where the school is located. And it will be very comforting for parents that they will not have to join the opinion of the counselor, as my previous speaker said. On the other hand, I regret that you have withdrawn from the original provisions of the parliamentary project contained in print No 464, which regulated access to home education for Polish children living abroad permanently. First you promised it to Polonia, and quietly you withdrew from it at the subcommittee meeting. That's why I call on you to restore these records, bring them back. Adding this to the bill will guarantee that schools in Poland will receive part of the subsidy, thanks to which they will be able to save children for home education, thus teaching Polonia Polish language and knowledge about Poland. Polish schools are most often in larger centres, while very many Poles live in distractions and do not have access to these schools. In these cases, the inclusion of Polish children in the complementary system of domestic education is very necessary. Polonia living abroad has Polish citizenship, participates in votes, is often very involved in our country's affairs, and should therefore have easier access to home education. So once again, I call for the original printing record 464 to be restored. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u166	Thank you very much, Member. The position of the parliamentary club Left will be presented by Marcin Kulasek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u167	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We live in special times. For a year, millions of Polish students have been studying at home. You might ask what the government has done for hundreds of thousands of children who don't have a laptop at home or have one computer in three or four, or when the quality of the Internet connection makes it impossible to connect. This is not the case for the project submitted, it focuses on a narrow group of students receiving home education. Domestic education can provide opportunities for carrying out interesting experimental educational projects. Such developments develop in Poland and should be protected by the state. On the other hand, in many countries domestic education is a front for the activities of various religious fanatics who want to isolate their children from modern society. It seems to me that Minister Czarnek and his crew have a lot of understanding for these kinds of environments. Let us be clear: domestic education should be an exception reserved for situations where it becomes necessary and should not be promoted as an equivalent alternative to school education. The process of socialisation and training of social skills, cooperation in the group is equally important at the stage of school education - if not more important - as a purely teaching process. We do not want to deprive parents of their right to choose, but we do not want children to take away their right to psychological and pedagogical care. Parents have the right to choose, but the child has the right to care for specialists. We do not accept a situation where children will disappear from the system. There were too many such accidents during the COVID-19 pandemic period. We don't need new ones. There's too much heartbreaking domestic violence to make you look away from home education. The State must not be blind and passive, it must not give back the tools it has. Therefore, on behalf of the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left, I make an amendment which removes the obligation to have an opinion from the psych-pedagogical counsellor in the process of choosing the path of home education. This is another bill amending the education system in Poland, which is introduced as a parliamentary project, without public consultation, but also without inter-ministerial consultation. Did the Ministry of Education fear that some ministry might have reservations about the ideas of the Ministry of Education? The designers' ambitions were pretty big. In the course of the committee work from the original project, a modest dubush was made, but it also requires correction, further weight loss. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Left Club's position on the bill depends on the vote on the amendment we have tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u168	Thank you very much. Now I ask Mr Dariusz Klimczak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The purpose of the regulation is clear and is mainly intended to correct the errors that Law and Justice committed in the regulatory area some time ago. It is only a pity that these regulations are not extended and no more errors are fixed. On the other hand, the proposed changes are mostly right. We support this because the abolition of restrictions on school choice due to the voivodship - it had to be changed. As for getting counseling opinions, we know that everyone has divided sentences. On the other hand, financial issues should also be regulated. As a club of the Polish Coalition, we regret that matters concerning Polonia have not been dealt with properly, especially since this regulation is carried out by the Law and Justice, which repeatedly referred to Polonia. We hope that time will allow this, as with this regulation, that the Law and Justice will also want to correct their mistakes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u170	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Confederacy will be presented by two Members. First, Mr Krzysztof Tuduj and then Mr Artur Dziambor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u171	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is good to comment on this submission, because in principle it is good, beneficial and rare to submit the Law and Justice. It unscrews the regionalisation previously introduced by Minister Zalewska. So that the PiS heroically corrects its mistakes. He's recuperating. When it comes to pedagogical and psychology counseling, it is a good thing that there is this resignation, improved access to home education. Unfortunately, the access of Polish people abroad, but also Poles on the Kresach, is forgotten about them... In the original submission it was and I hope that it will be included in this project. This is particularly important now, at a time when in Belarus we have the impact of the Lukashenka regime on Polish education. By the way: due to irresponsible foreign policy, Polish interference [[Applause]] The government's on the case. And now it is revenge on Poles who live in Belarus. But, in principle, the idea of home education is very good. We do not share such thinking as the Left, that the state must have a hand on everything, keep it stiff and do not allow only Marxist projects to be carried out. We pointed this out in our activity when centralization, regionalization was introduced as Minister Zalewska. ♪ So let's promote ♪ Domestic education. At this point, it's only $12,000. children in Poland, 2 thousand. abroad. It is important to remember that this is a cheaper version of education than general education. Children are more independent in such education and approach is individualized. And as far as the socialization process is concerned, there are other out-of-school, out-of-school activities to make up for it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u172	Thank you very much. Mr Arthur Dziambor, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u173	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, a quote: As for my successes in the Ministry of National Education, I could mention endlessly - says former Minister of Education, now MEP Anna Zalewska. I have a lot of experience, a lot of thought. I have no idea why no one asks me - the former Minister of Education was surprised to talk to Interia. Ha, ha, ha! Ladies and gentlemen! I have no one to talk to, because the PiS sector is almost empty, but I hope that after the recording someone will tell you that you sent her to space, to Brussels just so that she wouldn't advise, and her activities were so hopeless that you have to withdraw her stupid ideas that didn't work out, because of course they were based on us and we see ourselves rather than the facts. We're very happy to get back to that. This is a serious subject. A serious subject, of course. The Confederation will support it because it is a bill that goes in the right direction. It's not perfect. It's not perfect, because, of course, domestic education needs further steps, it needs even more support. He ultimately needs an educational bonus so that his parents can invest at his own discretion in the educational development of their children; [[Applause]] needs the development of private education, needs opportunities for small groups, small schools, small educational activities, which aim for a young man to gain some knowledge, not necessarily following this shamp system that we have all the time in our Polish education at this point. So that the right direction, it's a little too bad that after a few years it was necessary to fix and these years are lost, because of course before it comes to the next step, it will be many more years. We'll support it, like I said. But please, because I think you have some contact, a phone call, say hello to Minister Zalewska. You have to smile at her, thank her for her success. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u174	Thank you very much. We're joining Question Time. The list of Members shall be 21 persons. If no one else wants to join the list, I close it while setting the time for the question - 1 minute. And I would now like to ask Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska. I'm here, I'm here.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u175	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In accordance with the Regulation of 9 August 2017 on the organisation and provision of psychological and pedagogical assistance in public kindergartens, schools and psycho-pedagogical clinics, it gives an opinion which is essential and indisputably important, especially when a child is to use a form of non-stationary education at school. Such a decision gives an opportunity to assess whether a child has a predisposition to study outside school and outside his peer environment. The argument that the psychological-pedagogical decision made by the counsellor is pointless and entails unnecessary costs and bureaucracy is absolutely incomprehensible to me. In such a situation, who will assume responsibility if the child does not find himself in a different form than traditional education? Who will point out and determine what methods of teaching should be used when it is necessary to help a child with educational difficulties? Who's gonna tell you how to work with a kid like that? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u176	Thank you very much. Traditionally, it's homemade. And at school, it's what? If the president wishes, he'll have a chance to ask a question. The question will now be asked by Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u177	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The procedated draft law on education law, relating to home education, is the best example of the fact that not everything that the predecessors have done, needs to be changed and not all changes that are introduced by the government coalition are good and appropriate. And in this respect, it is to be welcomed that you are withdrawing from the wrong solutions. On the other hand, as far as what has been said here in the context of Polonia is concerned, it seems to you, however, that we should discuss it, because education in the case of Polonia, children living abroad, should be extended as much as possible and not narrowed down. I think there's still time to discuss this at the committee meeting, and that's what I call for. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u178	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This parliamentary project is the right move, it's a first step in domestic education abroad, it's about financial aid for exam fees. The second point is to increase subsidies for domestic education. On the other hand, it raises doubts about the obligation to have an opinion from a pedagogical and psychology counselor. Of course, the justification is that it takes too long, but that means that the system doesn't work, since it takes so long and can affect the fate of the child, and I think it's the wrong thing to give up completely. Therefore, I would like to ask the representatives of the Ministry: What other forms of supervision of the home education process will be implemented when we eliminate, among others. an obligation for this opinion to provide psychological and pedagogical counseling? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u180	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Zdzisław Wolski, the Left, to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u181	I'd like to justify the offer of the left club a little bit differently. Well, home education was, is and will be, but it's about its scale. At the moment there is an epidemic and it will last long, probably the worst before us, including closed schools and remote teaching of children, i.e. isolation of children from their peers, people-to-people contacts, from the ability to function in the group. Among the concerned psychologists, psychiatrists trying to predict what will happen to these children in the future, is, of course, the cautious view that a year of remote education is just like for an adult 4 years on unemployment benefits or in prison. Therefore, even wise people can take advantage of this opportunity and under the influence of children... I also wanted to inform you (The Bell) that the most vulnerable seem to be children who currently feel good in the situation of remote learning. For these children it will be particularly difficult to return to normal, with great harm to them. So not only parents who want to hide something, but who really love their children can harm their future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u182	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u183	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project we are discussing would not raise any objections if it were such a common sense project to correct certain errors and situations connected with unnecessary changes that have been introduced by the current government, and concerned marginal situations in Poland, some wise pedagogical experiments or the continuation of Polish language learning, literature of Polish young people, children who are abroad, whether temporarily or as Polonia. If that were the case, this project would not create some distrust or raise questions, but my distrust is primarily aroused by the designer - Dr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, who is known for various fundamentalist crusades and tastes of them. I also have doubts as to whether it is another crusade aimed at raising distrust in the general system of education. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And my question is: What is the actual purpose of the government, and why is this project a parliamentary project and not just a government project? If it was a government project, he wouldn't have doubted it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u184	Thank you. The question will be asked by Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am amazed at the question from the Left that PiS is clericalizing schools, because if the PiS allows us to get out of this system, it is also complaining that it is just to be more clerical. This is completely absurd. But let's get down to basics. Everyone who's in charge wants the kids to be taught the way he wants them to -- like the PIS, like the PO, like anybody. Nobody wants kids to be taught the way their parents want them to. And you're not gonna agree to that. Neither you will agree, nor will you agree that children should be taught the way their parents want them to. However, this home schooling is a step in this direction. But as long as education is state-owned - which is about to fall, of course, we will return to normality - one thing could be done, one basic thing could bear, the worst thing that is in our education system: finally to eliminate co-education, which has consequences not only for education, the level of education, but also for social consequences (the Bell), very serious social consequences. And that's what the government could do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u186	Thank you very much. Now the question will be asked by Mrs Magdalena Łośko, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill provides for an increase in expenditure on education for children and young people learning from home education and this is a good direction. The project restores the solutions that were in force before the government, but the current government extinguishes the fire that it itself had previously caused. However, I would like to draw attention to another important aspect of this subject. By the end of 2020 the Polish Towns Association presented data on the financial situation of the Polish education and underestimation of educational subsidies for local government units. This problem must be borne as long as the government leans over it. Education subsidy, top-down imposed in the state budget, never covered 100% co-financing of the costs of running schools by local authorities, but in 2003 it financed more than 71% expenditure of local authorities on education and in 2019 - only 57%. Since 2015 there has been a drop in subsidies by more than 5% , [[♪ The bell ♪]] despite an increase in the amount of subsidies. Question: "Will the government consider the proposal of local governments to increase the education subsidy in proportion to the actual rising costs of functioning education?" Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u188	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Kinga Gajewska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u189	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! What have you done with the PiS in this term of office? You promised people that you would increase the funding of domestic education, guaranteeing it in the bill, you promised that Polish children living abroad, who wanted to learn at the Polish school would be able to learn and implement the entire program basis, to receive a Polish certificate. And what did you do? You tricked them again. Mr Wróblewski at the first committee meeting, presenting his assumptions in beautiful words, had all the associations, all these people. And in the subcommittee, when there were fewer people, he quickly withdrew quietly from those regulations. Today Mr Wróblewski is not here. PiS isn't here today. The minister, the new minister, who was called to represent this bill, called on you to represent him. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I promise that the funding will be in the regulation. But how are these people supposed to trust the state that you guys are ever going to finance homeschooling? You change ministers, you change no responsibility, you change your mind every moment. Nobody believes you anymore. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u190	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bak, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In Poland there has been a process of quiet privatisation of education for years. It did not start with the rule of law and justice, but it is enthusiastically continued by you. As a result, Poles and Poles stopped trusting the public school. Today, more than half of her parents, if only she had the opportunity, would have sent her child to private school. [[Applause]] The lack of confidence in public education combines the divisions of towns and villages, right-wing and left-wing voters, younger and older. [[Applause]] As many as 44% of the voters of Law and Justice, your constituents, would prefer that their child did not have to go to a public school supervised by Minister Czarnek. [[Applause]] It's hard to blame them. This dramatic situation of public education This is the result of the poor educational policy that has been pursued for years by the governments of the right hand. From the destruction of the system by Anna Zalewska, through the complete lack of preparation of schools for remote education by Dariusz Piontkowski, to the ideological crusade, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which Polish schooling is funded today by Przemysław Czarnek. What is your response to the dramatic state of public education? What are you doing so that students and parents don't want to run away from public schools on a massive scale? It's time to save public education - to save, not privatize. [[Applause]] Why save, privatize?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u192	The question will now be asked by Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u193	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Parliamentary draft of changes to the Education Law introduces new provisions on domestic education. However, because this Ministry of Education is responsible for education in Poland, therefore not for designers, and to the Minister of Education I have the following two questions. Question one. In your opinion, should non-public schools and schools run by bodies other than self-government units in the Polish education system be able to function solely or mainly on home education? Question two. The opinion of the Sejm Analysis Bureau provided to Members shows that there were indications of systemic pathology in domestic education already in 2016 - I quote. Does the Minister agree with this view, which this pathology was and what the Ministry of Education has done for 5 years on the elimination of pathology in domestic education? I kindly ask the Minister to answer my questions in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u194	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u195	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Today, PiS is pulling out of bad domestic education solutions. One swallow of spring doesn't make it, but there's a signal. It's a good thing there's been sobering, but how much bad has happened, how much harm it's done to children, parents, Polonia... It is a pity that the PiS in this project did not agree to explicitly include in the law the principle of increasing education subsidies in connection with home education. And a general question. Minister, when will the PiS withdraw from all the bad regulations that he introduced by the pseudoreform of Polish education? When will that be? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u196	Thank you. The question will be asked by Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u197	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! Indeed, Minister Zalewska has exceptional achievements in terms of Polish education. When it comes to the amount of evil that she has contributed to education, there will be textbooks on this subject. This is an example of the fact that it's enough not to spoil. If domestic education hadn't been spoiled, we wouldn't have had to fix it right now, and we wouldn't have wasted our time reversing the changes that were made in the days of the PiS, in the days of Mrs. Zalewska. I have only one sad conclusion: that it is not as easy to reverse the second worst change, i.e. to eliminate middle school. This damage, irreparable, can no longer be repaired. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u198	The question will be asked by Ms Krystyna Shumilas, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u199	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Four years ago, we called on Minister Zalewska, Members of the Law and Justice, not to spoil well-functioning domestic education laws, so that they would not limit their territorial capacity to allow opinions to be expressed in private advice. Today, only after 4 years, the PiS withdraws from those bad changes made then. I have a question: When will you come to the conclusion to withdraw from others, also very unfavorable for the education of change? This is the first step. I hope you will look at the changes you've made, and at least the changes that can be reversed, you will withdraw. And the second question is whether the second question [[♪ The bell ♪]] appeal to the State: continue to break the Law of Education. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u200	Thank you very much. Is Mr Piotr Boris in the room? There it is. There it is. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u201	Dear Marshal, Minister! Domestic education is one of the best forms of education in which many Polish families, many smaller schools have invested. The best education trends can be tested successfully, as evidenced by the results, in the state's trust system for parents, to the family, to schools. My question comes down to two elements, Mr Minister. First of all, to finance. During the Civil Platform, funding was 100%. You're down to 60%, now you're up to 80%. What are the reasons for still weak funding? And the other thing. I'm thinking of Polonia. The state presented in the bill the possibility of home education also for Polish children and it disappeared. What happened, Minister, that you are resigning from investing in domestic education for Polish children, for Polonia? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because we can't understand it. I'm asking for an explanation on this matter. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u202	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Alexander Mishalski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u203	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As has already been said, this procedated project to some extent restores the condition before the deformity. And, of course, it's a good thing that you're abolishing the requirement to join the application for permission for home education to the public's pedagogical and psychology counselors, that's a turn in the right direction. Originally, it was also anticipated that there would be a statutory increase in subsidies. Why have you finally changed this and why will the Minister decide this by regulation? Why don't you want him to democratically decide the Sejm? I would like, by the way, to raise another important issue for education, not entirely related to the law. Namely, it is about the remuneration of disciplinary agents for teachers who receive money for each procedure initiated and according to the regulation more if the penalty is more severe. It leads, Minister, to pathology. In Małopolska, up to 50% of all disciplinary proceedings are initiated against teachers throughout the country. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They are later resigned by the board at the Minister of Education. I would like to ask the Minister what his position is on the revision of the Ombudsman's financing system so as to prevent financial benefits from being reaped in the case of the most absurd and unfounded allegations. Finally, the appeal to finally call off curator Nowak, because the damage it does in Małopolska education will unfortunately be irreversible. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u204	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am glad that you are withdrawing from your previous solutions, because these solutions were unfortunately wrong, not saying that they were sometimes even scandalous. I am sad that the state, instead of listening to experts, instead of talking to experts, instead of listening to different backgrounds, is introducing various kinds of bad solutions, first you spoil something, then you fix it, and then you say that we have achieved great success. Ladies and gentlemen, I wonder what will remain of the PiS government in terms of education. Everyone will always say, first, a significantly reduced subsidy, and second, a completely shattered education system. Science is a value. Today, in a network society, in a global society, it may be one of the greatest values. It's very easy to break something, it's hard to fix. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Remember, young people of these spoiled years will not forgive you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u206	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, the Civic Coalition. If there is no Member, then Mrs Iwona Hartwich, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u207	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I wanted to draw your attention to the changes in education that are preparing for children with disabilities. Hence my three questions. If you want to change the whole procedure and case law, because there will be no judgments on the need for special education, no judgments on the need for re-education, no individual opinions on the need for early development support, then I ask: What will be the basis for directing children with disabilities to special institutions? Second question. To which institution will the child with disabilities after completion of special kindergarten, e.g. A nine-year-old with an intellectual disability functioning at the level of an annual child? Where a highly qualified staff will find employment [[♪ The bell ♪]] currently working in special facilities? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u208	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Fabisiak a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u209	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Domestic teaching was the easiest and cheapest way to strengthen the national identity of many children living outside the country, because how to teach a Polish child in South Africa. Homeschooling, microschools. This way of teaching should be supported by all means. There's one important argument that hasn't come up, which is why I'm going to replace it. Well, Minister, I'm going to ask you in writing for the results of the children's homeschool exams. You will find that they are very high. So the level of this teaching is high, satisfactory. I ask all the opponents of this teaching to analyze these results, and they will certainly change their mind. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u210	Thank you very much. The list of persons enrolled in the questions has been exhausted. Please answer the questions of Mr Tomasz Romankowski, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u211	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you so much for the bill submitted. As the Ministry of Education and Science, we participated in the work at the beginning of the subcommittee, then the committee. I confirm the words of the president. Indeed, the work of the committee was in the spirit of consent. I will address some of the issues that I think need to be explained. Of course, the bill is not a government project, it is a parliamentary project, as you have in the seym prints in your submission. As a ministry, we agree with the direction and position adopted, first the subcommittee and then the committee. Here's a general remark. What is home schooling? Well, ladies and gentlemen, homeschooling is a schooling obligation outside the school building. This is a fundamental issue. The question you raised about Polish children. The question is basically what Polish children we are talking about. Are those who are subject to a school obligation, which is a fundamental concept of the Polish educational system, or those who carry out a school obligation in the country where they are currently staying? From the end, I answer your questions about the children of our compatriots, co-hosts staying permanently outside the borders of the Polish state, often people who do not have Polish citizenship, who have a very distant relationship with the Polish state in relation to the history of their family. We give the possibility of fulfilling the obligation of school citizens of the Polish state temporarily staying outside the country, i.e. de facto it is a publicist concept of domestic education, because it is not a legal concept, it is not reflected in any legal act, we are talking about the fulfilment of the obligation of school outside the school. This possibility is given by the Centre for the Development of Polish Education abroad, this possibility is given by Polish schools at Polish diplomatic institutions, but we can talk about it especially in the case of ORPEG, it is about taking these classes in the form of on-line or in the form of partial examinations ending a given stage of education at the level of a given class, and it is here, on the spot, in Warsaw, at the school. National Education Committee run by ORPEG. Ladies and gentlemen! When it comes to the issue of education subsidies, there is a good question here - thank you for this question, because it was one of the few substantive questions - why education subsidies cannot be included in the bill. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the entire system of Polish education does not provide for such a mechanism that a specific type of activity is defined by law. The amount of the education subsidy is determined by a regulation of the Minister of Education and Science, hence our announcement on the committee. Today I support the opinion of Minister Przemysł Czarnek that, in the next year's educational grant, in the next year's budget, we will ask that this subsidy for domestic education be at a level of 0,8 of the basic amount. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the fundamental issue is concerned, I will start from detail to detail when it comes to the role of parents, schools and children. It is the school that is to educate, to support the educational process, but the central role is the role of parents, so I do not see the possibility of murder, of which some of you from this speaker spoke. I welcome all the voices supporting the idea of freedom of parents to decide whether they want the child to benefit from a public school, a school run not by the state, because most schools, and it is overwhelming, in Poland these are schools run by local authorities, by local authorities. Whereas there are private schools run by institutions from the third sector, by associations, foundations, religious unions, the Catholic Church. There's a whole range of this kind of facilities. Putting an equality mark between a public school and a non-public school, and thus between a school belonging to a local government and a school belonging to a third sector or to a natural person (the bell) is simply a complete misunderstanding of the subject. Thank you very much. The Ministry fully supports the draft drawn up in the course of the committee's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u212	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was tabled to the proposed bill, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft law amending the Social Assistance Act (Prints No. 969 and 987). I ask Mr Robert Warwas to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u213	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, I have the honour to present to the High House a report on the Government's draft law amending the Social Assistance Act. The draft is contained in Parliament's printing No 969 and the committee's report is in print No 987. High Izbo! The amendment of the law responds to the demands of social assistance practitioners. The processed change is cross-cutting in nature and concerns a number of issues, including: favourable changes for social workers, flexibility in the possibility of granting in-kind benefits, increased penalties for the operation of an illegal establishment providing 24-hour care to disabled persons, or changes in the amount of the periodic allowance for a single operator. In terms of changes for social workers, it is envisaged to increase the amount of the social worker's salary allowance: from PLN 250 to PLN 400, to reduce the working life of social workers from 5 to 3 years, on which an additional 10-day leave is dependent, and to establish a career promotion path and to introduce periodic evaluations with the possibility of questioning their performance. The proposed amendments also concern the fixing of the amount of the interim allowance in the case of a self-employed person. Currently, the amount of the benefit is fixed to the extent of the difference between the income criterion of that person and his income, except that the amount of the benefit may not exceed PLN 418 per month. It is proposed that this allowance should be fixed to the extent of the difference between the income criterion of the single person and his income, except that the monthly amount of the benefit should not be higher than the amount of the income criterion per person in the family. As a result of the amendment, the maximum amount of the periodic allowance will vary every time the income criteria change, which will positively affect the situation of the recipients. The amended law also provides for increased penalties for the operation of an illegal facility providing 24-hour care for disabled persons, chronically ill or elderly persons. The amount of the penalty would depend on the number of persons staying in an illegal establishment. That punishment would be $10,000. zł, if there were up to 10 people in the facility, 20,000. PLN if there are between 11 and 20 people in the facility and 30,000. zł when there are more than 20 people in the facility. It is also proposed to increase penalties from 40,000. up to 60,000 when the facility continues to operate in the same way in the event of the decision to impose a penalty for operating without permission from the voivode of the establishment. In addition, the amendment provides for the possibility of providing care services or specialised care services as a matter of urgency. It is also proposed to allow spouses or parents of adult children to be sent together to the same welfare home. The proposed changes also included the abolition of the obligation to pay for non- 24-hour services in support centres for people with mental disorders. This will reduce the administrative burden on the self-government, but above all reduce the financial burden on the household budgets of people with mental disorders. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after first reading and after considering this draft law at its meeting on 9 March 2021, voted in favour of the Government's draft law amending the Law on Social Assistance. 30 Members voted in favour of the draft amendment, no one opposed it, two Members abstained. In view of the above, on behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, I request that the High Sejm adopt the draft law contained in the print report No 987. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u214	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would therefore like to ask the floor of Danuta Nowicka, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u215	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present the position of our club regarding the draft Social Assistance Act, No. 969 and No. 987. This is a government submission, which envisages amending the Law of 12 March 2004. On 9 March 2021, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy carried out its first reading and examined the proposed proposal. The aim of the proposed law is to implement part of the demands of social assistance actors, to amend and clarify the rules which have been found to be difficult to interpret. The project shall also take into account social workers' applications for qualifications, salaries, promotion paths and work-related benefits. The Act increases the amount of the salary allowance from PLN 250 to PLN 400 for full-time employment for workers whose basic obligations include providing social work in the environment or conducting family environmental interviews outside the unit's seat. The working life of social workers has been reduced from 5 to 3 years, depending on which additional ten-day leave depends. Additional opportunities have been put in place to acquire the right to pursue the occupation of a social worker. A career promotion path for social workers has been established taking into account periodic evaluations. The Act abolishes payment for services that are not provided 24 hours a day in support centres for people with mental disorders. The Act extends the catalogue of benefits which are not included in the income of the beneficiaries of social assistance, for financial assistance granted to the repatriates, for funding granted in the framework of actions undertaken by public authorities for the protection of the environment, for the reimbursement of the costs of the child's journey and for the care of disabled children for the transport to school and kindergarten. The proposed law introduces changes to the fixing of the interim allowance for a single operator. As a result of the changes, the maximum amount of the periodic allowance will change each time the income criteria change. The Act makes the possibility of granting non-monetary benefits more flexible. The Act introduces the possibility of granting care services or specialised care services as a matter of urgency, justified by a sudden change in the health status of the person to whom the services will be provided. It also introduces a joint referral of spouses or parents with adults to the same welfare home. The Act increases penalties for the operation of illegal facilities providing 24-hour care to disabled persons, chronically ill or elderly persons, and for the failure to comply with audit recommendations. In addition, the Act clarifies the provisions which caused problems of interpretation concerning procedures relating to the activities carried out. The Act introduces very good changes, expected changes, as evidenced by the exceptional compatibility of committee members at first reading. That is why the Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u216	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, who will present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u217	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club a position towards the government's draft law amending the Social Assistance Act, prints No. 969 and 987. In my speech, I would like to refer to some regulations, because it is a very broad law. I don't know if you know that March 16 is World Social Work Day. Today's such a holiday. Surely it has been a long time for social workers to be interested in their work. It is a group of people overloaded with work, performing their tasks in difficult conditions and low-paid. Directors of social assistance units are faced with the problem of recruiting new workers for social work. In fact, the bill goes against the signaled staff shortages. Those who have completed higher education in one of the fields laid down in the draft law will be able to obtain professional qualifications by supplementing their education. The project proposes that social workers employed in OPS, in PCPRs in the event of a direct threat to life or health in connection with their professional activities should be given psychological assistance. Social workers are faced with a number of difficult cases every day, and working with people with special needs is extremely mentally exhausting. Therefore, they should be able to use the help of a psychologist on an ongoing basis, not just in certain situations. The proposed provisions also provide for a shorter period of time on which the right to additional leave of 10 days from 5 to 3 years is subject. From PLN 250 to PLN 400, the amount of the supplement to the employee's salary, which conducts family interview and provides social work outside the unit's seat, has also been increased. This allowance should be valued every 3 years, as is the case with determining the periodic allowance. It is certainly beneficial and important for social workers to regulate where this allowance is not included in the basic salary. The project also regulates the system of promotion of social workers and obtaining a certificate of the social supervisor. These elements of the promotion of the professional social workers have repeatedly signalled. The bill also repeals the obligation to pay for services provided in daily support centres for people with mental disorders. This also applies to family social services homes. These are establishments where no less than three persons may be present but may not be more than eight. According to statistics on the last day of December 2019, only 37 such family social services houses existed in Poland. The change in the presented project allows to carry out this activity also in the area of the municipality adjacent to the municipality, where there is no possibility of running this type of house. May these institutions be created as much as possible, because their great advantage is their family and intimate character. Finally, the project regulates the possibility of referring to a specific type of welfare home together spouses, a parent with an adult child and, I hope, Minister, also siblings. In fact, we are increasingly dealing with family stays in 24-hour stays. According to the Social Assistance Act, the costs for the stay in DPS are borne by the resident himself, then by the family, and if the closest ones are unable to pay the fee, the cost of the stay is paid by the municipality. An important regulation is to clarify the payment for the stay of the resident by the municipality of the last place of residence of that person prior to admission to the establishment. At this point, I would also like to draw the attention of the Ministry to the need to regulate a situation in which there is a duty to pay for the stay of a loved one by a family member working abroad. I wrote an interpellation on this subject, and I did not get an exhaustive answer. The penalties for running illegal facilities providing 24/7 care have also been increased. I understand that the intention of such a change was to limit the emergence of illegal individuals. The question is how effective this will be. The possibility of providing care services or specialised care services was also introduced as a matter of urgency, justified by a sudden change in the health status of the person to whom they will be provided. In terms of support for homeless people, the project clarified inter alia. rules on the procedure for concluding a social contract with a homeless person and a reduction in the level of education of applicants as guardians in shelter facilities for homeless persons. However, it is a condition to have at least one year's experience working with those in need of support. With reported staff shortages, you can hope that this problem will actually be resolved. The draft law also clarifies the provisions concerning the integration of foreigners who have obtained refugee status or subsidiary protection in Poland. The provisions also include the assistance (the bell) of certain institutions due to the place of residence of the foreigner. The draft law also clarifies the way in which the income entitlement to aid benefits is calculated, indicating income deductible from income and benefits which are not included in the closed catalogue. The bill also refers to the periodic allowance, which is awarded primarily to those in difficulty. The Act introduces e.g. the solution that the maximum amount of the periodic allowance will change as the income criteria change. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Social Assistance Act is a document that deals with many aspects support for the most deprived and still requires a number of changes. In terms of regulation presented in the government project, print No.969, the Civic Coalition Club will vote in favour of this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u218	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski to present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u219	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, I have the honour of expressing my position on behalf of the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left regarding the amendment of the Law on Social Assistance presented by the Government. The advantages of this project. Firstly, the government project was consulted, which is rare in this House. The projects under consideration are rarely subject to longer consultations. More than 24 stakeholders have spoken by sending appropriate opinions to the government, and the community of trade union organisations, social organisations, has gathered such opinions and requests from 243 entities and has also sent them to the Minister. As far as solutions are concerned, this law has no new system solutions. This is a clarification, clarification, in short, of the verification of existing legal solutions for which practice has confirmed that they need to be regulated differently from a legal point of view. In 2005, a supplement was introduced to pay for field work for social workers. This law provides for the increase of this supplement from PLN 200 to PLN 400. Minister, on 1 January 2009, the minimum wage was PLN 849 and on 1 January 2021 - PLN 2800, i.e. increased by 320%. You are offering a 100% increase to social workers. Therefore, in the relevant amendment, the parliamentary club of the Left says: let us take the next step, let it be 500 PLN. It fits well into government policy of 500+. Secondly, there is a reduction in working time, followed by an additional 10-day leave. We say that this is a profession in which this activity burns out quickly, so we propose that this right to ten days' leave be granted after two years' work. We also provide for an appropriate amendment for workers in social assistance homes. The law in the relevant article states that social workers, PCPRs, etc. In contact with situations that pose a risk to health and life, they will be given the opportunity to obtain psychological assistance. There are many examples of the activities of social services homes, where workers encounter aggression. Hence the proposal to extend this psychological aid to social workers. With regard to the solution that raises doubts, it is a different treatment from the point of view of own income, i.e. the charges for staying in a social assistance home, non-public establishments and public institutions. That's the wrong thing to do. The unequal treatment of these entities in the future will have a bearing on the functioning of institutions created by local governments and district governments, which is why we propose to change this point in its entirety. In addition, we would like to include in the catalogue those income that are not taken into account when it comes to obtaining social assistance, an energy supplement - this is not some high amount - an apartment allowance and a care allowance. As far as systemic change is concerned, it concerns the amount of this single benefit. First of all, this smallest one-off allowance is currently 20 zlotys, that's the difference. Machining, decision, interview - 20 PLN. We propose, however, that this amount be PLN 100. And then, with regard to the introduction of the income criterion, today the difference between the income criterion announced by the government and the income of the single person is 50%. We propose that ultimately this is 90% distributed over the years, knowing that this entails specific costs. The target model would be introduced in 2025. The Left Club will support this project because it's a small step forward. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u220	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask Mrs Bożena Żalewska, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u221	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Act on Social Assistance from Print No. 969 and Print No. 987. Social assistance is an institution of state social policy. It is designed to enable individuals and families to overcome difficult situations in life. This assistance should be well coordinated as it is organised by government and local authorities cooperating with social, non-governmental and Church organisations. Social assistance supports individuals and families in their efforts to meet their needs and allows them to live in decent conditions. The changes introduced by this law are also part of the implementation of the demands of the environment and those involved in social assistance. The project extends the list of qualifications of persons able to pursue the occupation of a social worker, clarifies the scope of the rights and obligations of a social worker and the entitlement to an allowance for field work. The social worker's career path has also been established. This law also increases the fines for illegal running of a social assistance home and for failing to comply with audit recommendations. Moreover, this law abolishes the absolute requirement for disabled persons to have a specific education. It was also decided that the priority for social assistance is not to separate families in need of care. The conditions for financing a stay at a social security home have been clarified. It was also decided that people may be employed in 24-hour care facilities on the basis of a contract of employment or another contract, e.g. the contract of the order. The changes introduced also apply to the function of the supervisor. It is about enabling more social workers to apply for a supervisor certificate. This is one of the forms of career development of a social worker. These changes improve the situation of both social workers and those in need of assistance. Therefore, the parliamentary club of the Polish-Polish People's Party Coalition will vote in favour of this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u222	Thank you very much, Member. I am now asking Mr Dobromir Sosnier to present the position of the Confederate Group.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u223	Well, using a good economic situation, we allow ourselves to be raised for social workers. Social aid is certainly one of those sectors that are most affected by COVID. As we ask anyone on the street, which industry in Poland needs to be invested urgently, I think that social workers will be the top ten most frequently given answers. So I think it's a good choice. It is known that such a market industry can manage, gyms moan only for show, gastronomy still works in the underground. If you think about it that well, there's actually nowhere to shove that help money, so here's how he found it - the social sector. But besides the raises, we also have new privileges. Here's an example. An additional 10-day vacation is coming not after 5 years, but after 3 years. Since with a light hand we forgive so many man-hours, which from the point of view of the Republic of Poland will be lost irretrievably, then apparently the legislator silently shares my view that the work of these people is not The Republic of Poland really needs it. After all, we know the arrogance of the unloving ones: if they consider something precious, they are inclined to shake the pockets of the people without mercy. And here 80 hours from the employee with a light hand... I think there's something going on. On the other hand, I don't think that's the worst direction. I have an idea that I'm gonna give the IRS and the health department 365 days of paid leave. [[Applause]] If they have to take salaries, they can take wages, but at least don't let them bother entrepreneurs to work and earn money. For dessert we still have here: The Act firmly addresses the difficult and burning problem of the illegal social-care sector. Finally, we are heroic in the bar of organized crime, which consists of, of horror, caring for people with disabilities and older people. Now the punishing hand of the Republic will fall on the evil protective basement. Citizens living so far in fear of being taken care of illegally, will finally be relieved. [[Applause]] There is a clear message coming from this House today. You people looking after the elderly or the disabled without the Minister's permission, remember this message: we're coming for you. Our country can be tough when it needs to be. Well, the Confederation won't support this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u224	Well. Ms Joanna Mucha will now speak, who will present the position of the Poland 2050 wheel.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u225	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I cannot ignore at least two words about the performance or the show of social Darwinism in the performance of my previous speaker. You don't believe in Darwin? I'm really shocked that in the 21st century, you can think of people's relationships as you probably thought 100, 150 years ago... You don't believe in Darwin? We ask you not to disturb us. ...when shocking capitalism simply threw any weaker one out of the way. Mr. Speaker! It's about people who need help and people who work with them. About the workers... They work very hard, they do a huge job for all of us, for society just to help those who are in the most difficult situation, so that they can function normally in our society. What you said was simply unbelievable. Really, it's been a long time since I've heard anything like that. As regards our position, I would like to thank the Minister twice: firstly, for the bill, because I believe that it is important, necessary and secondly, for the style of work. I must say that in the committee in which we worked on this law, for the first time in a very long time I felt as if I were working in a normal country where we were talking substantively, talking about matters important for Poles, talking without arguing, without trying to smuggle something terrible into the rules. We have a completely unusual situation. We have a law which is consulted, in which case the environmental opinion is taken into account. We really felt like we were in another country for a while, in another Poland. This is a really big deal. For example, it would be nice to work on this bill. This is a very important project. It meets the environment - the project is praised by the Polish Federation of Social Workers and Social Assistance and the Chief Chamber of Nurses and Obstetrics. Mr Paweł Maczyński, President of the Polish Federation of Social Workers and Social Assistance, said: The amendment of the law is necessary and long awaited by social workers. In particular by social workers, because these changes are mostly affecting them, and we have been demanding for a long time to change the conditions for them to provide work. The reports of the Supreme Audit Chamber and other bodies clearly indicated that the social worker's profession was not doing well and something had to be changed in order, on the one hand, to stop the outflow of staff and, on the other hand, to ensure that those who work in the profession do their job professionally. We have a number of different types of records related e.g. with an increase in salary or so terribly by you - it is about my previous speaker - a criticized increase in the amount of vacation leave. We have records of, for example, punishment for illegal activities. We have a record of people from the same family being in the social services home together. These are really big and important changes that are very needed and desirable. I can clearly say that our circle will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u226	Thank you very much, Member. Can I get a corrigendum? Ms Agnieszka Chasing, a non-attached Member, will now speak. In corrigendum mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u227	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of an independent Member not associated with print No. 969 concerning the government draft law amending the Social Assistance Act. Let me add that this is a position of social assistance practice. I'll start by saying thank you. This law really solves a number of administrative problems. It will also make social assistance a little more accessible. I'm not discussing specific records. She really raises a lot of important questions. I agree with Mr Tomaszewski that this is not a systemic change. Two words of reflection on systemic changes when it comes to social assistance. The world is changing, the environment is changing, social problems are changing. Our social assistance system doesn't change much when it comes to its construction. Indeed, successive laws improve financial management, but this is not a fundamental task of social assistance. The job of social assistance is to get people out of trouble, families out of trouble. I think that we should start working on a holistic approach to the family, because if we do not start working with the whole family, we will not start working with methods that are recognised in the world, we will not provide empowerment, empowerment - the idea is to give the family the strength to solve its problems - we will have to hesitate from helping the family in a very social way to the attitudes presented by Mr Sosnierz. Undoubtedly, there are many families in the crisis that need help. A solidarity state should create a system in which it gives its hand, gives its rod, creates opportunities, creates a fishery and allows it to return to society. The idea is to have families like this with us create a healthy society. This is what I call for. I'll refer to the proposed bill. I speak on behalf of the group of Members who have signed the amendments. These are the 3 amendments that, in a sense, go a little opposite to some of the changes and approaches that you are presenting when it comes to social assistance. The first amendment - I would like to mention a little about them - points to an extension of the definition of a support centre. You bring up a lot of topics in this bill, but we are still moving in very narrow areas that we are dealing with when it comes to social assistance. We call social assistance units, we point to some random elements of social assistance infrastructure, for example. a place with different types. On the other hand, social assistance is also state subsidiarity, which is also a very environmental approach. The family I mentioned is primarily located in the environment. Working with your family is one thing, but working with your environment is another. That is why I am extending this definition in this amendment also to the support facilities that you mention to the President in the Presidential Act of 2019, looking at the surroundings of people and families a little wider, which is why I am pointing out that the support centres should also be the centres that you mention to the President, because I understand that this is what social assistance is going to be aimed at in order to look at the planting of the family. The second amendment is an amendment moving towards deinstitutionalisation, which is announced by Minister Wdewik, but you are also announcing it. And to what Mrs Kozłowska said, referring to family social assistance houses, a very good solution, unfortunately not yet practiced, I have another proposal for you to take into account, or perhaps to correct it in this amendment, because I think that someone who once planned family social assistance houses... There wasn't, for example, at that time. The social cooperatives law, and the public benefit law that appeared, narrowed down the vocabulary a little bit. I propose to include this in the possibility of running family social services homes and to look more closely at those institutions that are mentioned in the Public Use Act, among others. not only public benefit organisations, but also any other organisations, including ecclesiastical legal persons and social cooperatives. Perhaps this will create the possibility that these family welfare homes will have a greater opportunity to implement, as in the case of protected housing. And the request made by the Members of the Left not to actually divide social workers into social workers working in the DPS and social workers working in social assistance centres. The amount is small, but there is a request for these allowances to include also workers working in social services homes. The work is very hard, very necessary. Illegally. They work illegally. I will say in the context of the reform: we have prepared social workers with a really professional approach. They need to be re-bureaucratized, given more tools and opportunities. You have created them a good path of promotion, you have also created them requirements in terms of their education, we have well-prepared social assistance staff, but you have established them in a very bureaucratic system where they are really only engaged in administering funds, unfortunately to the detriment of families who are in social assistance, which in this way remain in it for years, and the task of social workers is to get these families out of this assistance. That is why it is worth thinking that, in addition to the requirements that they are asked to do, the allowances for the right work, we need to create tools for them to be able to do their work effectively, that is, really bragging about the indicators of getting families out of social assistance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Member. I understand the number of signatures required. Yes. I thank the Members of the Polish Coalition who signed this amendment. Corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u228	Here you are, the honourable Member's response.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u229	My brief correction. I didn't say anything - Mrs Mucha seems to have gone out - about Darwin or Darwinism in her speech, because I understand that Mrs Mucha is a believer in social creationism, which is that some people have the right to receive the money of other people, and the third have the right to live for taking one and giving the other. Then we really won't get along. But I must point out to you that if she believes that these people are doing a very important job in Poland, she should vote against this law, because as a result of extended leave the Republic will receive less of this work by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u230	We're going to ask questions. Would any of your fellow Members like to join the list? If not, I close it by setting the time to ask a question - 1 minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Iwona Maria Kozłowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u231	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The heads of social assistance centres paid attention to the payment of specialized care services at the place of residence. Currently, the issue of remuneration is governed by § 4 of the Regulation of the Minister of Social Policy of 22 September 2005 on specialised care services. Parents of children or those who can benefit from these services often give up, as the proposed number of hours exceeds the financial capacity of families and persons who are targeted at them. And I want to point out that this is, among other things. support of psychologist, educator, speech counselor, assistant of a person with disabilities and many other specialists. Perhaps we should consider the total abolition of payment for this very much needed support, or perhaps the method of calculating payment should be changed, e.g. as is the case with environmental self-help homes, so the remuneration is paid after 300% of the income criterion? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u232	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u233	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the draft law on social assistance is quite extensive, while changes are generally going in the right direction. It is very welcome to appreciate the role of social workers, because I agree with the Member here that they are doing very hard, very difficult, very hard work, and that issues related to their rest and their wages should indeed be a priority. Unfortunately, it still happens that this social worker, going to his wards, gets information that they receive income exceeding two or three - sometimes four times the salary he gets. I think this is a question that should also be considered in the future. It would also be useful to consider some greater freedom in terms of local government units, for example, to determine the income criteria on which certain benefits depend. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u234	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u235	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, Does the government carry out work aimed at introducing an allowance for family assistants and family foster care coordinators, as in the case of social workers? It is about the functioning of the 2011 law on supporting the family and the foster care system. These people also work with the family, of course, in their place of residence and carry out similar activities related to the functioning of the family as social workers. In their case, the law also lays down certain educational requirements. Therefore, it is the environment - employees of social assistance centres ask whether the government is considering the possibility (the bell) of introducing such an allowance for them as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u236	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Iwona Hartwich, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u237	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to draw attention to this - it is not in the law - that social care should take care of people with disabilities, but rather start to examine their needs and implement them together. Today we only see no programs, no respite or no assist program. And let me tell you this: Do you know what this government's most insolence is? That he proposed a strategy for people with disabilities whose implementation is to last nine years. Nine long years are to wait for the most deprived, unable to exist on their own. Today there are not even free diapers in Poland, Minister. It is possible to mention endlessly what is missing today and what amounts are paid by parents to orthopaedic equipment. But what most outraged our environment today is the indifference of this government for repeated requests to [[♪ The bell ♪]] immunize persons with disabilities and their carers who have been left to themselves. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u238	Thank you very much, Member. I now ask Mr Jan Szopiński from the Left Club to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u239	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, I have a question: Why was it not included in the catalogue of exemptions from income entitlement to social benefits, as well as in the housing benefits, which, when introduced, were intended to provide real support for people with disabilities and low income? According to CUS data, 14% households benefiting from social benefits are in the area of extreme poverty, so these benefits, as being income within the meaning of the Act, are really reducing the chance of receiving aid, for example. in the case of entitlement to a permanent allowance, the amount of the allowance shall be reduced by the value of the benefits granted, which constitutes almost a complete denial of the meaning of the granting of those benefits. I kindly ask the Minister to respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u240	Thank you very much, sir. The question will be asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u241	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! In my opinion, the bill under investigation is going in the right direction. I will not ask for details, but I wanted to ask about other urgent and expected changes in the area of social assistance, specifically the situation of workers, mainly carers in welfare homes, and their very low wages. At the moment, workers often leave, and it is very difficult to get other carers to replace them, who would show great empathy for their subjects. A few years ago, I asked about it here in the parliament hall, and then the former Deputy Minister promised that the resort would develop new taxis, because these current ones are outdated and completely stand out from reality. And nothing's changed here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I know that this is largely the role of local governments, but the ministry could also help, because the situation of the DPS and their workers in the pandemic is particularly difficult. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u242	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u243	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Points 3, 16, 17 and 18 1 of this law concerns aid granted to foreigners. Until now, voivodships have been included. they were tasked with coordinating the integration of foreigners, including in particular, I quote: in terms of indicating their place of residence. This was the case for foreigners who obtained refugee status, subsidiary protection or temporary residence permit in Poland due to the circumstances mentioned in the article. 159 Foreigners Act. The present law proposes to delete this paragraph on assistance based on the indication of the place of residence by the voivode. This record has been dead so far, because the voivods don't have a housing pool that they can point out. My question is what can be obtained in return. [[♪ The bell ♪]] However, the fact that the voivods were responsible for identifying the apartment gave some kind of guarantee of housing care. Is it considered other housing aid than closing in an open or closed refugee facility, cheaper and more practical, and better for foreigners themselves? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u244	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Mr Zdzisław Wolski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u245	I think it's about time I asked the government when it will regulate the flow of information between very many institutions and organisations that operate in the area of social assistance. This is particularly necessary for social assistance centres, non-governmental organisations, because many of these institutions know nothing about themselves. There should be data flow, data acquisition and transmission between e.g. social assistance centres, but also police, schools, health care units, so that there is no situation that some of the preventable people and families get help from many sources, and some of the proud, really living in poverty - out of nowhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u246	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Piotr Boris, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u247	Dear Minister, Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, there are few laws that do not cause any contentious emotions in which we can be in agreement. This law is not strategic, but above all technical. It responds to many of the demands of workers who deal with the issues of those in need, especially seniors, on a daily basis. It re-qualifies salaries, career paths, the entire qualification system, often reducing them to practical systems. It provides many social elements resulting from the possibility for social workers to obtain early leave. It regulates fees, a number of facilitations and opportunities arising from the placement of people in social care homes, in senior homes, especially as regards the needs of family members as well. My question comes down to one thing: First, when you give us the whole strategy, not just the technical one. [[♪ The bell ♪]] attention, but a senior policy strategy in Poland? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u248	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u249	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Both questions will concern homeless people, or two areas. First line. The interdisciplinary task is to emigrate homeless returning to Poland. Actually, what is offered to them, what Poland offers them, is a place for homeless people in accommodation facilities. Meanwhile, these people need a different place. This should also be addressed by social assistance, but this issue is completely unregulated. I will gladly pass on the current case to the Minister, now, the homeless mentally ill, who is returning from Sweden. The second point concerns the caretakers of these facilities, the accommodation facilities. Usually, those carers - and well - become those who live there who get out of the habit. Answer me: Is there a possibility in the system for these people to increase their qualifications? Are there any system facilitations? Because I've never heard of them. At the same time, at the same time, the law reduces the qualifications of these guardians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u250	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Alexander Mishalski, the Civic Coalition. There isn't. In that case, Mrs Urszula Rusecka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u251	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to thank you very much for this bill, because it is the result of really meeting the demands of the environment. I am very pleased that we can have a second reading on World Social Work Day. I would very much like to thank all social workers for their hard work, which, as you can see, is not all known, not everyone knows. I would like to thank all parliamentary clubs for their solid work in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on this bill. However, it is difficult for me not to refer here to the words of the representatives of the Confederation. Mr President, please do not offer an assessment of the work results of a really very difficult profession, which is often linked to stress - often social workers are exposed to mental and physical aggression, and are entering the most difficult areas. On the other hand, I do not wish you to be in such a difficult situation (the bell) when you need such help. And when you accidentally end up in a private facility with your own money, it's good for someone to control whether you're being given proper care for your money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u252	Thank you. It's the family that's gonna control it. If this family can take care of you because it's different. The question will be asked by Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u253	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A long time ago, I was amazed to learn that illegal work is possible in the system where people work for work. And now I've found out there's illegal social services. This is unbelievable. Think about it. The State pays for this assistance. I understand that if he pays, it's not social aid, it's state aid. Social - they're people, and here's state aid. And now you're paying for it, and yet, I understand, some illegal welfare homes are being created. Think of the great need for people not to use these state houses if they want to use houses where there is no state aid. Why do you want to destroy something out of state control? Because as Mussolini said, everything is to be in the country, nothing but the state. That's the doctrine you have here. What's wrong with people wanting to be in houses you don't pay for? Isn't that good for you? Illegal social services is really a puriazum. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u254	Thank you very much. On this, the list of Members wishing to ask the question has been exhausted. I now ask Minister Stanisław Swede, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u255	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank all the clubs for supporting the law, also for their previous work in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, where we could actually have a substantive discussion on an important law. I will not fully agree with the voices that this is just a technical act, because it makes a number of good changes and concerns social workers, but not only, because it also makes changes to make it easier to take care of the people or the people concerned. There is no question of liquidation of local or private units. The solutions he is introducing are just to provide a basic standard of care so that there is no abuse or a situation where there is no care at all, and it sounds very elegant to say that we have support, and this support is not really provided. In this discussion there were also questions about system changes. Of course, the changes that are being made, to some extent, relate to systemic changes, because we know that they are workers who work directly with their family. This is the main change to which we are going, and this is of course also about family welfare homes. We know that this direction needs to be continued, because this is the right direction. We will also discuss deinstitutionalisation in some time, which will also be a matter of support in terms of support for social protection. As far as systemic issues are concerned, it will probably also be a good example of what we have now implemented in 2020, for the first time, piloting, is the centre of social services. Let me remind you that this was a presidential project, we will see - there are over 30 such projects carried out - how it will work. And then we can again, as it has already been said here, together with the environment, with local governments - because I remind you that the area of social assistance is mainly the task of local governments - sit down and think about how to re-build social assistance in Poland, because we agree that, having experienced decades, at this moment we have to approach support in terms of social assistance and specialized care. In this respect, we are open to discussions, discussions. The issues that we have solved - answering specific questions about social workers - are here. Of course, there were more demands, and not including them in the bill comes primarily from costs. If we do not have the resources to cover all the solutions, then we have proposed the solutions for which we have the funds provided in the budget. In this law for this year there is PLN 50 million earmarked for the implementation of the law, and in this respect we can of course introduce these solutions. As regards support - because there were also questions about it - regarding social assistance homes, only in the previous year 130 million zlotys were allocated additionally to support social assistance houses, including salaries for employees. We know it's a difficult time with COVID, especially in social services homes. Today we can say that the situation in welfare homes is stabilized: at almost 80,000. There are dozens of people who are infected, which is a very low percentage. As well as a penny, because almost 80% DPS employees have been vaccinated, i.e. those actions that we have taken, also caused social services homes to be in good shape today. This year we have already allocated over PLN 50 million to the operation of social services houses. Last year, the European funds were almost PLN 30 million. So we gave these measures to help social services homes and today we can say that in Poland we have not seen such dramatic images as from other European countries concerning, for example, older people who did not receive help in social assistance homes. This was not the case in Poland. As for the specific proposals for amendments, if the amendments do not generate costs, we will, of course, still be discussing at the committee meeting. If these are amendments which, however, would require an increase in resources, we cannot, of course, support such changes today without the resources provided for the implementation of this law in the budget of the State. Thanks again to all the clubs for their support. The amendments will be addressed at the committee meeting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u256	Thank you very much, Minister. Would the rapporteur like to speak? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u257	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I would also like to express my sincere thanks for today's debate and for the substantive discussion that took place at the first reading of the Social Policy Committee. Thank you for most of the positive opinions regarding the revision of the Social Assistance Act. Indeed, in summary: the revised act was widely consulted in the social workers' environment and responds to their main demands. The work involved in this profession often involves risk or job burnout and, as we hear from the area, from local governments, it also affects the fact that social workers are increasingly lacking. Therefore, the amendments that have been included in this draft law are expected and required for the profession of social worker... To encourage young people to choose such a professional path. The new regulations contribute to improving the working conditions, wages and salaries of social workers, but also make the rules for granting benefits and care services more flexible and orderly. The bill has been amended. Today, at the meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, we will discuss these amendments in detail. In a good, constructive, substantive atmosphere, I hope. As it has been said here today, we are celebrating the World Social Work Day. It is good that the Sejm is working on a law that responds to requests from social workers. Surely social workers should be praised for their efforts and commitment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u258	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. After consulting the Seniors' Convention, Marshals of the Sejm decided to delete from the agenda the current meeting of the point: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee on the Government bill amending the Law on Government Administration Departments and some other laws, prints Nos 897 and 934. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Law - Aviation Law (prints no. 986 and 1007). I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u259	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I would like to present a report on the work on amending the Act - Aviation Law, print Nos 986 and 1007. The first reading took place today. The regulation, which is the subject of the work of the Sejm, concerns two points, namely the commercial high-risk special-risk aircraft of the special category referred to by the Act - Aviation Law, and the commercial operations involving the operation of fire and fire-fighting flights on an aircraft which holds a certificate of airworthiness in accordance with the Regulation of the European Commission. I will make it clear that this novel simply introduces national rules which are not subject to European Union law and to the supervision of the European Union Agency for. Air Safety. On the other hand, as rapporteur, I would like to inform the High House, first of all, that the recommended solution in this law contained in the revision of the article is the preferred solution. 163c, which extends the scope of this provision to the regulation on the authorisation of commercial high-risk specialised operations for aircraft which remain under national supervision, as well as to the authorisation of commercial operations involving fire and fire-fighting operations, we are supplementing the lack of regulation which was the source of this government initiative. Secondly, the committee in connection with the amendment introduced in the above mentioned paragraph. the scope also divided the position of the government, which is linked to the fact that the changes made include in part provisions concerning the supervision of the President of the Civil Aviation Office of entities which receive the above mentioned. authorisation, in accordance with national rules. This also applies to air charges for the issue of permits or, if any, other changes, or the day-to-day supervision of authorised entities, as well as sanctions for non-compliance with the rules introduced by such government and parliament by regulations. Finally, I would also like to point out that, in view of the repeal of the air law rules which concern the issue of an air service certificate, so-called "air services certificate." AWC, on the basis of which fire and fire-fighting flights had previously been carried out, as of the date of entry into force of the Act in 2018, was a novel of 14 December 2018 - it is also necessary in this amendment to amend Annex 6 to the Aviation Law in order to eliminate air charges related to this certificate. I recommend, on behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, that the High Sejm adopt this, I think, a comprehensive, although point-by-point draft amending the Law - Aviation Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u260	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would therefore again ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice this time.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u261	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In order not to repeat the arguments made in my previous speech as rapporteur, I would just like to express my support on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice for amending the Act - Aviation Law, print Nos 986 and 1007. I would like to stress that this point regulation of the Aviation Law concerns - as Minister Marcin Horała said today - about 20 aircraft of the old type which will be subject to national supervision regulations, already directly to the President of the Civil Aviation Authority, on operations such as specialised high risk operations of the special category or the operation of fire and fire-fighting flights of such ships as hold a certificate of airworthiness. To sum up, I would like to say that Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports this regulation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u262	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by Maciej Lasek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u263	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens, I would like to present a position regarding the amendment of the Act - Aviation Law, print no. 986. The amended amendment is intended to be authorised to carry out high-risk commercial specialised operations, such as fire and fire-extinguishing flights, as mentioned here already, to companies using aircraft and helicopters which do not have a type-certificate of the European Union Agency for Safety and Safety at Work. Air Safety, namely EASA, therefore these aircraft or helicopters are not subject to EASA supervision. In such a case, the aircraft concerned shall, of course, remain under national supervision, i.e. have a national type-certificate not recognised by EASA or are allowed to fly in the special category under the conditions laid down in the Act and in the Regulation. Until the entry into force of the Act - Aviation Law of 14 December 2018, companies that provided high-risk flights with such aircraft used air services certificate, so-called. The AWC, which the Minister also referred to. The above amendment of the Act - Aviation Law of 2018 abolished the AWC certificates. Therefore, after their expiry, which took place in that quarter, it was necessary to allow the continued use of these types of aircraft and helicopters for fire-fighting flights. It was necessary to amend this law so that these planes and helicopters would not stand. The idea is that companies such as State Forests or other companies that are involved in the fire protection of forests, meadows can benefit from this. The proposed solution will, of course, increase the number of aircraft and helicopters to be used in fire and fire operations, which is expected by both fire protection and service providers. This will also correct a certain legislative error contained in the Law amending the Act - Aviation Law of 14 December 2018, which does not provide for the possibility of continuing operation of aircraft and helicopters which do not have EASA certificates, although European legislation in this field They didn't require that. The Civic Coalition will support the proposed changes, but a few questions are raised. Prior to the adoption of the amendment to the Act - Aviation law no consultation process was carried out under the pretext of the urgency of the project resulting from the need to ensure the entry into force of the regulations enabling the issue of permits, etc., i.e. the possibility of using these aircraft and performing high risk operations as soon as possible. However, the change in this area, i.e. the liquidation of AWC certificates, took place in 2018, and in fact on 1 April 2019, i.e. at the time of entry into force. So it was 2 years before new regulations were introduced, and basically repairing what was not foreseen or spoiled 2 years earlier. It should also be recalled that this amendment introduces new air charges and introduces regulations, i.e. restrictions on business activities in high-risk specialised operations. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The basic principle of good legislation and fairness towards airlines requires that such changes be subject to public consultation. For the past two years, nothing has prevented this change from being carried out in the right way. The Minister explained today why this was to be part of a major amendment, but unfortunately the history of changes in aviation law always shows that these changes are being made. very late and at the very end. I therefore wish the Ministry of Infrastructure, and in particular the President of the Civil Aviation Office, that such negligence should not occur again, because specialists who are employed at the Civil Aviation Office can do so. They can afford it. done well, just like now, only at the right time. Thank you very much. Applause
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u264	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask Robert Kwiatkowski, who will present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u265	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, there is evident legislative negligence here, because it is necessary, in fact, to proceed with the change, as the rapporteur and the previous speakers referred to. It is a change that regulates or facilitates life, which will enable the economic activity of a group of Polish entrepreneurs, although not much, but still. Either it should be included in the amendment of the Aviation Law in 2018, or the amendment of the Aviation Law envisaged at the moment, as Mr Horała spoke at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee, should have speeded up so that the certificates did not expire, because as the certificates expired, people did not have the opportunity to carry out their economic activity on those old, well-kept, but still flying, still efficient Mi-2 and An-2. Starting from the end, I would like to say that the Parliamentary Left Club will vote in favour of this government submission and for further work on prints Nos 1007 and 986. However, I would like this opportunity to speak before the High House and to report on changes in aviation law, changes, as I say, imperfect and point rules - here the principles of good legislation cry and ask for vengeance, Minister - to use to formulate or interest you in two problems related to the operation of ULC and with the status of pilots and cabin crews. As far as ULC is concerned, I wanted to ask, on this occasion, about the system and scope of control of those who organize and conduct the so-called. Lookout flights, Minister, because as far as I'm concerned, the efficiency and qualifications of this staff may have some reservations. These may be reservations and reasonable doubts, but I would like to remind you that, even in Warsaw's reality, these sightseeing flights are carried out on the route, for example. airport in Bemów - National Stadium. It is clear, then, that those who will be flying must have the appropriate certificates and those of the highest sample. I don't know if it is. But it is not a de facto question to me or to the High House, but to the Minister and to the President of ULC, because perhaps the checks on this matter and in this respect are being carried out and we will receive an exhaustive reply. If it wasn't, I'd ask for an answer in writing. The second issue is somewhat related to aviation problems: these are the infamous shields of various kinds, particularly recently detailed in the Council of Ministers regulation of 26 February. Again pilots and cabin crew operating on the basis of the dominant PKD 51.10. They were not covered, Minister, with these shields, with this help in such a situation, which is curiosious and astonishing, because most of them, and again this applies to a group of 400 and 500 people thrown out on business by - attention - our national carrier, our pride - Minister, do not hide - means Polish Airlines LOT... And it seems at least incomprehensible. These people are in quite a dramatic situation, especially those who were lucky enough to sign up under the dominant PKD 53.23. Z, they've been given this aid. So we're dealing with a situation where just a statistical number, not a real range of activities, causes some of the money from government aid to be received and others are not receiving it. Is that really the case? I asked this question to the Minister for Development, Work and Technology. Unfortunately, so far, I have not received the answers, and the matter is urgent enough and these people are in such a dramatic situation that I have allowed myself to take the attention of the High House, using the Government's submission concerning, as I said, a point and in total a technical amendment, for which the Coalition Club of the Left is in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u266	Thank you very much, sir. I would now like to ask Mr Stefan Krajewski, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u267	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL, UED, Conservatives regarding the government draft law amending the Act on Aviation Law, print no. 986 and 1007. The amendments are intended to permit the performance of high-risk commercial specialised operations to entities which, in the case of operations of aircraft which are not subject to the supervision of the European Union Agency for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Air Safety (EASA) has so far used the AWC Air Service Certificate, hereinafter referred to as the AWC Certificate, issued under the Aviation Law Act as it stood before the date of entry into force of the Act of 14 December 2018 amending the Aviation Law Act and certain other laws. The proposed amendments to the Aviation Law will extend the scope of the provisions in question by adding regulations on the authorisation of high-risk commercial specialised operations to aircraft under national supervision, as well as permits for commercial operations involving fire and fire-fighting operations. This may be a slight change, but it is necessary. The point is that all those aircraft which cannot fully meet European standards, and which are used here especially for fire, fire, fire and fire operations, should be able to do their job. And as important as this is, I had the opportunity last year to observe during a fire in the Biebrzaskie Swamps. Let's make these certified aircraft as much as possible, because firefighters just didn't leave any dry hair on these operations. There was one helicopter that was extinguishing water from the river, and two dromedaries that had to fly, refuel, and come back. A bunch of guards came from all over Poland, beautiful fire trucks, which were standing on the access roads because they couldn't get to the place of the fire. Unfortunately, those planes were missing. So today, from this place, I appeal to the government. Of course, we should not have such situations anytime soon, but if something like this happened, there is no need for the lans and press conferences of the next ministers, as it does smoothly, the state is working quickly and there is a need for real help. And then we'll see that this country is working, giving the exam. And then even someone could say that at least in the fractional part we see some good change, because so far you are talking about it, and so it is still difficult to see this change as spring in Poland. So that we will support this project, we will vote in favour, because it is necessary and somehow corrects the situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u268	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke to present the position of the Confederate circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u269	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Confederation will vote in favour of this project because it is a step in the right direction. Too bad it's so small, but in the right direction. On this occasion, I would like to say a few words about aviation. Well, ladies and gentlemen, how many airmen are there in Poland? Percent, radius? Less. This isn't an electorate. No party is gonna get behind them because it's not an electorate. Ladies and gentlemen, I remember from history that. In the battle for England, how many people owe their lives to so few pilots. They played an extremely important role not only physically, but as an object of dreams. I remember reading Makuszyński's book The Winged Boy. Soon all the guys will be flying drones, flying air platforms, so raising love for flying is extremely important, extremely important. It is socially important to promote these attitudes. Airmen are special people, these are people who are not afraid of the risks that fly constantly risk their lives. And it's beautiful, it's a pattern. For young men to dream of being airmen. Airmen are ruled, also in ULC, by bureaucrats whose goal is not freedom and risk at all, but security. I understand that this is important for the passengers of big planes, they don't want to wonder whether the pilot is good or not, they want a pilot determined, but it's deadly for the development of aviation as such, because it starts with something small, not right away from big passenger planes. A pilot like that should fly gliders first, on small planes, then on big ones. It must be a man who likes and appreciates the risk. Bureaucracy eliminates this risk and kills... pours out a baby with a bath. Ladies and gentlemen, the Polish aviation industry does not exist as a result of regulations that make this bureaucracy impossible to break. Poland has wonderful pre-war aviation traditions, and the Czechs, a small country, now have aviation, aviation industry at a much higher level, because they do not have the bureaucracy we have. We just didn't completely kill the spirit of this industry, we kill the spirit of aviation. We need to drastically reduce red tape. I flew small planes and in Poland and abroad. The amount of recipes is incredibly great, it is absolute disbelief in man, and yet belief that the recipe will help something. I heard in the O.R. that there had to be rules, because there were no rules, and they had to be introduced. Well, no, ladies and gentlemen, we have too much legislation right now and we are alienating people who are going abroad and can fly there. Sometimes they will return to Poland with these skills. Going back to this bill, if someone wants to carry air assistance, it's very good, you have to enjoy it, you have to help, not put up dozens, I repeat, dozens of additional requirements that a man has to meet. You have to accept some risks. These people are risking their lives. You have to understand, this is a grown man who's risking his life. You think he'll be scared of the rules if he's not afraid of losing his life? This man needs to be trusted because the airmen are risking their lives. It can't be that bureaucrats interfere with their personality development, their skills development. It is extremely important for our country to have this 1 radius or less, but people who are not afraid, who awaken in us the thought of the sky, maybe in the future also space, give us a chance to separate from everyday life. These are the people we're smothering. These are the people I wanted. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm gonna ask you to do it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u270	Thank you very much, sir. Three Members joined the questions. Is there anyone else who would like to join us? If not, I close the list by setting the time to ask a question for 1 minute. I ask Mr Konrad Frysztak, the Civic Coalition, to ask a question. I don't think he's here. There isn't? This is Mrs Marta Wcisło. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u271	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a government bill - Aviation law, which aims to allow for the authorisation of high-risk commercial flights, is about aircraft and helicopters. My question is: How will these regulations affect the safety and functioning of small regional airports such as Lublin? Does the Ministry provide for the creation of fire bases, fire bases.? Have they been analyzed in this regard? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u272	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Maciej Lasek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u273	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The procedated amendment in print No 986 mentioned that high-risk operations could be performed by aircraft or helicopters in a special category. In accordance with the Regulation on technical regulations and operation concerning aircraft in the special category, such aircraft may not be used for payment by aircraft or helicopters constructed amateurally. It must be built by some company. There are also certain categories, the conditions to be met in order to reclassify this aircraft into a special category. E.g. the engine may not have a type-certificate, lose this type-certificate. As these are high-risk operations, this is a kind of threat. I would like to receive information from the Minister here as to whether there have been analyses of the risks of carrying out such operations on aircraft which are (the bell) in the special category, i.e. they do not even have this national certificate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u274	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Mr Marcin Horala, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, to respond. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u275	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will try to answer these specific questions here. The first - in Mr Kwiatkowski's statement concerning sightseeing flights from the airport to Bemów. There is a specified route in the VFR standard. Of course, all those who perform these flights must have the appropriate certificate to carry out such flights. That's it, actually. If you have information that someone has done it without such a certificate, you simply have broken the law and I ask you to make a proper notification on this matter. As far as I'm concerned, cases like this haven't happened, but as usually happens, before we know anything about it, we don't know it first. So once again, if there was any information like that, I'm asking you to give it to me. As far as the issue of shields and categories is concerned, it was indeed originally covered by this current shield by air personnel who registered in the PKD in a manner, I would say, adequate, i.e. as services supporting air transport. PKD 51.10. Z is PKD carriers. A pilot with a single business activity is not a carrier. However, in view of the facts, our Ministry of Development reported to the Ministry of Development that in the next update of the shield it would also be covered by this PKD. We'll see. We're pre-trial on this version. I hope it's taken into account. But here we have to point out that this registration wasn't 100%. It's correct and that's why the problem has arisen. Mrs Wcisło asked how this bill would affect the state of security. She will, of course, be quite neutral, that is to say, maintain this state of security as she is so far. It's not a big scale. These ships are rather old-age, they are about 20 aircraft, but they are a fire function, they are a function and we do not see the need for them to stop so suddenly, day by day. Hence the need for this amendment. Here are all the comments on the legislative process. The State may have had a slightly different interpretation, but it was already right to state the facts, that is to say, it was part of a major revision of the Aviation Law, which we are working on: a large, complicated one, primarily requiring comments from various institutions. Therefore, this work continues and continues and there was a need for this one regulation to be turned off as a matter of urgency for a separate procedure. And Mr Maciej Chase's question about safety analysis for these special flights. These are extremely rare cases, and if necessary, of course the Civil Aviation Authority will analyze this by issuing a certificate and allowing such aircraft to take such flights. So there's nothing to analyze in abstracto the whole potential situation, because inconcreto is an aircraft that will be analyzed before it's approved for this type of flight before the ULC certificate gets it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u276	Thank you very much, Minister. Would the rapporteur like to speak?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u277	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to repeat this opinion, which was delivered by Minister Marcin Horala at the committee meeting, in response to questions about the sources of this point amendment. Mr Lasek also asked about this. This opinion and information by the Minister concerned the very broad revision of the Aviation Law, which will enter into Parliament's proceedings in a relatively short time. As the 2018 amendment overlooks the issue of the renewal of allowances for these aircraft under national regulations, such a short amendment to the Aviation Law is as necessary from the point of view of the objectives that it regulates, i.e. those high-risk operations, especially when such operations eliminate fire risks. We are talking here about the parts of those aircraft that participate in such operations, regardless of the fact that this type of aircraft is already in the quotation marks. Of course, this regulation is a national regulation. All other provisions should be respected very rigorously, in a good way. The Civil Aviation Authority shall supervise this. As a multi-annual Member of the Committee on Infrastructure and former Minister of Transport, I would answer one of my previous speakers that is why there are so few aviation incidents or, above all, serious accidents, that these pilots' powers of all kinds or aircraft certification are a rule in countries that are civilized countries. Secondly, the formulation of these rules, which are in the area of the regulated economy, is also of international importance for the recognition of very many powers, in particular pilots, not only in the country but also abroad. Therefore, we can say that, as a parliament, we must also ensure that regulations or future amendments to the Aviation Law maintain, first of all, very high safety of flights in civil aviation or in this respect, which is specifically regulated by this law, concerning aircraft involved in fire and fire-fighting operations in particular. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u278	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft law amending the Act on the suspension of the sale of property of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and on the amendment of certain laws (prints No 1003 and 1006). I ask Mr Kazimierz Starowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u279	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It has been my privilege to present a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft law amending the law on the suspension of the sale of the property of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and on the amendment of certain laws, print No 1003. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 12 March 2001, the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for first reading. The Commission carried out its first reading at its meeting on 15 March 2021 and examined the draft law. The project concerns the extension of the period of suspension of the sale of the agricultural property of the Treasury by 5 years, i.e. until 30 April 2026. The reason is that on April 30, the five-year period for which the law was adopted is over. The period of these 5 years caused the sale of land to disappear on the so-called. the pole, the purchase price of the land has stabilised. Three amendments were tabled during the examination of the draft law. The first amendment concerned the extension of the lease to 7 years, the second amendment concerned annual reporting by the National Agricultural Support Centre on land lease, and the third amendment concerned the entry into force of the Act on 30 April and not on 1 May. Amendments 1 and 2 were rejected and the third were accepted. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development requests the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law contained in print No 1006. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u280	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And you will be the first to speak by Mr Jan Duda, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u281	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present the position of the club on the draft law submitted by the government amending the law on the suspension of the sale of the property of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and on the amendment of certain laws, print No 1003. The law, which we are currently working on, was adopted and entered into force on 14 April 2016 and was a response to numerous protests by farmers, rural communities, who demanded that the sale of the agricultural land of the Treasury for purposes not entirely linked to agricultural production be discontinued. I will mention here some: several months of protests in Western Pomerania, a national agricultural protest organized by the Solidarity of Individual Farmers under KPRM, from January to May 2015 called a popularly green town. The law adopted by the Sejm in 2016 which provides the basis for the management of agricultural land for the lease of agricultural land was very well adopted by farmers and is a good law that protects the land which is intended primarily for agricultural production. The period of validity shall end in April this year. and this is what the government's proposal is about, which extends the duration of its operation for another 5 years. High Seym! Law and Justice, which was the author of these good practices, fully supports the draft presented by the government and will vote in favour of its adoption at third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u282	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Piotr Boris, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u283	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are discussing one of the most important laws in terms of issues of the agricultural system, although it is a law which is only supposed to automatically shift some restrictions in terms of the possibility of selling agricultural land in Poland. The law on stopping the sale of real estate ends in April this year. But we are not really able today, despite our requests, to discuss the whole of this law, to subject it to careful control, to draw appropriate conclusions to think about how to program the future period. You just want to automatically move the functioning of this law by 5 years, aside from the agricultural system law, which actually laid down the rules of operation. Let me remind you that we're talking more than 1,300,000. ha agricultural land, of which 1067 thousand. Ha's on lease today. The essence of this law was to rule in the State Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury over two elements: firstly, to protect against speculation about the purchase of land especially by foreigners, because I would remind you that we had a 12-year period of protection after entering the European Union, secondly, so that the market would regulate so that this market would give opportunities for the development of family farms. Meanwhile, the number of land sold to foreigners increased by 227% from 2015 to 2020. Let me remind you: 2015 is 412 ha, 2019 is 1349 ha, so in this respect the law does not actually protect. Secondly, while prices in the agricultural resources of the State Treasury remained stable, market prices of 1 ha increased on average to more than 47 thousand. PLN for 1 ha, and in some regions up to 60,000. So it is not really possible to verify whether this law has protected the prices of agricultural land in this private circulation when it comes to the purchase by farmers. Often these prices are sluggish and do not allow farmers to develop their own farms. So, in this regard, the bill does not fully meet expectations. That is why we expect you to have it at the beginning of a full discussion and then, after evaluation, draw specific conclusions and proceed on it. You give too little time, because today the Senate has 30 days, President 21, the bill will probably return to the Sejm and we may miss it, so we're going to proceed again at the last minute. This is not the case for a very serious law which decides - I stress - over a million agricultural land, i.e. Not like this. We demand a discussion first. Another thing. We have tabled a request for a debate on the agricultural system, namely we believe - this is the request of the majority of agricultural chambers and farmers - to exempt from the ban the possibility of selling land up to 5 ha, because most of the transactions, more than 13 thousand, which have entered the agency, into KOWR, concern small land, up to 3.3 ha. In fact, the Agency has crowded itself with these small proposals rather than protecting the most important things, thus protecting the larger area of land from speculation, just from the acquisition by de facto unauthorised persons. Thus, in this respect, we believe that it should be possible to exempt the land to 5 ha from this embargo on purchase, in fact, without the KOWR's original purchase, and without appropriate consent. Another issue relates primarily to the attachment of the farmer to the land. Well, a farmer should do his own work, not necessarily being attached to the land in the municipality in order to be able to buy land. Another point is the question of the powers of the Church and the religious unions that we have analysed. The next issue concerns the de facto extension of leases, which primarily prevent farmers from purchasing the relevant land. This is a barrier. especially for young farmers who may possibly lease and cannot purchase land. The lease has become a basic resource management function, and it does not really allow the development of family farms. Another issue concerns issues related to our amendments. Well, we would like to make two amendments, on which we make the adoption conditional on the support of this law. Namely, the first amendment is to extend the law by 2 years, not by 5 more, so that we still have time for appropriate analysis and such transformations in this law, which would actually give the possibility for native farmers to buy land and at the same time allow for the development of farms. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The second amendment will be linked to the annual presentation by the Minister of Information to the High Sejm of the implementation of this law. The Sejm has the right to know and control what the implementation of this law looks like. The adoption of these two amendments is subject to appropriate support or voting against. I'm putting these two amendments into your hands. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u284	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Marcin Kulask, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u285	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Government of Law and Justice has made efforts to halt the rise in agricultural land prices. As shown by the GUS data also quoted by the Ministry of Agriculture in the explanatory memorandum, these are futile efforts. Prices of agricultural land in Poland are rising, although not as fast as in past years, but rising. This is mainly influenced by the amendment of the Act of 11 April 2003 on the shaping of the agricultural system. You changed this law dramatically in April 2016. Then a few more times, you decided to amend it. You have introduced unprecedented restrictions on agricultural land trading in Poland, although you have released your allies from them, especially the Church. The amendment of the 2016 agricultural system law has indeed slowed down the rise in agricultural land prices. Detention of the sale of the State's agricultural land on the market has had a much smaller impact. On the other hand, this was a rational solution. The country should not sell out the agricultural land that belongs to it. You can sell it once. A land lease can be used for years by the state. Therefore, agricultural land should be leased and not sold. However, fair, safe and stable conditions for these leases are essential. Farmers must have a long, stable prospect of safe leases of agricultural land if they are to develop their commodity holdings. There's a lot to be done in this field. The National Agricultural Support Centre should be cleared of political nominations. But that's a post-election assignment. PiS will not give up Byzantium, which he built himself, from an institution whose headquarters are located in Warsaw in two locations: at ul. Karol and Inflancka. It wouldn't be weird if it was on the street. Inflancka wasn't practically empty. He admitted this in response to my interpellation by former Minister Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski. He revealed that the rental of the office, after which the wind hula, cost Poles in 2019 6700 thousand. zł. This mess is gonna have to be cleaned up. Today, a simple, technical decision must be taken to protect the country's agricultural property. Therefore, the Left Club will support the bill submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u286	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u287	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will present the position of the Polish Coalition club vis-à-vis the draft law, which is actually an extension of the provisions adopted in 2016. This is the moment when it is worth leaning over the assessment of the solutions adopted at that time. We, I would like to remind you, were presenting a number of amendments at the time, a number of changes which, as we thought, could significantly improve this law and, above all, not hinder the marketing of private land in Poland, do not hinder the transfer of the farm to successors. Unfortunately, the arrogance of the rule of law and justice at that time led to the law being adopted in its form. Later, she was changed several times, as if taking into account the issues we raised. Today, on the occasion of this amendment, it is worth once again to draw attention to several entries, several points in which this law practically does not work or does not implement the provisions which were then set out in it. The first, flagship argument that was raised at the time - it is necessary to make the quantity of land sold to foreigners decreased. Statistics, when it comes to recent years, are unfortunately ruthless. The land was not stopped for foreigners. We can also see that in recent years it has increased strongly - the average in the period of the governments of PO and PSL was 511 ha, the average in the government of PiS is over 700 ha. The record year was 2019 - nearly 1350 ha was sold to foreigners legally. In this respect, this law absolutely failed to meet the expectations it had set before it. I just want to remind you that we, in 2015, as the Polish People's Party, presented our own project, which was much more effective in this respect, was much more protective of the Polish land. I will mention other factors that were discussed at the time. Namely, it was about stopping the sale of state land and at the same time creating tools for individual farmers to freely buy land in free circulation. We said at the time that there were too many restrictions proposed. Unfortunately, this proved true in practice. Individual farmers have problems with the free purchase of land in private trade. There is no need for the National Agricultural Support Centre to interfere in many cases. The notaries are talking about it, and those who are involved in land trading are talking about it, that is, buyers and sellers. What caused this? This led to the fact that the land in private trade was very expensive in relation not only to year-to-year, but to the time before the law was in force. Today it's about 47,000. PLN for 1 ha of land in private trade. What does that mean? This means that many owners of farms who wish to expand their area to better prepare themselves economically for market realities, not only cannot buy land from a state resource - sometimes this land from a state resource is located right next to the farm - but also has a problem with the free purchase of land from private resources. Often the price - 47 thousand. PLN is only an average price, it often reaches up to 100,000. zł - is a barrier for farms It's unpassable. Those who risk buying land in this price range do not have a guarantee that they will receive income from their holding that will make it economically viable. This law stopped you from trading private land, so you also stopped the favorable trend of expanding the average area of farms in Poland over the years. This, of course, is economically bad, it hits the farms economically. Finally, it could be considered whether the law has caused - I would say that it has caused - restrictions on other investments in rural areas. The Act on the shaping of the agricultural system which cooperates with this law makes it virtually impossible to carry out housing investments in rural areas and many others due to the parameters presented regarding the issue and size of parcels traded. At that time we also pointed out that a farmer who does not have successors, and has e.g. Anyone willing to buy his land, settle on his land, there is no way to sell the land because there are no buyers, the buyer's market is limited. Thus, in many places in Poland the civilizational development of the Polish village is hindered. This is another mistake of this bill. The law in many places is too restrictive when it comes to private land trading. It is too much for you to enter into the interests of operators in this market and that is why we are making an amendment. We want the law to cover only land above 5 ha, and all agricultural land below 5 ha are exempted from restrictions. In our view, this will restore the trend of farm growth, freedom to trade in private land and civilizational development. [[♪ The bell ♪]] many areas [[Applause]] rural, thanks to the introduction of such investors not necessarily related to agriculture. The final vote on the draft depends on the support of this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u288	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Michael Urbaniak, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u289	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are dealing with a simple extension of the law already in force, which in principle is intended to protect - at least in theory - Polish land, among others. before the foreign buyout. That would, of course, seem like the right direction. The question is how do you achieve these objectives. We're still talking about the part that's in the hands of the state. Give, Lord God, that politicians who are responsible for the Polish state today be guided by Polish interests instead of the particular ones that we can see in the media recently. We also understand the need to extend the suspension of the sale of land from the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury. We understand that, but the issue is very ambivalent. We do not understand, however, what is the point of maintaining the rules - if we are talking about extending this law, we refer to the whole - which limits the ability of Poles to buy agricultural land, who are not farmers by education, but maybe they would like for example. Start growing it or just having it. The property of the land is part of the perfect protection of subsequent generations of Poles in material terms. Today's bans... The government often referred to the fact that these prohibitions and restrictions on the sale of land were introduced because many Poles, instead of using the ZUS, would probably flee to the KRUS. I wouldn't blame them if the ZUS contribution was $1.5,000. PLN per month. So maybe we should talk about it, look at it the wrong way. Leave Polish land in Polish hands - of course. Perhaps it is worth working on changing the entire bill. The Confederation also opts to eliminate ZUS or KRUS at all and introduce a civic pension that would allow for the release of some of the Poles' money, and thus would allow for the natural collection of private savings. And maybe that would cause you not to have such an argument: because Poles will now run to the KRUS instead of sitting in the ZUS. The U.S.S. is, of course, to be wound up in this case. This would allow effective and perhaps easier use of Polish land, and you would lose this argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u290	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u291	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The number of idiots I heard in this discussion requires at least an hour of straightening, because these are really idiots. Ladies and gentlemen, if the price of the land falls five times, all Polish farmers will become five times poorer and not richer. This is the first, elementary thing. Secondly, if a farmer has a piece of land and someone else wants to start a farm, he will become a competitor for this farmer. If this land is converted into non-agricultural land, it is beneficial for this farmer, of course, and not unfavorable. Third, selling land to foreigners. Well, my family moved from Sweden through Hessen, Saxony to Poland. If she could not buy land in Poland, my uncle would die in the battle of Bzura as the commander of the brigade Hermann Göringa, not as the commander of the 15th regiment of Greater Poland. So that's the result of these things. Ladies and gentlemen, when I was a Member of the Council of 30 years ago, we adopted a law aimed at privatising the land as soon as possible. The assumption was that in three years the whole earth would finally become private. And I said from the stand that night that it would last at least 20 years. It didn't occur to me that it would last 30 years, and the land would still be state-owned. Mr Aristotle has already said that the tenant will ruin the estate. Must be the owner, because he doesn't think about getting caught up in five years' rent and then leaving ruined land and running away. Sir, there must be a landlord, not a tenant, it's some kind of... The landlord is the state. How do you care, sir, about your property? Look at the train stations and you'll know what state property looks like. Well, excuse me. I repeat, this is nonsense for nonsense. Mr. Złenski, his Excellency Włodzimierz Złenski wanted to do private land in Ukraine and it met with terrible resistance, but they lived under communism for 7 years longer than Poles. Poles in 1956 showed that they wanted the land to be private and manage it. You would like to introduce this communism, and PiS, of course, is behind it because PiS is a communist party and wants to do exactly what was done in communism. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u292	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u293	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Kukiz Circle15 - Democracy Direct position on the Act amending the Act on the Stopping Sale of Agricultural Property Resources of the Treasury and on the amendment of certain laws. This law is a tribute to one of the few promises of Law and Justice made in the 2015 election campaign in the field of agriculture. Mr Duda was very well and comprehensively reporting on why this law was introduced, as farmers in 2014 and 2015 feared that the land would be displayed on the free market and that they would not be able to buy the land. Because in Western Europe the land is more expensive three or four times or six times as in the Netherlands. Hence, there was a great concern that farmers would not be able to expand and develop their farms. Why are so many countries protecting the earth? Why does the land have this special status? This is because this is one of the three factors of production that cannot be multiplied. This is a factor in production that we lose every year. On the other hand, we build new roads, build houses or various recreational areas. This is the reason that the land is under special protection in all countries. At the same time, I wanted to see two things. Not in all countries much richer than Poland, the land is more expensive. In Finland, Sweden and even France, land is cheaper. And here we would like to ask ourselves why in France the land is cheaper than in Poland. This is perhaps because they have a law on the family farm, that it is known that the land is not a speculative factor. The earth is a factor that should be permanent, indivisible, so that the economic viability of the farm is guaranteed. Now it has been invented in Poland that the lease will be used here, and this is a good way, if you agree to it. Only that he would be a good way, just like in France, where the land is leased. After all, these barons from the 15th century or 16th century, who own this land, often do not grow it, but lease it. But they lease for 20, 30, 40 years. Then there is what my esteemed previous speaker said - man, farmer takes care of this land. And right now, as we have these short leases that we heard about yesterday on the committee, at least on the social side, who's gonna be worth investing in the ground to increase caries, hydration, like he doesn't know if he's gonna be running the land in three years? You're bragging about the bill that you stopped the rise in land prices. Yes, sir. You'd just have to think why this increase in land prices isn't so big. Maybe it's because you're making a problem with the demand for this land. Young people don't want to stay in the country. Young people, seeing these price fluctuations, the hard work of their parents, who don't know if what they're planting next year will be able to sell, won't want to stay there. And here's the call again for you to fulfill your pre-election promise and improve the cooperative bill, the cooperative act, so that these people... Poland before World War II thanks to cooperatives on these small farms was doing very well. This is a very important thing we should be talking about right now. I am glad that the rapporteur spoke about the fact that the sale for posts has disappeared, but I do not know if those are not words, because that is not what we heard in the committee yesterday - that there are still people on various types of tenders. So, let me repeat, the earth as a specific good must be treated specifically. Long lease, family farm or active farmer law and agricultural extension. Because the fact that for many years the profitability was not, the stability was not, led to the enormous debt of farmers. And that's the price that young people prefer to go to town and work in corporations than this uncertain fate and bankruptcy in the country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u294	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u295	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Since the introduction of this law, five years ago, when we were restricting, or actually you were restricting the marketing of agricultural land, I have made it clear that the restriction of real estate trading should have, if any, a logical justification and indicate limited parameters. What you have done is you have created a law that gives the Minister and his subordinate agency directors enormous opportunities to decide who can acquire the land in Poland and who can't, which causes the emergence of a huge space to abuse and snort the land, [[Applause]] handing it over and selling it in the hands of their closest associates, surroundings. But looking back, in those five years, the record of the tightening of agricultural land hasn't produced any effects that you talked about five years ago. First, did the earth stand or keep its price? Welcome to Wielkopolska. No. The average rose from 38 to 47,000. zł/ha. I'm talking about private trade, of course. Let us not talk about this turnover, which has practically been marginalized or stopped, because KOWR does not actually sell land. We're talking about private trade. In Wielkopolska - we have just spoken to you here - this price can reach up to 100,000. zł/ha. Really look at the transactions and see if anything has changed in this regard. No. Is the land in the hands of foreigners? It was already calculated from the average of 500 ha - 700, the record year - 1350. This shows best that in this respect, too, this law has not changed anything. Of course, agricultural land must be protected from construction, from developers, but there were completely different mechanisms and factors. This must be done because the fertile land must give us food and we must protect it, we have it to a limited extent, but there are completely different elements of state control. That's why... it should be expensive. What's the worst part? The fact that nothing has actually changed in terms of building competitive advantages for our farms. What one of your fellow Members has said here. Yeah, young people are running away today, among other things. because farming in Poland is associated with an increasing number of uncertainties, a worse paid job, one can say, and more economic uncertainty. Also, the fact that the average size of agricultural holdings in Poland has not changed in 5 years is causing this. If today's average is 11 ha - and it's probably far from dominant, because it's overgrown by large farms, especially those in the west - how can we talk about competing with larger, much larger farms in the West? You said you wanted to build medium-sized farms. It doesn't exist, it doesn't change. We do not build medium-sized farms in Poland that could maintain the level of agriculture that has been said so much. Also the situation of the fact that lease agreements are signed for very short periods, does not encourage investment in these farms, does not encourage maintenance, investment in the land itself, but also in infrastructure, efficiency improvement, etc., because someone who has an annual 2-year lease agreement will avoid more investment. All of this will result in a transfer of all these risks for another five years. I will make another amendment, the aim of which is to remove from the Act on the relationship of the State to the Catholic Church in the Republic of Poland, the repeal of the article. 70a, which is in line with the demands of Poland 2050, means ordering the relationship between the state and the Church. This is a recipe that says that the Church can get land free of charge on the Recovered Lands. This is the Law (The Bell) of 17 May 1989. Today we are introducing a provision that allows us to transfer, sell this land because of social factors. And it seems to us that this provision will be sufficient, and the one from 1989 lost his legitimacy a long time ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u296	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If so, please. If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition. One minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u297	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Farmers! The government supports you, so supports you, so appreciates and so develops the Polish village, that it has prepared for you once again a law that stops agricultural land trading, which is 1300 thousand. ha agricultural land. Already today, agricultural areas such as Lubelszczyzna, from which I come, cannot develop because they have a brake on. Farmers say they won't invest because they have limitations. But you leave the gate, you leave the premise. This is a condition which is enshrined in the Act as a socio-economic one. I'm asking the Minister and the government, who's the reason and why it's so imprecisely written down. Is such imprecise writing laws, the type of double-crossing, something and a service to someone? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I want to know. The Civic Coalition therefore makes an amendment to the bill. We want a report every year. But of course, you don't agree to that. What are you trying to hide? Poles have the right to know who and for how much the State Treasury land is sold. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u298	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u299	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are investigating a bill that is to exclude the possibility of selling agricultural land belonging to the State Treasury. In principle, we are only proceeding over it to extend the duration of this ban for a further 5 years. Why are we investigating him right now? Because we're on a deadline, right? In April, the law will expire. And I have the indisputable impression that we are doing this very unintelligently, because we do not answer the basic questions, whether all these assumptions, whether all the problems that this law was about to implement, or whether it actually excludes them. Was the sale of land limited to foreigners? It is not limited, on the contrary, it has been increased. Was the price reduced for 1 ha in free circulation? It hasn't been reduced, it's bigger. I ask you and urge you to support this amendment (the bell) which we, as a club, declare to extend the validity of this law for 2 years and at that time actually substantively, to examine in depth the effects of this law and to ensure that these effects are not negative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u300	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u301	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to draw attention to another problem, because KOWR is willing to exercise the right of first-emption in transactions between farmers. More and more farmers report to me with such a problem and ask what it is to serve. A farmer who wants to buy land from a neighbor can't develop his own farm, and KOWR buys it to lease it to his own. Is that supposed to lead to nationalization again? Do we need more PGRs or kolchozas? You use some mechanisms the same way, but it's time to think about it and put these bad practices out of business because farmers want to grow, especially young farmers. And in areas where there is hunger for the earth, that is a huge problem. When will that change, Minister? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u302	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Lech Kołakowski, a non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u303	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In general, agricultural land should be the property of the farmer - the one who sowes, sowes and cultivates on it, as a sine qua non condition. I understand that the leases, the bill are fixed on time. Perhaps, Minister, the time will come to change these rules and, following the votes, which would stabilise the position of the Polish farmer, the sustainability of the farm, increasing the stockiness, consider even the 20-year leases that would stabilise these farms. I would also like to ask the Minister to consider this when it comes to these smallest areas of land, whether it is up to 3 ha or up to 5 ha, so that after a thorough analysis [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ministries allow the possibility to sell. [[Applause]] And if your marshal will allow me, I have questions. We are talking about the fact that foreigners buy Polish land. I have questions. Does the Polish government, the Polish state provide for the possibility, whether the resort has information about the possibility of renting and purchasing to the west and east of our borders, in particular in border lanes directly adjacent? This would apply to individual farmers, as well as to groups of farmers who in the former GDR whether in the East they could lease hundreds or thousands of hectares, strengthening Polish agriculture, Polish farms. If it were possible, I would ask for a written reply. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u304	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Artur Łącki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u305	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When in 2016 PiS passed this law, most of the population said that it was a law that was really unconstitutional, because it divides society into those who can acquire the land and those who cannot acquire the land. There's a lot more to those who aren't allowed. Those who were even allowed to acquire this land or work on this land, this law took away the possibility of deciding their own property because they couldn't do anything about it. When I found out there was gonna be an amendment, I thought that after five years, the PiS saw that this bill had failed to meet any of the conditions that it was supposed to fulfil, and that it would withdraw. But unfortunately, no, they're moving on. And I wondered why. Short bill, short two points. When I read it, it was clear. Point 2 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h) b: The Minister responsible for rural development, at the request of the Director-General of KOWR, may sell the land to someone Lithium. c: These important economic considerations will not be covered by the Sejm, which will be voted on by the Sejm, but by the Director of KOWR. So we know what's going on. Ladies and gentlemen, you would like to sell this land, especially west of the Vistula: half to the Church, and the other half to all the Obiets from you, all the Obiets, their aunts, their cousins, their grandmothers, their grandparents, because they've already caught on to the B &amp; Bs, now they want the arable land. This cannot be the case, Minister, that this bill will not enumerately show why the Director of KOWR may sell this land to persons other than those laid down in the Act. This should be written down. That should be decided by the Sejm, not by the president of KOWR. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u306	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u307	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will ask the same question that I asked yesterday during the committee meeting, to which I did not receive an answer: What is the reason why you submitted this draft law so late? Unless it's about not having time to pass this bill, as it was in the previous days, to have them two, three days to make their chess machine, whether it's alcohol, whether it's the VCRs they brought, they bought here. We knew five years ago that we were going to extend this bill. You knew that before the election because that was the promise. You're filing a bill on March 11th. At a non-regular time, the state is proceeding over this law by imposing regulations. Tomorrow we will vote on this bill. So from March 18th, the Senate will certainly bend over this bill for a full 30 days, because it will wonder what you were trying to hide. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The president will have 12 days to sign the bill. Where is the respect for the head of state that comes from your environment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u308	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u309	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, I would like to ask for a solution which is in the Law on the Management of the Treasury's resources and provides that, with the agreement of the Minister responsible for agriculture, land may be transferred free of charge from the stock, firstly, to local government units for the specified infrastructure investments listed in the Act, but also to social infrastructure. How many decisions have been made in the last four years? Secondly, there is such an interesting record that land can also be transferred to 2 ha at the request of an unemployed person without the right to the allowance which is intended for deforestation. Have such requests been examined by those unemployed persons without entitlement to the benefit? Eventually, how many of these lands have been transferred? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one last thing. I would also like to request a list of the last 3 years of the decision to transfer free of charge the State Treasury's resources to the public benefit organisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u310	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u311	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A simple question to the representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture who sat so far away. They don't think our questions will reach them. Do you realize how much you make life difficult for people who want to live in the countryside, develop their farms? I inform you that these people know how they got into this trouble, that this law has just passed most of the Law and Justice. Not much, the pretext under which you undertook to change the Land Management Act is completely ridiculous, because statistics all know how much land was sold to foreigners many years ago, and how much, when you started ruling. The laws you've made have only conflicted people in the country, they've quarreled with those who live in the city, and they'd like to buy a piece of land in the country. Those who live in the countryside and want to continue working on the farm after their parents, this discourages them from working further (the bell), because they know that only smart people can buy land in Poland today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u312	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u313	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, the answer to the assessment of this law could be included in one sentence: sacred property right. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the best way to ensure that these farms are developing. I understand that the state is trying to look for some indirect solutions, perhaps to young farmers this is a solution. I don't understand. Minister! If you want to extend this, show how the 2016 Act was implemented, if these assumptions have been implemented. Please respond in writing. Minister, I am afraid that unfortunately this password is just a slogan, not a real agricultural policy that should be implemented. And maybe enough of this, you finally have to eliminate the KOWR, hand it over to the old days, because that was a long time ago, because this resource is already really small and the old people can handle it completely. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u314	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Piotr Boris, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u315	Dear Marshal! When it comes to the welfare of farmers, it is about the possibility of increasing the resources of native farms, young farmers, we want to be constructive. Therefore, to the amendment concerning the extension of the law for a further 2 years, but conditionally, as well as to the amendment on the mandatory amendment report, we still want to make an amendment, which was already mentioned today, to exempt agricultural land with an area of up to 5 ha from this law. This will allow farmers, especially small farmers, to be able to acquire land, buy land, expand their farms, this is an important issue. At the same time, it will relieve KOWR from over 13 thousand. Small cases so that KOWR can focus on the most serious things, the protection of the agricultural property of the State Treasury. That is why this amendment will be complex. This amendment and the other two amendments will be subject to the support of this law (the bell) or voting against it, which is why we ask the Minister to take a constructive approach to our proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u316	Thank you very much, sir. And the last question will be asked by Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u317	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Earth, agricultural land is an invaluable resource, a national value that cannot be replicated, multiplied, she, as one of the Members said, can only be reduced. That is why it is very good that in 2016 a law was introduced that slowed down price speculation and the sale of this last national good, which is the Polish land, and today we are extending and updating this law. You've talked a lot about property, about sacred property. I have a question, Minister. Does this law provide for the possibility for a Polish farmer who leases the land of the State Treasury in the near future? Will he be able to redeem this land? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u318	Thank you very much, sir. Please answer the questions of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Minister Simon Giżyński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u319	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Many of your fellow Members have asked for a written reply. It will be because, as always, at such a request clearly stated... There is then an opportunity to meet your expectations, all the more so since the questions were in the vast majority, or at least part of them, as discussed by individual Members, very detailed and concerned extremely exclaimable issues, so the written reply formula will be the most appropriate. It will also be most appropriate not to answer these questions, which had a clear ideological subtext, and I will no longer touch these questions by delicacy, and to answer them, which were of a concrete nature. On the other hand, where there is a stem of substance or substance, regardless of the relationship to the law, I will try to answer completely adequately, regardless of the colour and tone of the statement, the relation to the law as a concrete substantive proposal. I think, in answer to Mrs Marta's question and doubts, that there is no need for such a legislative institution, in which we would introduce an obligation to recite practically the same every year, because there is an institution of parliamentary interpellation and other inquiries, where we are able to keep up to date to satisfy all your Members' interests in these and other problems, of course, contained in the matter of the law. There were some questions with pretensions that during the rule of this law the sale of land to foreigners increased. It should be remembered that only in 2016 this institution, the possibility was launched and in accordance with all regulations, including EU, Polish farmers, and only they, can sell land to foreigners. The Polish state itself limited this possibility and does not sell the land to foreigners, at least in the same dimension as was mentioned here in the form of a plea. Mr Stefan Krajewski from the Polish Coalition just wanted to remind you that KOWR has the right of first-hand buying when the buyer is not a farmer or is from outside a particular village, outside a specific municipality. Mr Lech Kołakowski will, of course, receive a written reply because he asked for it at the outset. Mr Artur Łącki - this is where there was a lot of such pretensions from the borders of ideology and conjecture - I want to say one thing: the law has fulfilled all expectations before it. Therefore, in the case of this formula in which we present it to the State, with the support of the largest agricultural government, such as agricultural chambers, as well as the solidarity of individual farmers and other organisations, we are calm about the right reception. Interest in this law and this formula is due to the fact that the law gives a stable basis to the lease institution. After all, we lease the land to farmers for 10 years, and the renewal or renewal of the lease is extended by 5 to 15 years, so it is a very functionally stable offer for Polish farmers. Mr Jarosław Sachajko regrets our (The Bell) insensitivity and disrespect for the head of state, that only 12 days will be left to think about whether to sign or not to sign. We are absolutely calm about the fate of this law, because it is not really controversial, it does not contain any ideas which by themselves interested would be protested. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we do not have such signals. On the other hand, today's discussion and today's pretensions, and today's but they were edited against the authors of this law according to very different, all kinds of, here present ideological matrices. It's not ideal, it's ideological. Because the bill has great ideological potential and it defends itself, and that's why it's accepted. Here, too, I think a big generalization... Get close to the end, Minister, because it's time. Secretary of State, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Simon Giżyński: Yes, thank you very much. I'm on my way. It seems to me that the big simplification, to put it mildly, I do not want to judge further, is the opinion of Mr Dariusz Klimczak, that at the moment only wise men can buy land in Poland. It's a literal quote. What the author really meant, please ask in individual mode. I would just like to remind Mr Peter Boris that tomorrow's committee will decide the fate of all the amendments, which are quite large, for which we thank and which we will debate tomorrow morning. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u320	Thank you. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Health Committee's report on the draft law amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of Infections and Diseases in People (Prints No 1004 and 1011). I ask Mr Paul Rychlik to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u321	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present a report to the Health Commission on the draft law amending the law on prevention and control of infectious infections and diseases in humans. Ladies and gentlemen! A few days ago, we celebrated an unpleasant anniversary for all of us: exactly a year ago, an epidemic was first introduced in our country, followed by an epidemic associated with SARS-CoV-2 infection. This most difficult period in post-war history of Poland has a chance to be completed thanks to the successful vaccination of Poles and Poles. This action has been carried out since the end of December of the previous year. As all parameters and indicators, and international institutions indicate, in Poland this process is one of the best in Europe and the world. In the current state of law, any person who undergoes vaccination before vaccination shall be qualified as a doctor to rule out contraindications to vaccination. In particular, given the need to involve doctors in the fight against the effects of the third wave of pandemics - but we must mention, ladies and gentlemen, that Poles were sick just as sick a year ago and today; of course, the work of doctors in the health care system, in POZ, in hospitals - as well as the increased delivery of these vaccines announced by vaccine producers, has become necessary to introduce provisions that will make this vaccination process more flexible. This is to be achieved by extending the catalogue of bodies authorised to carry out the qualification test. In addition to today's right to carry out this examination, only doctors will be able to be other persons who will be included in the relevant regulation of the Minister of Health. First of all, applicants are referring to well-educated Polish nurses and midwives. When determining the qualifications of the above-mentioned persons entitled to carry out the qualifying examination, the Minister of Health will be required to take into account the need to ensure the safety of those undergoing these vaccinations. Following the amendment of the statutory authorisation to issue the abovementioned Regulation to the Minister of Health, the draft contains a provision maintaining the existing implementing provisions until the date of entry into force of the provisions issued under the amended authorisation, but no longer than 6 months from the date of entry into force of the Act. Ladies and gentlemen! At the meeting of the Health Committee, a lively, very substantive discussion for which I would like to thank on behalf of the applicants ended with the adoption by an excellent majority of this bill, i.e. a positive opinion has been made on this draft law, as well as an automatic amendment which aims to extend the current lists of healthcare providers, i.e. to put it simply: hospitals located in the hospital network, until 31 December 2021, with the extension of the next deadline for the qualification of those healthcare providers on 1 October 2021. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u322	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Violetta Porowska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u323	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Law and Justice Club a position on the draft law amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of Human Infections and Diseases, print No 1004 and 1011. Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of the proposed law is to extend the circle of entities authorised to carry out a qualification test in order to rule out contraindications to the implementation of protective vaccination against COVID-19. The draft therefore amends Article. 21c Act of 5 December 2008 on the prevention and control of infections and infectious diseases, hereinafter referred to as the Act. At the moment, in accordance with the applicable regulations, only physicians may carry out qualification tests to rule out any contraindications to the vaccination against COVID-19. The amendment will also enable those performing certain other medical professions to carry out these tests. This requires that nurses and midwives are particularly qualified to carry out the studies in question at the moment. The qualification of persons other than doctors carrying out the qualification tests in order to exclude contraindications to the vaccination against COVID-19 will be indicated in an implementing act issued by the Minister responsible for Health pursuant to Article. 21c paragraph. 5th Bill. Therefore, the scope of the statutory authorisation provided for in that provision, which currently covers only the qualification of persons carrying out protective vaccination against COVID-19, has also been extended to determine the qualification of other persons carrying out the qualifying examination in order to rule out any contraindication to the vaccination against COVID-19. It must be stressed that, when determining the qualifications of persons authorised to carry out a qualifying examination, the Minister responsible for Health will be guided by the need to ensure the safety of persons undergoing this vaccination. Therefore, only representatives of certain medical professions will be entitled to carry out a qualifying examination to rule out a contraindication to the vaccination against COVID-19. In the context of the current epidemic and the social needs for the rapid and effective implementation of the vaccination process, the measures introduced by these drafts will have positive health and social effects, enabling preventive vaccination measures against COVID-19 to be carried out more efficiently. In turn, vaccination with most of the population as soon as possible is a key instrument in combating the COVID-19 pandemic. Therefore, the Law and Justice Club, considering the proposed regulations to be reasonable, reasonable and necessary for the health safety of Poles, recommends the adoption of a draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u324	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you, Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u325	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I would like to present a position on print No 1004, a draft law amending the Law on the Prevention and Prevention of Infections and Diseases. A recent amendment was also introduced to the Law on the prevention and control of infectious diseases, which was introduced in Article. 21c list of professions that can be vaccinated after completion of appropriate training. Today we have learned that these trainings have actually started since yesterday. However, the current amendment introduces a change that says that, in addition to a doctor, a patient may be eligible for vaccination... The question mark should be placed here, because under this law we do not know who can. It is only from the Health Minister's regulation that we will find out who can actually carry out these vaccinations. We have the assurance that they will only be representatives of certain medical professions, and we will know details no later than 6 months after the date of entry into force of this Act. Of course, if the Minister issues this regulation earlier, we will know earlier. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know whether the granting of such important powers, which actually often determine the patient's health and life, should appear in the regulation, but should not appear in the law and we as House should not decide that. If vaccination, i.e. vaccination itself, and the list of professions is included in the Act, then probably the more qualified vaccination should also be included in the Act. But I think it is also important, as the rapporteur mentioned, that the law adds an article. 1a and Article 1a 3, although in the name of the amendment of this law we will not find exactly what this article is talking about, and he is talking about shifting the deadline for eligibility of healthcare providers to so-called. hospital networks. Otherwise, the network would have to be qualified by 27 March, and most likely the Ministry of Health is not ready yet. But since, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to the Act concerns the COVID period, the Civic Coalition will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u326	Thank you very much, Member. And please, Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u327	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Left Club also analyzed the bill. This is a necessary project. We believe that this bill should be adopted long ago as perhaps not very important, but nevertheless an important tool for the Minister of Health, for the whole government in the fight against the epidemic, because time also matters. The predecessors have already said that we want to at least expand the number of people entitled to vaccination to include persons performing various professions that I will not mention, but we have them listed in the document. But before that, you have to organize training for these people, and this is the theoretical and practical part, so this, first of all, will last, and second of all, will separate the learners from working directly with the patients. We're in a situation where there's an epidemic on the one hand. Scaling this momentum our government didn't predict, because even if it didn't appreciate, sequencing in the right amount of virus variant, didn't appreciate its scale, and we already have dozens of percent of cases of British virus disease, I remind you, more infectious and unfortunately more dangerous, including lower age groups of patients. It's on one side. At the same time, he did not put it together with, however, less than we once thought, but a rapidly increasing supply of vaccines from the European Union. And this could happen - that's why I think it's too late - that on the one hand we're going to have a huge number of diseases, a huge shortage of doctors, nurses, not to mention other professional groups, and on the other hand, according to our obvious vital interest in public health, we're going to strive for a rapid vaccination of who we can and who we can. And this is where it can happen that the necessary doctors will continue to... It's hard to say that they're gonna be wasting their time, because they're doing a very useful job there, busy qualifying patients for vaccination, but they're gonna have to get away from the so-called. Sick beds. I know it from practice, I work in a clinic every day where we're doing vaccinations. We're doing fine for now, but what happens next, we don't know. On the other hand, there is vaccination - the other component. But I'm gonna finish discussing the first one. Although there were discussions at the Health Committee meeting - because it was here that the words should probably be amended and other laws so that not only the doctor can carry out qualifying tests before vaccination - but these were discussions of seymists, ministerial lawyers, and given that we have special times, it is probably not necessary to attach such importance to this. So we're in favour of this solution, and I'm saying it on behalf of the Left Club. Because at the same time there is the second component: Who will do these vaccinations? That's also a separate problem. He's got who to do it, we've got over $6,000. vaccination points. For now, we are dealing with this, and here I express my respect for our nurses, our doctors, that they are able to do these activities in addition. However, the future is unclear, which is why the Minister should have such a tool long ago. Therefore, we will end with some reservations, but we will strongly support this law amending the article. 21c paragraph. 5 Act on the prevention and control of infections and infectious diseases in humans. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u328	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Poland. I'm almost asleep. Exactly. If you want to say too much... Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u329	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Coalition Club Poland - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives has been seeking this amendment for a long time, and of course we have been the voice of all these medical circles, those environments that promoted the improvement of the vaccination process within not only COVID, but also influenza, as well as all those environments that do not want Poland to fall behind many countries of Europe, which are much better dealt with those issues we are, say, cautious about. We talked about this extension of the range of medical professions whose representatives may be eligible for vaccination, already at an opposition meeting with the Prime Minister when there was a major vaccination crisis when the Prime Minister asked for a meeting with the opposition. It was one of our demands. We are pleased that it has been implemented, even though there has been a declaration that this amendment will take place at the previous session of the Sejm, but better late than never. In general, we believe that this type of extension of a range of people qualifying for vaccination... This case should be dealt with at the beginning of the procedure for vaccination against COVID-19. Unfortunately, the scope of the extension concerns only vaccination against COVID-19. From the very beginning, we thought that it should also include influenza vaccination. This is generally more necessary for influenza vaccination than for vaccination against COVID-19. There is an opinion, among others. The National Programme for the Control of Influenza, nurses, family medicine consultant, the Polish Society of Vaccinology and many, many other people who know and are professionals on the subject. They recommended that this type of extension should also apply to influenza. At the meeting of the Committee on Health, I tried to make an amendment on this issue. Unfortunately, it didn't work. On the other hand, I received interesting answers from the representative of the Ministry of Health, the Deputy Minister, who assured us all, members of the Health Committee, that there will be two more amendments: the first concerning pharmacists and vaccinations in pharmacies, as well as the amendment concerning the qualification I mentioned for influenza vaccination by other medical professions than doctors. We take our word for it, and we hope that this issue will be resolved. Certainly we as a club of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party will participate in this work and we will support such activities. Thank you very much. Of course, our club will support this solution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u330	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u331	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, let's figure out what we're talking about. His Excellency Jair Bolsonaro, President of Brazil, declared that the coronavirus is such a bit worse flu. Was he wrong? When the flu epidemic was 100 years ago, it died of it - we don't know exactly - from 60 to 100 million people, only 2.5 million patients. This is a 1/30 influenza epidemic. Journalists, of course, are blowing it up because that's the time, but that's the proportion. Let's be aware of that. Ladies and gentlemen, how do we stand within this proportion? Our government has caused us to fight this coronavirus and fight it. Lockdowns, quarantines, no entry in the woods, no facials, no bans. In Sweden, however, it is only sometimes that high school was suspended. Indeed, there was no carnival in Rio in Brazil. Let's look at the results now, ladies and gentlemen. These are the results of the coronavirus fight. At the scene of the 24th death, the population is usually Brazil, out of 25. Sweden, on 26. Lithuania, on 27. Poland. The differences are in thousands of parts. Because 392 people died in Poland today, in Lithuania 5 and in Sweden 35, most likely in 2, 3 days we will chase Sweden, Brazil and Lithuania, i.e. all these restrictions are to nothing, they did nothing. And you don't have to say anything, because you called on the government to do more, which means the losses would be even greater. Only the Confederation voted a year ago against those idiotic laws that allowed the government to do lockdowns and looting. I repeat: this was all unnecessary. Moreover, Poland is in the first place in the world in the number of people who died for other reasons than the coronavirus over last year's indicators. As a result of the government's operations died - here are various estimates - from 40 to 70 thousand. People more than a year ago, so you killed those people. I'm talking to a government that's gone somewhere. It was the government that killed these people, and you wanted him to kill even more, because if the government did more, more people would die. You have to learn that, as a rule, when a government does something, the consequences are exactly the opposite of what the government wants. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear: I am not only speaking to your marshal now, to the government that is not there, and to all Members, but I am speaking to everyone. Do you realize that we're hypnotized that no one's talking about one thing: medicines for coritos? Everyone's talking about vaccines, and no one's talking about the cure. Why? Because the cure would only be sold to people who are sick, who aren't enough, and we'll sell the vaccines to everyone. It's a huge earner. Ask the government, I ask the government: Why doesn't the government produce the drugs for the coritos? The medications are. They're expensive so far, but in mass production they'd be cheaper. Why doesn't anybody do that? Can you answer that question? Why doesn't anybody make drugs? Winnicki's friend wanted to add very important things here. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u332	Please, Mr Robert Winnicki, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u333	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Medicine needs transparency, especially medicine during the epidemic, especially medicine at the highest level, it is about national consultants. We therefore demand information as to whether national consultants are linked to some agreements with large pharmaceutical companies, vaccine agreements or not - are they related? Because today information has appeared that one of the national consultants has been involved in an agreement with AstraZeneca since the middle of last year. This is written not by journalists connected with opposition media, but by those connected with government media. Ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be that doctors who decide on public health in Poland, scientists are [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's paid for by companies that make money on it. It's gotta stop. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u334	Thank you, sir. And please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u335	Mrs. Marshal! The Minister isn't here. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, A law extending the representatives of the various professional groups as entitled to research and qualification of patients or citizens in principle for vaccination is in today's conditions in which health care is functioning, expected and needed. I don't really understand why we're just talking about this in the Sejm today, why we didn't process this bill in October or November, when the government should really be preparing for the vaccination campaign, because it was already known that with the increasing number of vaccinations, with the third wave of pandemics there would be a shortage of hands to work in most medical areas and these qualifications need to be expanded. But of course we also need a change in many places of vaccination organisation. We have talked about this very often at the recent meetings of the Health Committee. I don't understand - and it was moved - why we're going to vaccinate... I would not, of course, like to add a number of misunderstandings and conflicts to society, but why we vaccinate university teachers who, according to the Minister of Health, are supposed to work remotely until September, and not vaccinate, for example. non-pedagogical staff in primary schools to which children today go - people who participate in the child feeding process or keep the facility clean and can spread the virus. These are the basic nuances that make today not necessarily vaccinate those - the same applies to the group of seniors versus the service - which we should, and we vaccinate those who are suddenly selected by the government for vaccination. But even more of a problem is the one we have on the horizon, the protest of residents, which may soon explode in connection with the suspension of the possibility of passing a state specialized exam. It's a pity the Minister isn't here today. You'll probably be the Prime Minister. I personally would like to hear what decided the Minister's decision to do, because given that we are talking about people who have been vaccinated, and given that for example. In January, a stationary examination for the judge's application was organised in Krakow, this decision seems completely unreasonable and completely thoughtless. If it actually leads to the fact that some doctors can walk away from beds, then we can't afford it. We are talking, reminding you, experienced doctors, often after 5, 6 years of working in bed with patients; we are talking about doctors who have spent the last months studying and preparing for the exam at the expense of work and family life; we are talking about the fact that some of them can simply unnecessarily prolong their learning period, be suspended and not be able to return or continue their work, because in many cases their further employment is dependent on obtaining the title of specialist. This shows another area in which the Minister is making some chaotic, perhaps reckless decision, which may have far-reaching consequences, and that the lack of hands to work today is a fundamental problem in the organisation of the fight against the epidemic on the first or second front, but also in the organisation of planned procedures and acute on-calls in hospitals, it is probably no longer necessary to convince anyone. Besides, this law, which we are looking at, is also the best example of how much we lack hands to work in the White Health Service today. We will, of course, support this bill. As I said, she should be converted in this House probably in October, November, not just today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u336	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Alexander Mishalski, the Civic Coalition. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u337	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill must, of course, be supported. On the other hand, I have a question for Members and Members of the PiS benches who are not practically there at the moment. Do you remember your former colleague, Józef Hrynkiewicz, who, when it comes to saying that young doctors would go abroad if they didn't make better money here, shouted, "Let them go?" Well, that's what they're going to do. And today, there's no one to work in the large millions of temporary hospitals opened up. There are 100 doctors and 200 nurses missing in Małopolska - just a few days ago - in the COVID wards, not including temporary hospitals at all, how they will begin to fulfill themselves. Doctors are also lacking to perform permanent procedures and surgeries. Unfortunately, six years of your health policy has totally worsened this situation and you can do five press conferences a day in hospitals, but you can't hide the problems you've caused. And the main problem is the shortage of doctors. Therefore, I would like to ask: How many medical graduates have succeeded in emigration since 2016? How many doctors are missing in Poland today so that health care can work fully? And also commenting on Senator Pęk's statement from Małopolska, who said that it was necessary to transfer doctors from oncology to COVID troops and thus devote these patients to cancer - I think this is a scandalous statement. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u338	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u339	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It's very hard to debate when government benches are empty. It is very difficult to talk about pandemic situations when important meetings are held in the EU. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the day. 10 a meeting was held between Member States' health ministers. At this meeting, which was in the form of a video conference, there was no Minister Niedzielski. According to the information we have on the Internet, there were also none of his four deputies. The question is: Where is the minister and where are his deputies? But the case that we're dealing with today is, above all, qualifying for vaccination. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to ask you a question, I wanted to ask Minister Dworczyk: What is the situation of vaccination in care and medicine facilities, in care and medicine facilities, in hospices and in palliative medicine departments? Ladies and gentlemen, there is drama. So far, [[♪ The bell ♪]] As far as care and treatment facilities are concerned, the most elderly were not vaccinated with multiple diseases. In Warsaw we have such facilities. The question is, I will demand a written reply: How many care and care facilities, hospices, palliative wards have been vaccinated so far? These are people who should have been vaccinated by now. Why don't you vaccinate the seniors? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u340	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Konrad Frysztak, the Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Please, Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u341	Marshal, a question for the rapporteur. If you're saying that this bill is so important and that it needs to be introduced as soon as possible... Mr President, a question for you. There is no longer a minister, so at least listen to me as rapporteur. I would like you to answer the question: If this is so important and important, did you not know who these other people would be at the stage of writing this law? You talk about nurses all the time right now, you talk about midwives. Didn't you consider who was supposed to be at the stage of writing this bill? Because then we could have approved it very quickly and there would have been no need for a regulation by the Minister of Health on this issue. On the other hand, you also leave a long time for this regulation to be published. I think it's gonna be a lot faster, and it's gonna be really good. But my question is, shouldn't this be in the bill? Because, however, the person who is to decide on the qualifications, the qualification for vaccination, [[♪ The bell ♪]] should be enshrined in the Act and not in the Minister's Regulation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u342	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u343	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The parliamentary draft law on printing No 1004 amending the Act on the prevention and control of infectious infections and diseases in humans concerns qualification, research. I have a question for you. Since there are many people who are chronically ill, and the indication is that they are vaccinated, I would like to know whether they will be mentioned here by the rapporteur, the nurse, midwives or other persons who will be admitted to the qualification, whether they will be supported by doctors. Ladies and gentlemen! Many people with disabilities, many chronically ill people, including psoriatic arthritis, due to their age, despite their willingness and medical indications for vaccination (the Bell), cannot be allowed. I would very much ask you to consider extending the group, the circle of people allowed to immunize and allow those who can extend their own lives so that they can be vaccinated, even though they are not 70, 80 years old... Thank you very much. ...and they're very often 20, 30 years old. Please respond in writing. As there is no one on the ministerial bench, I ask for a written reply on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u344	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Marek Rutka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u345	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are considering the extension of the circle of persons entitled to qualify for vaccination, which is appropriate and deserves support. It is worth mentioning, however, that such solutions were already presented by the Left Club during the proceedings of the Health Committee last year. However, some of the representatives of our club, including myself, advocated a much braver step, including the inclusion of pharmacists in the vaccination system. Such a solution, i.e. the possibility of vaccination in the pharmacy, of course one that has suitable local conditions for this, is practiced in 11 European countries, including among others. Switzerland, Ireland, Denmark and Portugal. This would significantly increase access to vaccination, in particular in out-of-town centres. I therefore appeal for more courage and much more forward-looking (The Bell) thinking.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u346	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u347	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! It's a shame there's no government on such an important subject. I do not know if you are listening to us, because if you are listening, I would like to remind you that from this place last year Prime Minister said: Poland is prepared to fight the coronavirus. We're not, and we weren't. Then he said the virus was in the back. The virus wasn't in the back. That we're prepared for the second wave. We weren't. That we have vaccines. We don't. That we have a national vaccination system. We don't. And so on. I want to ask you when the government will finally come to its senses and begin to take the citizens and us, the High House seriously. I would like to ask a question to the Minister who is not here. Why are you introducing such a late extension when it comes to workers eligible for vaccination? This should have been done earlier, before the creation of a national vaccination fund, first of all. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Not only are you late, you're still leaving six months. So how many people can die during this period? You're responsible for this, or actually the jury, your marshal, because there's no one here to talk to. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u348	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u349	It is a pity that there is no Minister who will issue implementing acts, because we all know, maybe outside the units, how important mass vaccinations are to us as soon as possible. That's about the topic we're debating. From the point of view of the personal interest and safety of the doctor, and especially of the nurse, it will be easy to unqualified for vaccination. In the case of a nurse, also a doctor - and here an estimate - there are very cool mandatory forms to fill out. If it's all right, it's OK, but if there's a shadow of doubt and there may be a situation that by a small, banal thing it will end up unqualified for vaccination, then this mechanism would also be very bad. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister: Is there any consultation system, even for the young man? [[♪ The bell ♪]] a doctor, especially for a nurse, so that in case of doubt they can consult someone, because even if they are allergic, even in oncological cases, even after an anaphylactic shock patient can be vaccinated if the allergist allows it? Is such a mechanism envisaged? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u350	Thank you, sir. I would like to inform you that she is watching the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Anna Goławska remotely. So she's supposed to be watching us and answering questions. Please, Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left. He was. Excuse me, Mr. Jan Szopiński. I am so sorry, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u351	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2020, on the one hand, the Covid Act, on the other hand, on the Law on the prevention and control of infectious diseases, turned out to have various strange records in these laws. One of the strangest issues was the settlement of the presidential elections. In 2021, I thought the experimenting period was over. On the other hand, in this law, which extends the circle of people, those who are entitled to vaccination, we have the situation that we are extending the law that says that it qualifies for a network of hospitals specific hospitals. And if it weren't for this bill, and if it weren't for both the Left and all the other opposition groups to agree to it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because Covid doesn't divide people, it would be a particular problem, because the Minister, instead of dealing with the rules that are already in force in the field of hospital operation, is reorganizing county hospitals. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u352	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u353	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask you two questions that we have started to discuss and which the Deputy Minister informed you about during the committee meeting, i.e. the announcement of extending the range of medical professions eligible for influenza vaccination and vaccination in pharmacies. If the Minister, who is listening to us, could at least bring us closer to the deadlines in which such legislative solutions will appear in the Sejm, I would be very grateful and grateful to all those who care very much about this subject. And the second point is also a request to the Ministry's representative, preferably to the doctor, to answer and calm all those who are listening to our debate today, and are patients and have various ailments, are ill with a syndrome of various kinds of diseases and they fear that they will be properly qualified [[♪ The bell ♪]] by representatives of other medical professions than the doctor. I know that it is safe, it is safe in many countries, but I would like such people to calm down a person from the Ministry of Health who is a doctor. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u354	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Krystian Kaminski, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u355	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday at Oslo University Hospital, a less than 50-year-old woman died working in the health care department who had a severe case of blood clot after receiving a vaccine against AstraZeneca koravirus. After that, Norway suspended AstraZeneca vaccination. The same was done by the Germans, the Italians, the French, the Spanish, who also no longer vaccinate AstraZeneca. In Poland, the government continues to urge us to vaccinate ourselves with this product, says that it is safe, that nobody is in danger, and urges, and even insists, that as many military, as many teachers as possible be vaccinated with it. I'm already getting a call from some friends of my teachers who are talking about side effects. Tell me - because we know that in a few days you will do exactly the same, so you will say that we will no longer vaccinate AstraZeneca, because there are doubts, controversies - how these people are to trust that the Polish government is doing something well, how they are to trust you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish, trust that he cares about their health. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u356	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u357	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Already in January, during a meeting with Prime Minister Morawiecki and Minister Dworczyk, President Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz and Dariusz Klimczak proposed just such solutions as you are introducing. There is a question that has been raised in this Chamber many times today, but I will express it once again, because we would expect an answer from the Minister representing the government, the health department: Why did it take two months to prepare these solutions? They ask for it, they are used in many countries. We would be very grateful for the comprehensive response. There is a natural reflection that unfortunately the Law and Justice, listening to good suggestions from the opposition, is not willing to introduce them, but must wait and then introduce them as (the bell) its. It is time, for example in the case of measures to combat the epidemic, to refrain from doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u358	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u359	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The more people are entitled to vaccination, the better for patients, the better for all of us. I have a question for the Minister. We know that COVID is, we know that it can be very long, we know that hospitals are closed, in some cases no surgery can be done. Why don't you take advantage of the easiest solution and at least the operations that are designed to save patients' lives, you're not gonna order private hospitals? This is today, ladies and gentlemen, the easiest solution. It is scandalous what Senator PiS said that in the fight against COVID you must sacrifice the patients with cancer. This is an outrage, Senator, this is your PiS-object sensitivity to man. And last question, please answer in writing. Poland has abandoned the purchase of 15 million vaccines (the bell) of Pfizer and Moderny. I want an answer in writing why it happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u360	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u361	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Dear Minister, who is supposed to be watching us! I have a question about this bill. I'll start like this: better late than never. I could have said even more dramatically: it is high time for such a bill to be adopted. But as you know, the devil is often in the details, and I would first of all like to know what the question of financing these services will look like. It's about this extended group of people who qualify for vaccination. Will midwives, nurses from various institutions get benefits? Are they going to be 100 percent? What is the issue of funding? It follows from the justification that there is no funding, and after all (the bell) it will be additional work. And second question, Marshal, let me ask you. I'd like to ask you, in particular, about the midwives that will, I understand, be transferred from the maternity wards. What's it gonna be? Who's gonna play them, so to speak, a role in the maternity wards if they're gonna qualify for vaccination? How's that supposed to be organized? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u362	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u363	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! We've had a pandemia for a year, we've known about the vaccine for months, we've already been vaccinated for a few months, we've had a third wave, and it's only now that there's a solution that's gonna relieve the doctors from being qualified for vaccination. So the first question is why is it so late? And two: What happened that, unlike other countries in Poland, so many seniors have not yet been vaccinated? As vaccinations started in virtually all European countries, we saw such a very obvious scene when almost the oldest senior they could find was vaccinated. This was shown on TV as an example of the fact that older people need to be vaccinated as soon as possible. However, it turned out that we suddenly have a group of medical professionals of 1,300 thousand. people, and we really don't have that many doctors, nurses, salons, midwives and paramedics. Therefore, the basic question is: What did you mess up at the beginning that we do not have (the bell) vaccinated at least all 85+ seniors?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u364	Thank you very much, Member. I ask you, Minister Anna Goławska, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, to respond. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u365	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members, First of all, with regard to the statements, I would like to thank you very much for supporting the bill, because this is important for us from the point of view of speeding up vaccination and the possibility of handling large consignments of vaccines to Poland. As we all know, at this moment companies, vaccine manufacturers limit deliveries and we still get information about a reduced delivery or a delay, while we are assured that in the second quarter of these vaccines will be significantly more and that we will be able to speed up the process. Therefore, we would also like to increase the potential of vaccination points by allowing people performing other medical professions to qualify for vaccination. The question of why only now should be answered, however, that the mass vaccination process takes place in the country for the first time. We didn't have vaccinations on that scale. And we didn't have a situation where we're going to vaccinate a product that's new all over the world. Therefore, in the first days, in the first weeks, we carefully considered that doctors should be eligible for vaccination, that we should observe what this process looks like. Now we know that the process of qualifying for vaccination is not very difficult. Qualifications that have nurses, midwives or midwives are sufficient to carry out such tests, including physical examination. We therefore considered that this was the moment when we could direct such a draft bill to the session of the Sejm. Why will the current law apply for six months? Well, this provision is a matter of caution. This does not mean that we will wait six months for the regulation to be introduced. The provision states that the current provisions of the Act will be binding for no longer than 6 months, but until the Regulation is implemented. Therefore, the period of 6 months will certainly not come true - it will be much shorter. You should also return... It's a question of funding. The method of financing vaccination is defined by the NFZ. The NFZ pays for vaccination regardless of whether a doctor or another medical professional is eligible for vaccination. The rate of vaccination will be the same, will not be changed. Therefore, the clearance between the establishment and the eligible or vaccination worker will belong to the medicinal product subject who will employ that medical worker. It's not like we needed two months to prepare these solutions. We needed time to analyze and see what this process looks like, how the vaccine affects people, what the effects are and how doctors observe patients. According to the Summary of Product Characteristics for all vaccines, there are no specific situations that would disqualify the use of vaccines. These may be flu symptoms, or allergies to the components of the vaccine. Therefore, the qualification interview, which is carried out by the person qualifying for vaccination, plays a major role (the bell). This interview can be conducted by both a doctor and a nurse or another medical professional who will be indicated. In the regulation, we plan to indicate the competences of those who will be eligible for vaccination. So that we will certainly ensure that these people are properly qualified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u366	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, in the procedure of correcting Mr Mikhal Szczerba.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u367	Minister! You didn't answer my questions, which were very specific. It was about vaccination issues in care and care facilities. As far as these bodies are concerned, the number of vaccinations is very low. As I said, even in the capital city of Warsaw there are institutions where seniors with multiple diseases have not been vaccinated so far. It's about 90-year-olds, 80-year-olds, 70-year-olds. I ask for precise information in writing, Minister, what percentage of seniors in these medicinal products have been vaccinated. Second thing. You are here remotely, but today there is also an informal meeting of the health ministers of the countries of the European Union. Who represented the Ministry of Health at this meeting? Online information shows that only the Polish deputy delegation to the European Union was there. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u368	Thank you very much. I would ask the rapporteur of the commission of Paul Rychlik to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u369	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I wanted to make things right. Ladies and gentlemen, you were waving your hands, fingers to government benches, while it turns out that the Minister, a representative of the Ministry of Health, was in the courtroom. It's basic. That's one thing. Secondly, I can think of an old Polish proverb: it ate so well and died. This today's work on the parliamentary bill is just like this... 66,000. It's kind of a joke. But I didn't interrupt you. That's what it looked like. This was a substantive discussion, including criticism, which is a sacred law of opposition, for example from Mrs Gelert, until questions were asked, which in 95% or 99% they did not relate to the problem and the subject matter of this law. We are amending a law that extends the catalogue of professions whose representatives will be able to qualify for vaccination and carry out vaccinations. We are not talking here, firstly, about adapting and carrying out vaccinations in pharmacies, we are not talking about the number of doctors, we have not done any trips to our predecessors, who have generally based their health policy on privatisation, on doing business. I'm sorry, but you speak as rapporteur for the committee, sir. That's what it should be about. I will remind you here, Mrs... You're the committee's rapporteur, so you're welcome to this... ...a colleague from the benches. Listen to what the marshal says. Yes, sir. You don't understand. Therefore, by referring to questions about why not in the law and in the regulation... We're experiencing an epidemic that hasn't happened in decades, centuries, since infectious diseases, flu. It's been a century now. The Spanish girl was. We are somewhat on the front, in the field of combat, and therefore the decision-makers must be able to decide what hosts at a certain stage of the fight against the koravirus simply include in the fight. That's why it's not in the bill, it's in the Minister's regulation. The law provides for this possibility, a certain flexibility, so that just at the moment when it will be necessary to include further medical professions - whether it is nurses, whether it is rescuers or Polish pharmacists - the Minister could make the right decision. As for the first question, such an attacker, I would like to say - your marshal, here I will answer the non-essential question - that during the Civic Platform the number of medical students was 6500 and during the Law and Justice period, in 2019 - 9300. The increase in doctors' salaries during this period was 40%. The number of doctors who left here every year during the Platform was about 1100. During the Law and Justice period, this number has decreased significantly, although it is not satisfactory, but is now leaving 700 and 800 a year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u370	Thank you. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Information on the relevant problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2019 (print No 857) together with the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Legislative Commission (print No 936). I would like to ask Mr Kazimierz Smolinski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u371	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Legislative Committee on information on the relevant problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2019, in print Nos 857 and 936. Ms Marshal, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above information to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Legislative Committee on 16 December of the previous year for consultation. The committees are familiar with the aforementioned. information and discussion at its meeting on 15 March 2021. During the session or joint meeting of the two committees, the problem of the presence or absence of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal arose. There have been attempts to take a stand after calling the president before the committee. Such a call could not take place because the tribunal is a constitutional body independent of the Sejm and in accordance with Article. 124 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall be informed and the information shall be served to the Members. Such information has been communicated to the Members. Unfortunately, the discussion rather went towards the absence of the President and the status of judges or the status of the President. Members questioned whether the President had been chosen properly and at the same time requested her to be called. The debate was what it was like. I'm just letting you know it happened. The High Chamber received this information on 15 December when the printing was given a number. So that's all I have to say as rapporteur. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u372	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Ast, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u373	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present a position on information on the relevant problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2019 contained in print No 857. As the rapporteur has already said, neither the President of the Constitutional Tribunal nor the representatives of the Constitutional Tribunal participated in the meeting of the Joint Committee: the Committee on Justice and the Legislative Commission. The reason for this absence or absence is the same as in the previous year, because then the President of the Constitutional Tribunal did not attend the meeting of the committee. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is the position of the President of the Tribunal and respects and shares. Indeed, the questioning of the status of judges of the Tribunal, the legitimacy of the President of the Tribunal to exercise this function, as well as the questioning of the status of the Constitutional Tribunal itself by the Members of the opposition took place at earlier meetings of the committee, but it also took place throughout the year on every occasion, such as the meeting of the Committee on Justice, the Legislative Commission on the budget of the Constitutional Tribunal. At that time, it was also an opportunity to make these critical remarks, often on the border of just insulting remarks, to report. For the image of the Constitutional Tribunal itself, also for the good name of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal and the President, this is the decision of the President. At the same time, the position and the Legislative Office, and the Sejm Analysis Office are unambiguous. There is no obligation for the President of the Tribunal to attend both the committee meeting and the meeting of the High Chamber. However, this is, of course, a seismic custom. Indeed, it is a great pity that this custom is not respected, but it is also a good sejm custom to respect the guests who attend committee meetings, and here these borders have long been exceeded in the current and past term of the Sejm. With regard to the report itself, it has been drawn up as always, the information has been drawn up in a transparent manner, with a descriptive part, quoting the most important judgments which have taken place over 2019, including the statistical part showing the number of rights recognised in the various categories and in relation to the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal. In the end, that's a reflection, ladies and gentlemen. It seems that if Members, the most radical in their opinions on the Constitutional Tribunal, who did not de facto recognize the Constitutional Tribunal, were consistent, they would simply not attend committee or Sejm meetings in cases relating to the Tribunal. It seems to be a reversal. It is simply, since you do not recognise the Constitutional Court, it is not consistent that you are taking part in the discussion about the Tribunal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u374	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u375	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! If today to ask Poles where the Constitutional Tribunal's judgments are, they would probably answer that somewhere between soup and dessert at the meeting of the president of the PiS with his social discovery. Yesterday, Mrs. Przyłębska, this social discovery, she didn't even bother to come to the Justice Commission to present information about the case law of the Court for 2019, and I am not surprised at her. It was a shame, it was just a fear of telling the truth about what was happening at the Constitutional Court. But at the same time there are shoes and arrogance, so typical for people of present power, which with the hands of the Przyłębska tribunal introduces another dangerous solution for Poles. This tribunal is trying to legalize lawlessness instead of fighting lawlessness. Like this, for example. was in March 2019 when he tried to legalise the unlawful appointment of judges to the National Court of Justice by politicians with the understudy. But that was a warm-up. It is with the hands of the Przyłębska PiS tribunal that the Poles are deprived of their rights and freedoms. And so: October 22, Ub. Mrs. Przyłębska and her crew brutally broke into the lives of Poles and Poles. At that time, this false judgment was given to force the birth of terminally ill children. Barbarianism was tried by the hands of the tribunal to transform into existing laws, and these are laws that threaten torturing and abuse women. High Izbo! It is through this pseudo-tribulation that the PiS will continue to impose solutions to society that it has absolutely no right to impose. And the line is long. The hearing has already been postponed eight times to open the door to the unlawful deprivation of Mr. Adam Bodnar's position as ombudsman. It will soon come to a conclusion which questions Poland's place in the European Union, because this is what it comes down to undermining with the hands of the Przyłębska team the recent ruling of the EU Court of Justice. Applications for blocking access to public information are also pending. In the drawers of the Court of Przyłębska there is also a request from Prime Minister Morawiecki, which will block entrepreneurs from seeking compensation for the unlawful restriction of activity in connection with the epidemic. There is also a request to be examined which will eliminate, and indeed, the liability of officials for acting against the public interest if the objective is to protect another good. Sounds enigmatic? This will avoid responsibility for all those who ordered bad masks, bad ventilators. The current power has wasted billions, millions of our taxes. High Izbo! The Court, which was to be such an antidote to non-constitutional law, at that moment itself began to poison that right. He became such a bypass for the people of the present power. Instead of taking care of the Constitution, it simply opens the door to avoiding it. At this point in time, the institution that was supposed to uphold constitutional order is simply destroying this order. The so-called Constitutional Tribunal, pseudo-judgments, double judges, Przyłębska tribunal, social discovery of the President - these are the words of the keys to describing the institution that was once called to examine the compatibility of the law with the Constitution. High Izbo! At the end of the day, it's a reflection. Some time ago, during a discussion with lawyers, someone said this sentence: We no longer have a Constitutional Tribunal today. Today we have an arresting tribunal, because it brings this power to every sentence that only this authority dreams of. Those are maybe shocking words, depressing for sure. But those simple words are what we have seen for years. They give such true information on the state of the case law at the Constitutional Court. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u376	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u377	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! According to Art. The President of the Tribunal shall submit annually to the Sejm the relevant problems arising from the activities and case law of the Tribunal. This is a provision understood by the current President-in-Office as a publication on the website, because there we were able to read this information as Members, because only there, like the year before, was this information posted. Judge Przyłębska did not appear at the session of the Parliamentary Committee to submit this information, as did all its predecessors, to answer questions, as did all the Presidents of the Tribunal before her. And here I have to agree with the rapporteur, the debate was what it was, as was the report on the committee's work and the position of the club. A bad change does not save the non-constitutional tribunal, not only the legislative authority, which we can observe here, but unfortunately also the judicial one, which is at the highest level. The President of Przyłębska considers that he is not obliged to appear before the Chamber because he is guided by the need to protect the tribunal from violating the fundamentals of the state of public law undermining its constitutional position. It was a quote. Is it really necessary to protect the tribunal from Members and Members of the opposition? It is one of those questions that will remain unanswered, questions about the fundamental tasks of the tribunal, i.e. judicial review of the constitutionality of the law. We couldn't ask them. There is an analysis published in January 2021 on the website, I apologise for the information submitted to the Sejm for 2019. And now a few numbers: 2015 - 173, 2016 - 99, 2017 - 88, 2018 - 72, 2019 - 70. Do you know what this is? That's the number of court rulings. Dramatic inheritance. Such a low number of judgments have not been issued in more than 20 years. There's an increase in expenses. Is that why in the 2019 statistics the authors gave up their previous practice of comparing results with previous years? In August 2019 Judge Przyłębska calmed the viewers of the regime television, saying that despite all the spells appearing in the media, the tribunal was acting completely normal. Well, the normality of the action of the Court under the leadership of Przyłębska does not appear in the number of judgments issued, but the third year of the President of the Judge of Przyłębska is the final confirmation of the politicisation of the tribunal. In November, PiS politicians Stanisław Piotrowicz and Krystyna Pawłowicz became judges. A politicized tribunal acts in accordance with the will of the government and confirms the PiS version as needed or helps minimize image losses. It was used to legitimize the deformity of the judiciary. In March 2019 the tribunal legalized the neo-KRS. The application was submitted by members of the neo-KRS themselves. It was the Przyłębska tribunal that legalized itself, legalizing the choice of double judges for seats already filled. He also swooped in on the public assembly bill. For their purposes, the Tribunal shall use the ministers of this government, as well as the minister of injustice of Ziobro. The general rule is that if you're worried, it's to Przylebska. An example? Kaczyński's party politicians called on the judge to help in even a loud letter of support to the neo-KRS. It is also the tribunal that cleans up Ziobra, as in the case of full errors and inaccuracies of the draft amendment of the Criminal Code of June 2019, written on the knee, with the knee pushed by the Sejm expressly, it is known, in violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and the Constitution. It was similar with the amendment of the law on IPN by Ziobra, which caused an international scandal and crisis in Poland's relations with Israel, the USA and Ukraine. Recognizing non-constitutionality, stretching out in time saves the government and its minister's blasphemy. And all this is just 2019. All of this consists of the tragic reality of the non-constitutional state of PiS, whose governments created a post-constitutional institution and a systemic tragedy in which the actors of the doubles play judges, and the real citizens and citizens are forced to participate in a performance directed from Nowogrodzka. They are actually deprived of the constitutional guarantee of impartial consideration of their cases. Painful [[♪ The bell ♪]] We have experienced this in the case of a verdict on women who have been given for another political order by a puppet tribunal. But it's 2020 now. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u378	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u379	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It must be said that today the Constitutional Tribunal is out-of-law, ineffective, engaged in the political support of the PiS authorities, is based on the social arrangements of the PiS politicians and is as independent as Mr Obejtek is modest. Why is the tribunal outlawed? The Court is outlawed because it is constantly and consistently held by the judges of the doubles. The right side of the room is very violent when we say so, but these are people illegally appointed in place of other legally elected judges. In the composition of the tribunal, persons are not allowed to rule on procedural defects in the course of their selection. It is similar with the status of the mgr Przylebska. It has been nominated as the alleged President through numerous procedural mats, so its decisions, e.g. those concerning the selection of compositions dealing with individual cases in today's Court can be regarded as defective. What makes you think the Court is inefficient? The published work statistics for 2019 are, High Izbo, merciless. Such a low number of judgments have not been in the Court for 20 years. Interestingly, in the 2019 statistics, the authors gave up their previous practice of comparing results with previous years. There are no graphs showing how she changed. the number of cases involved or decisions given. Only data for 2019 were shown. Was the President of Przyłębska ashamed of the court's passiveness and that he was on holiday in 2019? The case-law fracture occurred after 2015 when the United Right began to demolish both the personnel and the system. In 2015, the Constitutional Tribunal issued 173 judgments, in 2016. - It's only 99 now. Following the reform of the PiS, the downward trend continued: in 2017 the judgments were 89, in 2018 72, and in which we are debating only 70. Moreover, the semi-exploited Constitutional Tribunal in a time of pandemic and crisis is generously rewarding its employees' bonuses. In 2019 and 2020 it was more than PLN 0.5 million with employment of just over 100 people. Nor is it a secret that the President's personal protection costs the most of the notes protected by the State Security Service. Finally, a weekly 1,200 km from Warsaw to Berlin and back with a government limousine in support of security guards must cost. By combining these costs with the reduced activity of the tribunal, it can be said that citizens receive less from the tribunal and pay more for its maintenance. What makes you think the tribunal is serving the political power of the PiS? It could be said that the Constitutional Tribunal meets the expectations of the PiS authority, but it would be more appropriate to state that the Constitutional Tribunal is today simply one of the authorities of the PiS. Examples of political dictation can be multiplied. It rained here today. March 2019, the tribunal served the government by legalising the new National Judicial Council. Following the conclusions of President Duda and Members of the Polish Constitutional Tribunal, the Constitutional Tribunal has stuck to the cyclical assembly law and has itself legalised the choice of double judges for seats in the Constitutional Court. The Court has already used the Minister of Justice Zbigniew Ziobro several times for its purposes, e.g. in August 2018, when he asked the tribunal about compliance with the Polish Constitution of Art. 267 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This concerns the submission of preliminary questions to the Court of Justice of the European Union by the courts of the Member States. What makes you think that a person under the influence of social arrangements with PiS politicians is running the tribunal today? I will no longer return to the quote from President Kaczyński on public television, but the President of the Court regularly meets the most important politicians in the apartment. Julia Przyłębska is visited by Jarosław Kaczyński, Prime Minister of Morawiecki. The President of Przyłębska meets several times a week in a private apartment. Some even maliciously say that the president's apartment was named the new PiS command center. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Last sentence, Marshal. Is this the case for a tribunal and a threefold division of power in Poland? The only three divisions that can be found here are when the president divides three portions of dinner, where he accepts the Prime Minister and the President of PiS. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u380	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Robert Winnicki, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u381	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When I listen to the left-hand side of the hearing room on the Constitutional Court case, I feel like he was chasing the kettle down to the pot. We have a huge galimatias in the judiciary, we have a huge galimatias with the Constitutional Tribunal, but let's remind you who started it in 2015, who, as not the previous ruling team, together with Prof. Rzepliński, citing the possibility to fill as many judges of the Constitutional Tribunal as possible. He was chasing the pot to the kettle. PiS has consistently gone the way you started with the tribunal, that is the truth. And don't say that in your day there was no appointment of our judges, your judges, etc., because that's exactly what happened. You may be surprised by the momentum of PiS-owski, the fact that they did it so hard, so profoundly and as much as you might want to, but you didn't quite do it, you were inept at it, but don't say you didn't want to do the same, because that's exactly what you did. That's the first thing. The second thing - the report is in 2019 and, of course, it is very bad that there are no representatives of the Constitutional Tribunal in the Sejm. What is this? What is this total lack of civil courage? We cannot invoke the highest functions, as a state, we as a Polish state, we as those who constitute a Polish state, the highest offices, people who do not have the courage to come to the Parliament of the Republic and confront what is happening here, even if it is often not too elegant. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a beauty pageant, this is a hard job for the Republic of Poland. I have a very critical opinion on this cowardice of the representatives of the Constitutional Tribunal who will not come here, will not talk, will not explain and will not, of course, answer the substantive accusations brought against the Constitutional Tribunal. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also worth noting that we are discussing case law in 2019, but examples of last year's judgments have already appeared in this discussion, including the most famous decision of the Court on the constitutional protection of life. Again, I must remind the left side of the room that Prof. Rzepliński or Prof. Zoll, or anyone else at the head of the tribunal, could not make any other decision in accordance with the Constitution in force. That's not true. A Constitution that was adopted and promoted by the Freedom Union environments, which will continue in the Civic Platform, and the SLD environment, which will continue today in this Parliament. This constitution is your work, and this decision of the tribunal is the implementation of this fundamental constitutional right, the right to life, that is the truth. You would have some civil courage and decency to admit it, to admit that the constitutional value was upheld in this decision of the Constitutional Court. Ladies and gentlemen! This galimatias in which we are, these doubts about the mode, the composition of the tribunal, which began in 2015 before the parliamentary elections, and not after the parliamentary elections, remind us, concerning the laws of the court and the constitution in general, of the Polish judiciary, tell us one thing - the need for great responsibility of the entire Polish political class and the need for what we talked about last year during the presidential campaign in the brochure New Order. 27 also constitutional. I encourage you to read our proposals because this situation requires a constitutional reset. This situation, in order to cut it, requires a constitutional resett, because even if, God forbid, you came to power as a Platform, a Left, anyone, and now they want to reverse what the PiS did in the judiciary, how do you imagine undermining the appointments of judges and all these hundreds of thousands of sentences that fall on behalf of the Republic of Poland every year in the Polish courts handed down by these new judges? It's impossible, because it's aberration, and you know it. All these matters can only be sorted out by a constitutional reset. The Confederate Constitutional Reset has proposed and proposes (The Bell) and calls on the entire political class to be responsible in this respect. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u382	Thank you very much. And please, Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u383	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I will present the position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 in the case discussed here. It is clear that the Constitutional Tribunal in its current composition is in conflict with the Constitution. All decisions of the Tribunal, as well as resolutions of the general assembly of that institution, taken with the involvement of the judges who have been wrongly elected, should also be considered defective. They will have to undergo a very detailed review in the future. In view of the above, it must be stated with all power that the Republic of Poland is de facto deprived of one of the key organs of the state, which should be an independent and apolitical constitutional court. Numerous judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal fully in line with the expectations of the governing camp, such as, among others, are evidence of this. a ruling extending the President's powers of pardon, legitimizing the puriazum in the form of the so-called. cyclical gatherings, which consider it a constitutional way for Members to choose the judges of the National Courts of Justice or a dispute settlement between the Sejm and the President and the Supreme Court concerning the interpretation of the law on the election of the members of the National Courts, which indirectly constituted the termination of obedience to the TSEU. Of course, an extreme example of the greatest social emotion was the abortion sentence of last year. All these judgments lower the standard of protection of human rights and citizens in Poland and are disgraceful to this institution, which once played a key role in the implementation of democratic principles of the rule of law in Poland. Unfortunately, this is also reflected in the Court's opinion. While it has traditionally been supported by more than half of the population with a very small group of people expressing distrust, these proportions have now reversed. Last November, the tribunal trusted 20% of Poles and Poles, not 59%. It can be said with a snack that Julia Przyłębska's tribunal has done the impossible and in the ranking of mistrust has surpassed Jarosław Kaczyński and Jacek Sasin. Evidence of a dramatic decline in trust in the institutions of the tribunal is also a huge decline in the number of cases that we have already mentioned here, which affect it. According to the information provided, only 240 cases were received in 2019. By comparison, in 2015 it was almost three times more, because 623. Nevertheless, the waiting time for a ruling at the Constitutional Court is scandalously long, even four years. This simply proves the mismanagement of this institution by Mrs Julia Przyłębska. It should also be regarded as an outrageous custom of manual control of the time limits set by the Court of Justice for examining cases. Cases which are quickly considered in the interests of the governing camp shall be referred to immediate examination. For inadmissible and in breach of Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal must be recognised as refusing to attend the meeting of the Joint Parliamentary Committees and of the Sejm examining the report by Julia Przyłębska. It is a certificate of boots and arrogance, disregard for the chief control authority of the State, which is the Sejm. The judge has no right to instruct Members about the way in which they exercise their constitutional powers to control the activities of other constitutional bodies of the State. Fortunately, in the defence of civil rights and freedoms in Poland there are increasingly independent universal courts, Supreme Court and administrative courts. They increasingly apply the constitution directly and refuse to obey scandalous non-constitutional laws adopted in the Sejm by the ruling majority. Examples of this type of activity were, among others. judgments of regional courts granting the right to citizens and citizens who do not accept criminal mandates for the lack of a mask when such an order was not introduced by law, to attend meetings during the epidemic and the health and safety penalty, or to protect the independence of local self-government units. Ordinary, private Polish judges upholding the Constitution and fulfilling the content of their oath should be given the highest respect here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] To sum up, the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050 clearly condemns the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal under the leadership of Julia Przyłębska. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u384	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to subscribe to the question? If not, I'm closing the list. Please, Mrs Wanda Nowicka, the Left Club. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u385	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! I don't have a question for Mrs. Julia Przyłębska not only because she's not here, but I think I know the answer to the question why she's not here. She's scared, she's scared of us, and she has reason to be scared because of all the bad things she's doing at the Constitutional Court. Julia Przyłębska knows that the scandalous abortion sentence at least twice broke the constitution, condemning women to torture and trampling on their dignity. The natural and inalienable dignity of man, and therefore of women, guaranteed in the article. 30 constitutions were trampled on by this sentence. Human dignity is a source of freedom and human rights and citizens' rights, and it is inviolable. Meanwhile, Przyłębska, enslaving women, deprived them of their ability to decide about their lives, took that dignity away from them. There's no dignity without freedom. The Venus has broken the article. 40 constitutions, a ban on torture, inhuman and degrading treatment, because no one can deny that forcing women to bear children to die after birth is torture. Finish it, Member. Time's up. Therefore, I am not surprised, although to tell you the truth, it is a terrible practice that Mrs Przyłębska does not come to the Sejm and does not want to hear our comments. Thank you. [[Applause]] Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u386	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u387	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Miss Julio Przyłębska absent! Today, we are talking about an institution whose sole task is to legitimise human rights violations and the service of power, an institution working for all citizens, belonging to the PiS. Today, the building of the Constitutional Tribunal is hosted by double judges and politicians known for their personal culture. I understand that the courts are for you, on the one hand, the whip on the insubordinate citizens and judges, on the other hand, the jobs for the Rabbit's relatives and friends. But you don't have enough? Why was the hearing of the Ombudsman postponed for the seventh time? I understand you want to install your politics in this position, but what are you waiting for? Go ahead, finish turning the state into a circus. But for Poles and Poles this joke is no longer funny. Stop treating the Constitutional Court, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Courts and ombudsman like other Orlen stations. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u388	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u389	Monsieur Marshal! High Izbo! The Constitutional Tribunal, in its present form and formula with the current President, has lost all the advantages that this institution should have. Today we are discussing a report on the work of the Court without the representative of the Constitutional Tribunal, without the President of Przyłębska. Why? Is it because he's scared? Is it because he's ashamed? Is it because he doesn't have the guts? Is it because there's nothing to boast about? I would like to ask you today, Madam President, why has the judgment on disclosure of public property statements in the most important functions of the state not been published since 2019? I am thinking about the Prime Minister here, but also about other ministers, and now Mr. Obajtko. Today the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal are neither respected nor respected, and the present tribunal [[♪ The bell ♪]] it's a shame for Poland and Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u390	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Marek Rutka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u391	Mrs. Marshal! Mrs. Master! High Izbo! 8624 EUR, or close to 40,000 EUR. PLN per month costs rent of a magnificent residence in the Dahlem district in Berlin. Ms Julia Przyłębska, who is the President of this institution on the website of the Constitutional Tribunal, benefits from this residence. I have a question: Who pays the travel expenses between Warsaw and Berlin? It is difficult to recognise that these are business trips, since, I believe, Julia Przyłębska has a report in Poland and not in the Federal Republic of Germany. Of course, travel is considered to be social... Travel is an education. ... The question, however, is whether such a translation does not insult the authority. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u392	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Bakerska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u393	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I must say that it is rare not to say: very rarely, I agree with President Ast, but this time I agree with him. I will even quote what he said in today's debate: it was a good custom for the presidents to attend the committee meeting and at the Sejm meeting, it is a pity that this custom is not respected. Yes, I agree, because yesterday's session of the Justice Committee, on which we considered, I will remind you of the important problems arising from the activities and case-law of the Constitutional Tribunal, was actually like a child's deaf phone game. We wanted to ask a number of questions, but no one could answer these questions. See these empty benches, we still have no one to ask them, and there really would be something to ask. For example, in 2017, the General Assembly of Judges adopted a Code of Ethics. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Good. Since this code of ethics - I advise you to read - is really very interesting, it would be good to ask the question: Does not the judge see anything inappropriate in fraternising, fraternizing with power? I hope the president is listening to us, and I strongly urge you to come to the committee next year and we can really talk about this... Thank you very much. I'm almost done. ...how the Constitutional Court works. Madam President! Don't be afraid of us. We'll ask you a substantive question. We really don't bite. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u394	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u395	Let's talk about money. (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, Question: "How much does the President of the Constitutional Tribunal cost Polish taxpayers a year?" Too much. How much does one judgment cost the taxpayers? How much does he charge on average, let's say, Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz for being involved in one case? How many of these cases were statistically one judge? How much did these costs increase compared to 2015, when these cases were 2.5 times higher? These are interesting questions, because this shows how you act as part of a good change. And maybe you can answer the question: Has Mrs. Julia Przyłębska started any doctoral studies? Because, you know, the Master's degree sounds good, but not as the title of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal. Stupid was a master's degree and it didn't bother you?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u396	Thank you very much. You're welcome... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u397	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As a lawyer, I am simply saddened by the fact that over the past six years the constitutional authority of the state, the judicial authority, the Constitutional Tribunal, has been so depreciated. And as a parliamentarian, I'm concerned about that. All those who today defend the Constitutional Tribunal, this quasi-organism, which is essentially to be fully subordinate to the government and implement its policies, must consider whether such a state will continue indefinitely. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Would you mind if I didn't disturb you? And answer this question in your conscience, Madame, in your conscience. This is why, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the Court on 2019, given the absence of representatives of the Constitutional Tribunal and their fear of this debate, shows that this is not a good tribunal. A judge who's afraid is not a good judge. (Applause)
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u398	Thank you, sir. And please, Mr Krzysztof Smishek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u399	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are looking at information about the activities and case law of the Court in 2019. The title of this printing is a joke, because, after all, neither the activity nor the case law nor the tribunal have. So what are we supposed to talk about today? We don't have a tribunal today. Today we have a building filled with political denominations, today we have an institution devoid of content, and today we have a trap which puts a stamp on every wrongness of PiS power that will affect this tribunal. You're gonna have to weigh your words. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll read some names. They were once the faces of the tribunal, it was once the glory of our country: Stępień, Łętowska, Wyrzykowski, Safjan. What do we got today? Pavłowicz, Piotrowicz, Muszyński, Przyłębska. Stars. Internet stars. Whether it's a tribunal, or it's just a chandelier of PiS power. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u400	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u401	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! I don't know if you remember how they used to print the results of the games. There was this man, his name was Frysler. At the moment, I have the impression that, on an equal basis, the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal are being printed on the order of the President, and that this is a sentence on women, which is to decide whether we are in force or not. Ladies and gentlemen, just a strange coincidence in the time of Obejtek, in times where we still do not know what Mr Morawiecki's wife, TK, the Constitutional Tribunal has. Julia Przyłębska does not want to address the issue of transparency of the wealth of political families. Is that a coincidence? Oh, no. If you do and print custom sentences, you print only those sentences that are convenient. The bill is, my fellow Member. I'm not surprised Mrs. Przylebska didn't show up. I'd be ashamed to print TK's sentences, too. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u402	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Michał Grammar, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u403	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Master, wherever you are! One of the entrepreneurs from my district shared with me his experience in bringing constitutional complaints to the Przyłębska tribunal. 47 of these complaints have been accepted in the last 5 years, the Court has taken them into consideration, and only one has been resolved at that time. A dozen more waiting for reconnaissance. The rate of case recognition is on average 8 years - this is how the entrepreneur calculated it. Under the pretext of formal review, the Court refuses to recognise 90% such cases, it uses a formal control mechanism to carry out substantive review of cases, i.e. it infringes the law. Even after accepting a complaint to be heard, the tribunal does nothing with her for a period of between 8 months and 2 years. On the agenda, any use shall be made in the recognition of such complaints in the various areas of procedural law without a more explicit statutory delegation. Ladies and gentlemen! One judge of the district court [[♪ The bell ♪]] is capable of carrying out 400 cases within a year, giving 400 sentences with full evidence. What about the grandstand? In 20, 30 constitutional complaints were identified two, maybe three. This is what your Constitutional Tribunal looks like today, and this is what the facade of the institution used to be a constitutional institution of the Polish state looks like. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u404	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u405	Mr Kaczyński, President of the Committee. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Instead of all this apparent information, you could only write one sentence: After a severe illness, the Constitutional Tribunal ceased to exist, as reported by sad people. Is there a doctor in the O.R.? The number of cases brought before the Constitutional Tribunal in 2018 shows this. There were only 235 of them, i.e. 50 less than in 2017 and as much as 388 less than in 2015. There is no more objective judgment, because there are no more judges there. There are only politicians, and they're all from one party. You don't have a constitutional majority, so you murdered an independent institution so that it would be a tool for you to circumvent and break the constitution. I repeat, the patient has already died. And quieter over that coffin. Applause
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u406	Thank you very much. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u407	Mr. Marshal! Mrs. Master! High Izbo! The symbols of your taking charge of the tribunal are two issues. The first is the failure to comply with his judgments, which led to the failure to take a vow from constitutionally elected judges, the illegal seat of the tribunal, the failure to publish his judgments and finally the full political control of the tribunal. The second is the ruling, which has probably drawn the most, at least since I remember, people on the street, the decision on abortion, of course given at Kaczyński's political order. So why don't you explain directly to the Poles what this whole coup was supposed to do. Did you manage to increase your trust in the tribunal? No. Did you manage to speed things up? No. Or is there some greater respect for the decisions of the tribunal? No. So maybe you have some legal achievements, some authority built in the environment, in the international arena? No. Please tell the Poles what your reform has done, [[♪ The bell ♪]] In fact, the revolution of the tribunal and do you have any idea how to get out of this impasse and this pathological situation that we must be ashamed of all over the world. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u408	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Michael Szczerba, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u409	Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! And in particular, Mr. Marshal! This picture of empty benches, where the first President of the Constitutional Tribunal should sit, is worth more than a thousand words. Julia Przyłębska shall be deemed to be the President of the Constitutional Tribunal. Then why isn't she with us? There's one thing that connects Daniel Obajtek to Julia Przyłębska. Both have the title of Man of Liberty weekly Network. Przylebska - 2017, Obajtek - 2020 History will judge them the same way. But what is the most important task of Julia Przyłębska at the moment? Protect the law on the transparency of the wealth of political families. Mateusz Morawiecki purchased 15 ha in Wrocław for 700,000. He signed it up for his wife. I don't want to show it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Łukasz Szumowski received multimillion-dollar grants, the beneficiaries of which are his wife and his brother. He doesn't want to show it. The primary task of Julia Przyłębska is to protect information that should be public. It was us, the Sejm, who decided that the assets of the political families were public. The President sent this bill to the tribunal in October. And Julia Przyłębska keeps it in her locker. [[Applause]] What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u410	Thank you very much. Mrs Monika Rosa, Parliamentary Club, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u411	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Information about the significant problems arising from the Court's activities and case law - sounds crazy, sounds dramatic and sounds ridiculous. After all, the biggest problem of the tribunal is that in Poland the tribunal simply no longer exists. There is Julia Przyłębska, a colleague of Jarosław Kaczyński, subjected to his will, his decisions, protecting information about the wealth of the families of politicians of Law and Justice. There are Stanisław Piotrowicz and Krystyna Pawłowicz, the brightest figures of Law and Justice, recent colleagues from the party benches who moved politics from the Sejm to the building of the Constitutional Court, and a little shame that they are called judges of the tribunal. And so politicians are to decide our lives, our health, our constitutionality. And so Julia Przyłębska, at the request of Jarosław Kaczyński, tells women that they have no right to decide about themselves, about their health and their lives. That's what Mr. Zoll said. There's one thing I wish for. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Here everyone talks about how little work, how little decisions, how much spending. Let there be no more judgments. Let Julia Przyłębska sit in Berlin and never again take decisions. [[Applause]] Buy yourself a dress suitable for this room.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u412	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u413	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. An example of last year's abortion ruling showed that Julia Przyłębska brings not only pancakes but also court judgments on such a case to President Kaczyński. Today, but yesterday at the Justice and Human Rights Committee meeting with the Legislative Commission, we wanted to give you a chance to explain what is causing this. I would like to ask questions today in this round of questions, Mr. Marshal, through the law firm, to ask the President on behalf of the High Chamber, which was the reason for the absence of the Justice Committee yesterday and the reason for the President's absence at today's session of the Sejm, during today's debate, [[♪ The bell ♪]] because it is a very ugly broken habit of being here for many years and explaining not only the glorious things. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u414	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Dariusz Ionski, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. Here comes the avant-garde.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u415	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! That's, among other things. there is a debate, there was to be a debate on information on the activities of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2019. But who are we debating here? Empty chairs. Mrs Przyłębska does not come to the committee meeting, Mrs Przyłębska does not come to the plenary session, just as Mr Obejtek also said that she would not come to the committee meeting, because what would be her... Neither will come to the call of Parliament. What's it called? This is the extraordinary caste Jarosław Kaczyński was talking about. New elite by y. This is the extraordinary caste he was talking about. These are people who don't have to come to Parliament. This is the IV RP, the elite that Jarosław Kaczyński was building. He forgot to add that this elite he's building will be an elite consisting of, among others. Of scandalists. That's what it looks like. And the worst part is that Mrs. Przyłębska will not come here at the call of Parliament, but Mr. Tuley will be brought here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] By force, even though he's protected by immunity and won the case in court. This is what the 4th Polish Jarosław Kaczyński looks like. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u416	Thank you. Please, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u417	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Since the representatives of the Tribunal cannot be asked questions, led by the President, perhaps by the presence of the Minister of Health, I would like to ask you about the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal on the costs, the compensation of losses by local authorities in relation to the debt of hospitals. We have an appropriate ruling from a tribunal whose execution runs and ticks. I would like to ask you: When will the government come to the ruling of the tribunal on a case that I have already mentioned? Second thing. This is for the President of Mr Ast. I would like to ask: How many court rulings are there today that are not executed by the government? E.g. Decision of the Constitutional Tribunal of 2014 on care benefits for carers of adults with disabilities. It's today that pushes those people in. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to the law firm, they pay three-, four times this benefit for making an appeal in the SKO. This results in such action by abandoning the government on the execution of decisions of the tribunal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u418	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Nowacka, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome, ma'am.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u419	Good morning. Thank you, Marshal. This isn't a tribunal. The true President of the Tribunal would have the courage to stand before the High House and explain her actions and her passiveness, she would have the courage to say why many important matters awaited her so-called. the decision is not taken. What about the RPO case? What about the property statements of politicians, still hidden? And what happened that politicians and people involved made a decision, a sentence on women? She didn't have the guts back then either. She didn't have the courage to be here or go out and talk to the protesters. She didn't have the courage to face the hell of the women she gave. This isn't a tribunal, this wasn't a judgment. Such action will lead to such a tribunal never again. There will be no ruling by politicians, by party activists, because it only brings harm. And the PiS state is morally responsible for the harm that Mrs. Przyłębska is doing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u420	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Dobromir Sosnier from the Confederate circle. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u421	As I listen to this debate... She's really sad and pathetic. On the one hand, it's an empty chair that only gives the opposition an allowance to question the legality of this tribunal even more... I think it's the right thing to do. If the president of the tribunal says he's not coming here because the opposition is gonna criticize her, then... But she didn't get an invitation from the opposition, she got it from the Sejm. [[Joy in the Chamber]] What is this? On the other hand, as I listen to you complain about illegal conduct... Let me remind you: how it was necessary to publish the judgment of the Court of 22 October, which you did not like, you all called not to publish. Don't say such things. Don't tell me. You're all ruining this country. Yeah, you've been walking around telling me not to publish that sentence. Of course I do. You're ruining this country and both. You're on the run, you've made decisions like this that are going to delegate these bodies for years, and you're the result. [[♪ The bell ♪]] procedural errors you're going to delegate to the whole body. You're saying there's no Constitutional Court. How are you gonna undo this? Don't worry about it. Let me remind you that the Communists have already adopted... illegally and all the laws that they have adopted should also be challenged. What are you doing with this country?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u422	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Sławomir Nitras, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u423	Thank you, Marshal. Today we are discussing the annual report of the Constitutional Tribunal. I remember the debates from the previous years, I remember this room, I remember President Gersdorf, who came here, and I remember you, Members of the PiS. You cried at her, insulted her, exposed your worst representatives: Mr.Piotrowicz, Mrs.Pawłowicz. There was a woman standing here who represented the highest Polish tribunal, and you cried at it. Nobody insulted me. You insulted her every step of the way. But you know what? She had a feeling she was coming here not for you. It comes here because it represents the supreme judicial authority before the supreme legislative and control authority of the Sejm. She came here and did her constitutional duty. And why are you talking about the Supreme Court, as we speak about the Court? And now there's a change that you dare call a change for the better. What's it like? The fact is that there are a handful of you left here meaningless, because no one (the bell) from the Members of the PiS, who has a little meaning, does not even come to this room. It's the only tails left. He doesn't have the President of the Constitutional Tribunal because he doesn't care about the Sejm because he doesn't care about the state because he doesn't care about his duties. What you did to the Sejm. The paradox is that when the Platform was ruled by democratic parties, every year the President of the Constitutional Tribunal came here, gave a report and had to listen to even non-cultural people like Mrs Pawłowicz. Time. And as PiS rules, the head of the Constitutional Tribunal, the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, is sitting in Berlin during the debate on its report. Is this the kind of Poland you wanted? Is that the kind of democracy you're talking about? Everything you do is a facade. The facade is this Seym, the facade is your presence here, the facade is your President of the Constitutional Tribunal. You're sitting down. Do you know why you PiS Members have nothing to say in Poland? Because the Member... because he has nothing to say. Because you did it yourself. Lie! Shame, shame, shame!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u424	Thank you very much. I invite the rapporteur of the committee of Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. His ways didn't go well, he took care of the Constitutional Tribunal. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u425	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, what happened at the committee meeting was repeated twice in the sitting room. None of your fellow Members referred to the information... No one has provided any information. ... about the significant problems arising from the Court's case law in 2019. No one. One of the Members, sorry, said that there were fewer cases in 2019. That means there's less violations of the law, since fewer cases are affecting, [[Joy in the Chamber]] And you're saying that if there are fewer cases, the tribunal is less efficient. [[Applause]] Your speeches, I regret to say, as... But that's too much. Quiet! ...the rapporteur, unfortunately, is not fit as a report or an evaluation. That's what committees are for. Mr. Marshal, please reprimand the Member. These are political speeches, and just like the committee meeting... You're assessing the Court's report. But you didn't want the report. ...as at the committee meeting, you didn't refer to the report at all... I didn't bother you. Mr. Marshal... Calm down. What kind of behavior is that? Don't wave that finger. Change the dealer. Ladies and gentlemen... Ladies and gentlemen, if we can hear the rapporteur, please. I would like to remind you that the tribunal is a constitutional body and, in accordance with the Court Act, the President of the Court is not obliged to appear before the High Sejm. Have you ever heard of anything like a good custom? Vice was corrupted by the state, by your behavior. [[Applause]] I must say, at the committee meeting, I was ashamed of the way you behaved. Let me remind you that only with regard to the ombudsman's article. 13 makes it possible for him to submit a report. Then it is written that he is presenting a report. It is similar with the Supreme Audit Chamber. The President of the Supreme Audit Chamber shall also present a report. On the other hand, as regards the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, the President shall submit a report. There is another article - art. 124 on the fact that this report is being delivered to Members. Everything was done according to the letter of the law. And what is the debate? If you wish to ask questions about the report and information, you will undoubtedly be present to the Chamber. We wanted to... I'm just asking her... But don't question the essence of the tribunal, the legality of the judges. I do not know, most of you were not Members in 2015. Most of them were. We were even like Pavlovicz ate salad. I remember when they were elected judges in reserve. And the tribunal ruled that it was against the law at the time. [[Applause]] That's what you did. It was a violation of the law. And then to replace those spares, they were chosen the right ones. It is a pity, Mr. Marshal, that the High House does not want to focus on the information presented by you to the President of the Tribunal. This information is about the problems arising from case law and activity, many petitions, organized conferences. What is the reward - someone asked - the judges of the tribunal? Take a look at the bill. Five national averages, that's easy. And you must ask here. Take a look at the bill and don't ask about it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Do you have a son in the NFZ? No, I don't.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u426	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr... It's embarrassing, your behavior. That's embarrassing. I have a request for this side of the room and this side of the room. Let's just calm down. Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is closed. According to Art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Act on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal on information shall not be put to a vote. I note that the Sejm took note of the information presented by the President of the Constitutional Tribunal on the significant problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2019. I'll take advantage of the Vice-Marshal of the Sejm. I wanted to say this to you: we are trying, Mr Nitras, in the Polish Parliament to create good standards, we are trying to create rules, we are trying to build foundations for parliamentary culture. I want to be clear: it is a bad example of the absence of the head of the Constitutional Tribunal [[Applause]] at the time when the report is adopted. Bravo! We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the current situation in the health care service and the possibility of providing health services planned in advance. I ask the Minister of Health, Mr Adam Niedzielski, to present the information. You're welcome, Minister. Shouldn't there be an applicant first? This is not current information.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u427	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased to present on behalf of Prime Minister Morawiecki information on the current situation in health care and the possibility of providing health services planned in advance. Of course, the background from which I will have to start is the pandemic situation, what is happening with the development of the so-called. The third wave, because it is at the moment the basic, fundamental context of the situation in the Polish health care system. Ladies and gentlemen! After stopping the pandemic in December, when the second wave lost momentum, we were dealing with a reduction in disease. December was the month when the disease was twice as low as in November when we had the apogee or the culmination of the second wave. In the next two months, in January and February, we observed further declines. In January there was also information and the first confirmed case of the British mutation of Coronavirus in Poland. In fact, it was a preview of what we're dealing with in March. The main cause of the third wave of pandemic is certainly the British mutation, which is more contagious. Its share of the virus population is also definitely increasing. How many planes have arrived? Don't lower your levels. The questions will be... Ladies and gentlemen, you just clapped like I said about good rules. Could you finish your statement, Minister? Then there are speeches on behalf of the clubs. Therefore, please... Please, Minister. There was a relapse in March. We have this situation that in the first half of March we have virtually more diseases than in the whole February, so you can see that the dynamics of this process are increasing. This is one of the most disturbing phenomena. This is the dynamic and I wanted to give her a few words. After a calming situation in January-February, we observed an increase in the average weekly dynamics to a level of 33,35% at the end of February, and then this dynamics started to decrease slightly, hoping that this process would gradually disappear. Unfortunately, for two days we have had a very negative signal in the form of an increase in disease dynamics between the next weeks. If we look at the last two days, this Sunday dynamic has reached or exceeded 75% And today's data, which, of course, relates to yesterday's day, shows that this dynamic is 44%. So we have, despite the high level, despite the previously observed trend of reducing this rate of disease growth, reversing trends and accelerating dynamics. What does that mean? This means, of course, that the threat associated with the third wave of the virus epidemic is a real threat, a threat that accelerates, that these next days and even the coming weeks will be very difficult for the Polish health system. We will have a difficult month, a month during which the Polish healthcare system will test its performance again, will test again how many patients can accept, how many patients can serve, both in normal hospitalization and in the procedure of these severe hospitalizations associated with a ventilator. The situation in the country is also very diverse at regional level. There are currently regions in Poland that have very high rates of infection per 100,000. residents. These most affected regions are Warmia and Mazury, which are of course Mazowieckie (Dzwonek), Lubuskie and Pomorskie, but basically these four voivodships that I mentioned are voivodships, where this number of new diseases every day last week exceeds on average 50 people per 100 thousand, which are already the levels of diseases which at the second wave caused the introduction of sharpenings throughout Poland, which we called a fuse. The situation in the regions is indeed diverse, because at the second pole we have such voivodships as Lubelskie, Zachodniopomorskie or Opolskie, where this situation is definitely better, but unfortunately this situation is probably only better for a little while, because the same voivodships that I just mentioned notice the highest dynamics of growth. It can be seen that just as the second wave of Cortipinus passed from the south - I will remind you that it began in Małopolska, in Podkarpacie - through Poland in a northern direction, so now we have a wave that flows from the north to the south. If we're looking at whether it's a tendency persistently, whether we have any temporary growth, unfortunately very negative signals are also coming from the test orders which are submitted by basic health care, i.e. family doctors. There is absolutely no inhibition of the increase in the number of these orders. In recent weeks, it has been growing steadily. By comparison: in February or at the end of January, when there was a relatively smallest number of diseases, we had about 60,000 a week. orders. Today you can see that these jobs for the last week are already over 170 thousand. So see how the reporting rate of patients with symptoms also increases dynamically, with some suspicion of risk to family doctors, so that we have almost three times these orders. more than a month ago - that's what you have to say. The number of tests per week is also increasing, and this is a natural derivative of this situation, but as we look at the tests, we are primarily concerned that their hits are increasing. This hit, which again at the end of January and the beginning of February was in the order of 14,15% At this point, it's already reaching 30%, which is really every third test is hit, which also shows what situation we're in and what prospects we're in. Ladies and gentlemen! As I said at the outset, the main cause here is the emergence of a British mutation, which is according to various estimates from 40 to 70%. more contagious, but unfortunately, which is not in line with some predictions by experts that were presented at the turn of 2020 and 2021, this virus is also more pathogenic, this mortality according to our data and according to data that were collected in the UK, because it all started there when it comes to the third wave, unfortunately, is higher. So from the beginning of January, we've been taking action to sequencing the genome, which is to study what type of virus we're dealing with. Initially, it was a few hundred samples, at the moment our genome testing capacity is about 2,000 samples per month. Finally, when implementing certain improvements on the PZH side or health care centre, we want to reach about 5 000. samples tested per month. Unfortunately, because we perform these tests systematically, we see systematically that the contribution of this British mutation is growing very clearly. Indistinct. As we look at the last two, three months, because we're talking about the end of January, the first samples that we've been looking at had a share of 5%. And then in February, we saw that there was 15%. , at the end of February, at the beginning of March was 25%, and now, the latest results of the study say this, this share reaches 45%. This growth of the virus, or perhaps even the need to say displacement of other mutations, shows its strength, shows its dynamics of development, also shows the enormous danger it poses to the health of Poles. Of course, the whole situation with the increase in disease is translated into major changes in terms of the burden on hospital infrastructure. We're dealing on a scale of the last half month, and I'm going to talk about the last 15 days, but the level of bed occupation has increased from 15,000. to a level exceeding 20,000. Within 15 days, we have an increase in hospital coverage of more than 5,000. A similar rate can unfortunately be observed in the case of the so-called. Respirator beds, where from 1500 at the beginning of March we have more than 2,000 at the moment, i.e. we can see that this is the rate of growth in 15 days, we are talking about a larger 1/3 occupation of beds, regardless of whether we are talking about normal infrastructure or respirator infrastructure, that is the dynamics of the development of the pandemic of the British mutation. When we launched in March, we had a base prepared for 26,000. Beds, 2700, 2800 ventilators. Of course, we immediately took action to increase this infrastructure. They increased the number of beds from 26,000, respectively. to a level of almost 29,5 thousand. For the time being, you can say, there is a security buffer, but this security buffer is also regionally differentiated. We have regions where the tension associated with the use of beds is much higher. These are regions such as Mazowsze, such as Kujawsko-Pomorskie, because these are the two voivodships where there is the highest level of occupation exceeding 85% When it comes to respirator levels. That is why we decided to increase the total availability of beds by more than 8,000 in the coming days, next week and next week, so that we could reach a level of 37.5 thousand. beds available in the system. This increase in relation to the current situation, which is over 29 thousand, will be spread over two paces. About half of these beds, a little more, will be, of course, in the form of a decision made, on the side of the hospitals carried out this week, and the other half will be carried out in the following week. The cost of what? There'll be questions in a minute. At the cost of other beds? As far as the use of temporary hospitals is concerned, because I understand that this is what your question is about, temporary hospitals actually allow us to absorb this existing hospital infrastructure to a lesser extent, because we can use these beds first in regions where the situation is tense and not immediately occupy this infrastructure which is intended for the treatment of other diseases. Of course, a great deal of excitement in the context of the pandemic situation has aroused the decision to reduce the planned procedures. I think that the intention of this information today is above all to present the context from which this results. First of all, I would like to say that once again, when we took this decision, we managed to get ahead of a situation, which is not a small reactive one, but it was a proactive one, predicting that in the coming days there would be an escalation of the pandemic that this third wave would accelerate. This is not a decision that referred to this moment at the time when it was taken, but to the upcoming prospect of accelerating pandemic dynamics. Surprisingly, from my point of view, this is basically the third decision to limit the planned parties that we took during the pandemic, and this time it has aroused so much excitement. We all know very well that at the moment this threat is calculated by increasing the daily number of new hospitalizations is much greater than before. In the spring, during the so-called. The first wave, because it was practically not there, we had this decision taken in March, right at the beginning of the pandemic. The situation was similar in terms of the ranges that we have reduced. It was in the form of a soft recommendation. It was done exactly as it was done in the spring. Then in autumn, exactly on October 14th, we made the same decision. We had a large increase in disease during the second wave, which is why we had to make this decision as well. And those who think it's related to whether the staff were vaccinated or not are wrong, because those voices are falling. Well, here vaccination has absolutely no meaning, because those people who perform scheduled procedures are simply needed directly in the fight against COVID. All of them? They have to take care of these ventilator beds, work with those ventilator beds that fill up very quickly. They also fill up very quickly in temporary hospitals, but the beds themselves do not heal. This is the staff that plays a key role, and this decision, a very difficult decision, one of the many very difficult decisions that our government has to make, are decisions that provide for future developments and respond to the challenge we face. As we look at the consequences of those decisions that were made, every time a decision was made to limit the planned parties, those consequences were completely different. In the beginning, i.e. at the so-called. The first wave, the decision to reduce plans in April, was a critical month in terms of the decline in the number of treatments, in the case of several ranges, mainly those which were subject to restrictions, an average decrease of 80% compared to the level of treatments carried out in previous years. This was not only contributed by this decision, but also by some fear, some fear of patients coming to the hospital, because the same decision that was made in October resulted in a reduction of about 60%. treatments carried out in these areas. So that not only and only the decision depends on the level of reduction, it also depends on the attitude of patients. The most important thing I wanted to stress is that this decision is a recommendation. It is recommended that each time the patient waits for the scheduled procedure, whether or not this procedure is necessary and must be performed. From this point of view, this recommendation is not subject to emergency procedures or oncology procedures in any way. Besides, I wanted to make it very clear that oncology as such was not affected by this tribute or the need to make beds for the fight against COVID at all times, it was always surrounded by a safety buffer, concerning its special operating conditions. We wanted oncology to be this island, if you can say so, an oasis of peace in COVID, so that the oncology infrastructure was not affected, and it was not affected by the need for beds to fight against COVID. Another very important issue that shows how we deal with the problems that arose in the fight against the pandemic is the PulsoCare programme. The PulsoCare program gives the opportunity to any sick person who has a positive test, receive a pulsoximeter and conduct health monitoring. Well, the main cause of death we had in the past year is this so-called one. The excess number of deaths was too late to get patients to the hospital. To prevent this, we have launched a nationwide, powerful program that already covers over 300,000. patients. We're up to $300,000. We sent pulsoximeters to the patients. About 250,000. of these patients These are people over the age of 55 who are automatically given this opportunity. We're not waiting for them to go to the doctor, we're not waiting for them to fill out the form, but automatically, when we see a positive test result, we send a pulsoximeter with instructions. The device is only part of the home care package, because we have a special monitoring center where these readings for individual patients are constantly analyzed, monitored. If there's a deviation or a reading disorder, the consultant calls immediately. If the situation turns out to be more serious, we also have doctors and nurses at the monitoring center, and in extreme cases, I think we need to talk about it very openly, it allows you to call the medical emergency team at the right time. This programme, we hope, will contribute to reducing the number of deaths that are related to COVID. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] So there's no height.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u428	Thank you very much, Minister. Will Minister Waldemar Kraska speak? No, right? Thank you very much. But I think Anna Paluch wants to. Minister Paluch. Ladies and gentlemen, the Sejm has agreed that in the discussion on this item it will hear five minutes' statements in the ownership of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first person to speak is Mr Tomasz Latos of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u429	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to thank you for allowing the Minister to speak for so long, it was an extension of up to 16 minutes. Thank you for the marshal. [[Applause]] He didn't interrupt, he didn't interrupt, and thank you for listening to what the Minister had to say in focus, because it was extremely important information. I would like this to be an announcement of a good, substantive and balanced debate today, ladies and gentlemen. Why? Mr. Speaker! Sorry to interrupt for a second, sir. I wanted to tell you that I will never interrupt matters that are most important to Poles and Poles. This is the Minister's information on things we're most interested in. However, there is one thing I have to say to you, sir, that I have a heartfelt request for you. Mr. Terleck, in the debate in the plenary room, please tell your friends, including Marshal Terleck, [[Applause]] Because if he were in charge, the Minister wouldn't have gotten an extra 18 minutes. There you go. That's not nice. What was that for? Mr. Marshal, I'm afraid you've taken some time right now, which, I understand, you'll return it to me in a moment, and completely... But I didn't... Mr. Marshal, here's what I'm gonna say. I'm not taking anybody's time tonight. We sit until morning because this is the most important issue for Poland. There you go. Mr. Marshal, the opposite of a classic, you've gotten off on the right foot, and you've got off on the wrong foot. No need at all. [[Applause]] Ha, ha, ha! No need at all, because everything was going in the right direction. But let's just leave it at that. I'm not gonna talk about it anymore. Okay, then. Then start what you have to say. Ladies and gentlemen, in this very short time, which I have... No, I'm prolonging your time. Thank you kindly. Just to finish well, sir. [[Applause]] There you go. Ha, ha, ha! Jesus, but for the marshal to... Well, thank you, sir. Ad rem. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This debate is important because the problem with the coronavirus is something that is undoubtedly concerned thinks of all Poles every day. This is something that citizens really think about all over the world. And it is worth briefly referring to these statements of the Minister. Well, ladies and gentlemen, yes, the fact that we have a third wave right now is obvious to everyone. Everyone's watching this right now, the increasing number of diseases. And we have to say something that we talk about many times, I hope, over political divisions. A great deal, a great deal, ladies and gentlemen, depends on us. A great deal, because the fact that the number of people who have been vaccinated is increasing is clear and obvious. The fact that the number of healers is increasing - also. This, on the other hand, is our shared responsibility, our common attitude, also in this Chamber - keeping a distance between us, which I am appealing to some of you with a warm appeal, to set a good example. This is something we should always, really always remember. Because without such an attitude it will not be possible to stop the wave of a pandemic, it will not be possible to stop Coronavirus, the more that we are dealing with further mutations, to which we will really need to react on an ongoing basis. How? Vaccinations, research - that's one thing. This is, of course, the introduction of new treatments. It's something we're seeing, something that's also connected with a certain gift of heart, something that we can describe as giving our plasma, giving ourselves to others. This is all very important, but also, ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of other actions. Temporary hospitals. I hope that no one will criticize the establishment of temporary hospitals today. Yes, there you go, we can talk about the number of places, we can talk about the number of hospitals. The minister said 22 hospitals, 35 additionally, potentially, maybe a total of them. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a few thousand. places in hospitals that are currently occupied by 1.5 thousand. But I remind you that it wasn't that long ago criticized the fact that these hospitals weren't created, then that they were created and empty, which should actually be... Who? They're still empty. ...a reason to be satisfied, because it meant that these diseases were less at some point. And as important as they are, it is only today that this expected and announced third wave has arrived. It's a matter of other actions, ladies and gentlemen. There is also the question of what the Minister mentioned, namely the execution of planned or urgent procedures. There is no doubt that this is not only about the activities related to COVID, but also about actions and procedures related to saving the health and life, life and health of citizens. All of this will, of course, be done and done. There are wise, important decisions of hospital directors, wise, important decisions of individual doctors who qualify for specific procedures. But it is also, ladies and gentlemen, some joint action and our joint solidarity. Some procedures - as the Minister said - may be postponed a few weeks after at least the summit of the third wave has ceased. This is the way to approach not even the guidelines, but some of the recommendations mentioned by the Minister. We're getting to the next element - vaccination. How many, ladies and gentlemen, have come up with associated fake news or incorrect information. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in the hints, some analyses of the entire High House, but also of experts, there were reactions, there were adjustments in the order of vaccination, that certain additional groups of patients should include - what happened this week - oncology patients, transplant patients, dialysis patients. You could say that. This shows that everyone in the world is learning lessons, everyone in the world is learning in this pandemic, but it also shows some flexibility in government action. If necessary, such an adjustment shall take place. Is this the last debate on the pandemic, about Coronavirus? I'm afraid not. We will certainly continue to talk about this in the High House on a number of occasions. However, it is important, ladies and gentlemen, in this debate, that there be something constructive about these voices, which are still here today, about club speeches and questions. But can it be, or can it not be? The point is that there should be no criticism for criticism, so that there is something that will actually make another one, perhaps a correct amendment, and there will be an extension of the catalogue of actions proposed by the government at the moment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u430	Thank you very much. Mr Rajmund Miller, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u431	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I'm waiting for a very important thing. It's a little graph. There it is. I wanted to show you evidence that is irrefutable, proof of the effectiveness of the policy that you praise. Ladies and gentlemen, there are excess deaths during the pandemic in the countries of the European Union and Poland. Unfortunately, we're in the first place. This is the result of negligence in the health care system. Last year, 70,000. People died excessively not because of COVID. We've had this tendency for three years. Gentlemen of Ministers! Look at this with concern, because we came here not to criticize you, but to think about what needs to be improved. Respecting the Prime Minister, I would like to say that it is a shame that Mr Morawiecki is not here because he is the face of the success of PiS and the government in the fight against COVID. And I wanted to quote a quote from Prime Minister Morawiecki when the Minister was already talking about the third wave of pandemic. On March 8th, Tarnowskie Góry, Prime Minister Morawiecki says: we are coming out of a pandemic beaten but invincible. Prime Minister! How do you feel about those 70,000 families? people who died because of negligence in the field of health care? Meanwhile, public hospitals are filling in at an incredibly fast pace. We didn't criticize the formation of temporary hospitals, but you're still one step late. Maybe a mask... You're still one step too late, ladies and gentlemen. Keep looking forward. These temporary hospitals were set up too late. They cost PLN 1 billion and today these hospitals are unused, and you are filling public hospitals, recommending that the planned procedures be postponed. As far as these scheduled procedures are concerned, the Minister is saying that you will not refuse life-saving procedures. But you charge doctors with responsibility for the effects of delaying stents implants or aneurysm removal procedures when this aneurysm can spread - these are the consequences of patients not being hospitalized in a short time. Prime Minister! Minister! I would like you to say whether you identify yourselves with the scandalous statement of Senator Pęk, who said: for the fight against COVID, you must devote your treatment to cancer patients. Disgraceful! Well, is that what you think? Shame! Do you guys really think that? What do you say to patients who die of cancer who don't get treatment? Minister! I've got some attention for you now, too. You said: responsibility for the fact that so many Poles die is borne by Poles themselves, because they do not care about themselves, do not report to the hospital in time. Then how does that fit your recommendations? Are they supposed to report, or are they not supposed to report? Ladies and gentlemen, the health system is neglected. There is no long-term policy on this system. I wanted to tell you that we are at third place since the end of the European Union in terms of means per capita, per head, per citizen. Only Bulgaria, Latvia and, I think, Cyprus are behind us. I would like to say to you, even though you ministers are talking about such great testing of patients for the presence of COVID, that in this respect we are in the penultimate place in the European Union, just before Bulgaria. From the beginning of this pandemic, as early as January, when you knew there was going to be a pandemic, we said: test, test, test, test again. What were you doing? Prime Minister Morawiecki sent planes to the UK, brought Poles who went to Poland and carried out COVID. Without preparing quarantine facilities, without testing these people. It's a scandal, isn't it? Ladies and gentlemen, you are using the pandemic politically to promote yourself. That's where I resent it. But what are you talking about? Look, that's what you do with this pandemic, as you like. Before the presidential elections, Prime Minister Morawiecki said something to the older people who were at the election meeting, although as Prime Minister he should sit here in Warsaw, and watch over the interests of Poland, the Polish economy, and protect Poles from COVID. Member, and now you're not paying attention to the mask? I quote, Prime Minister Morawiecki said: I am glad that we are less and less afraid of this virus, this epidemic. What's with the mask? Shh... And that's a good approach, because he's in the back. There's no need to be afraid of him now. We have to go to the election. July 12th. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Don't meow. Once, the Member did not allow me to take the floor. That's what he said on July 1st at the pre-election meeting. Was the increase in the incidence and spread of this pandemic not the result of irresponsible government action, this speech (The Bell) and the release of Poles on holiday without any restrictions? And when we were talking about the necessary safeguards, about the tests, you weren't doing anything. About the masks. And then you panicked and ordered a freeze on the economy, too wide, completely unnecessary. About the masks. Perhaps fewer Poles died then, but you led entrepreneurs, hotelers and others to the current situation, to tragedy. These are people's dramas. Get to work, get serious about the COVID problem. Today is problem number one. Mr Morawiecki should sit here and answer all these questions, discuss the issues we are talking about. I was unable to present in five minutes all the negligence that was committed during this period. You guys are saying today... ...that's the most important thing. Madame, I am not discussing this with you. Listen to me. Cover your nose and mouth. Ladies and gentlemen... And you shut your mouth. But listen to me. Ladies and gentlemen, when things started to fall apart, you were asking us, the opposition, the question: What are we supposed to do? I'll tell you. I'm going to compare this to the hole boat we were talking about, that it's a hole, that it needs to be repaired, and that you guys let out into the full sea during a hurricane called a pandemic. You stayed on the shore safely, and you put the entire Polish society into this boat. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u432	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u433	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, There are two truths about the government's success in fighting the pandemic. One is the truth of time and the truth of the screen coming from the speeches of the Prime Minister and the Minister and the government media. The second truth is the number of infections and deaths, the truth about ambulances waiting in front of hospitals, the truth of doctors, rescuers and nurses trying to help patients, and the truth of patients who are often at the expense of the healthcare system, not the subject. And the doctors say, and here are the quotes, Minister, from today's day in my province: There is no quiet day. Human resources shortage, chaos, the whole system's a mess. The example comes from above - this is a statement Vice President of the Bydgoszcz Medical Chamber after the doctors were sent to the COVID hospital on maternity leave as to the COVID hospital were directed to doctors who take care of small children. Quote two: The government does not listen to experts, repeats mistakes, has no plan. There is no centre that manages the fight against COVID - says a well-known epidemiologist. And finally, quote three, also from today: I have to cancel difficult liver and pancreas operations. This is a death sentence postponed in time - alerted an oncologist surgeon from the university hospital. The fight against the pandemic has no face of the right or left. He's got a patient's face waiting to be rescued. The face of the Polish healthcare system is you, Minister, and the Prime Minister, who together with the government was to protect patients from infection, and the infected patient was to treat effectively and with all available means. Did you, Minister, keep this face and carry out the task? Doctors and patients say not always. Government television has repeatedly shown temporary hospitals with staff and beds waiting for patients. Politicians from various ministries reported obediently how short and ready they were to fight the pandemic, while the virus did not give in to this country's propaganda and hit the unprepared with double force. Because when there was a time between the second and third waves of pandemics, you just didn't prepare anything. When Mr Szumowski left his post, he said he was leaving programs and scenarios in his desk. Except he forgot to leave the minister the key to that desk. Today I wanted to appeal to the Prime Minister - maybe he has a call to Minister Szumowski - to call Minister Szumowski, have him pass on these programs and scenarios. Today, unfortunately, the government is still out of control of the epidemic, but the epidemic is out of control of the government. As parliamentarians of the opposition, we are not happy about the failure of the government in the fight against the pandemic, because this failure is linked to the immensity of human tragedies, with thousands of deaths. For many Poles it is a failure after the loss of business, which built generations, which today face bankruptcy. It's a failure and tears after losing loved ones. It is trying to create media messages that citizens who do not follow the recommendations are responsible for the pandemic, including those who do not comply with the Polish constitution. Well, some of them don't apply because they see and see how the prime minister, the deputy prime minister, ministers and other piS celebrities behaved. Has any of the politicians of the right hand been punished for such behavior? There was no such information. Therefore, I would like to address you, Prime Minister, from this stand, with the question of whether we have one right in Poland or two rights: one for Poles and others for ruling elites. There was also no information in the Minister's material where the ventilators were purchased and paid for by Minister Szumowski. There's no answer, how is it that the entrepreneur robbed the Ministry of Health of 70 million dollars, and the entire army of special forces and prosecutors didn't lift a finger to prevent this theft? Those millions still haven't returned to the ministry. What do Poles think about the secret service of Mr. Vice Prime Minister and the Attorney General? Was it just a temporary deconcentration of these politicians, or is there a broader arrangement? When, Prime Minister, will this case be finalized? As a club in June, we asked you, Minister, who from the ministry, first of all, ordered, second, accepted, and third, paid funds to this entrepreneur. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're still waiting to hear from you today. In March 2020, the Council adopted The Ministry of Health bought over 5 million masks from a ski instructor. It's not settled yet either. I also ask when the government is going to take seriously the chaos of the vaccination organization, because today these vaccination points are nearly 6,000, and some 80-year-olds, as well as they do, will be vaccinated at the earliest in the autumn. How is the government going to solve this problem? The Left Coalition Parliamentary Club has a negative assessment of the government's effectiveness in the fight against the pandemic and the organisation of the vaccination system. Poles deserve modern and effective health care. We propose that the government put emphasis on the following measures. Mr. Marshal, three sentences about what we're proposing to the government. Mr President, I have given the Minister 18 minutes. I don't want to take anything from you. Talk to me. Thank you very much. So we propose: greater access for patients to reliable testing, an urgent change to the rules on the need to return money to the NFZ by hospitals for failing planned benefits during the epidemic, the use of national recovery plan measures to, firstly, increase the number of medical universities and the scope of training in medical professions, introduce such a system of work and pay of medical services to stop Polish doctors and Polish nurses in Poland, organise a system of research on the development of epidemiological threats, finally support the pharmaceutical industry, so that on the one hand it can develop and on the other hand it can produce both foreign and Polish vaccines. And if I could, I would like on behalf of my club, because we are discussing health care, to thank doctors, nurses, diagnostics, radiologists, paramedics, physiotherapists, salons and sterilization workers for their efforts and fighting for Polish patients. Ladies and gentlemen, fight for the health of Poles, we will fight for you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u434	Thank you very much. Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u435	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! Prime Minister! High Izbo! We've been struggling with a pandemic for a year now. 47,000. people died of COVID, and that's the same because they didn't get into the doctor. This is the most difficult situation since the end of World War II. We should be united in the fight against COVID, we should work together, we should normally talk to each other. And the beginning of the fight against the pandemic was that, Minister, it only lasted two weeks, and then you couldn't have a dialogue. Dialogue is the responsibility of the government - dialogue with opposition, with society, with NGOs, with local governments. This is the first flaw and the first giant mistake you've made this year. You made the wrong decision today. He asked Mr Latos to direct you, to give you advice. That's why we're all here from the opposition -- not to argue, to argue, just to straighten you out on a better path, to show you that you can do things a little differently. The state specialization exam is suspended until May 17th. You are chasing doctors from Cracow to Gdansk to go for an oral exam. That's how the anesthesiologists are supposed to go. Is that normal? That's the thing, foreign doctors like. from Ukraine can come, without knowing the language, and are to treat in Poland, and Polish good specialists, who have already been studying for 6 years, are now to have a blocked specialization exam? What's going on here? They've changed their lives over the last few months. They could not participate so actively in the work of the troops because they had to study for the specialization exam. And today they find out that this exam isn't going to work? Minister, please withdraw from this decision. The President of Matyja, the President of the General Medical Council, has written to you twice on this matter. A year ago, when there were 20 cases a day in Poland, you exempted from the oral exam, and very well. There's 20,000 today. cases and an oral exam not in Krakow, but in Gdańsk, not in Wrocław, how someone did specialization there, only in Szczecin. Please come to your senses, really, for God's sake, withdraw from this decision... Please. ...bring back the specialized exams, release from the oral exam. Another question - field hospitals. You're crowding with this propaganda of yours, I don't know if it's television, but how else do you call it that we didn't want field hospitals, temporary hospitals? 12 October, 15 October, 16 October, our speeches, my speeches to the Minister, to Prime Minister Morawiecki: a plan to build temporary hospitals as soon as possible. Why wasn't that plan on vacation? What was more important then? Fancy Andrzej Duda on the coronavirus? By the way, Minister, Prime Minister, where is President Andrzej Duda? Have you seen him lately? Because when there was an election campaign, he was sitting here at the gallery, bringing bills to the Sejm, making meetings, inviting everyone. He recently made one meeting, just forgot to invite the medical authorities, the nursing authorities, the laboratory diagnostics and rescuers, he didn't think of them. But, sir, this is not the place. Where is he? Why don't you find him and make a decision? Because when it was lansing, how it was lansing on the coronavirus, opening the production line of disinfectant and how you had to go to the hospital, because there was a campaign, that was, and six months ago there hasn't been. At least you work, Minister, sometimes you do better, sometimes worse, okay, but you can see you're doing something. And the head of state, the President of the Republic of Poland abdicated and did not do so completely, but promised otherwise. [[Applause]] Can you see it? Mistakes have to be admitted, and it's nothing wrong, because pandemics are so difficult that mistakes can be made, a difficult situation can happen and you have to hit your own breasts first. Not like Prime Minister Morawiecki proposed a week ago - hitting someone else's breasts. Although you have said many times: pandemic in reverse, everything is under control, we are ready for everything, so it was not and you know it. You could come, you could say, we were wrong, we couldn't handle everything, what we were able to do, we did. What do you need to do with the scheduled procedures? It's not a case. only whether the surgery will take place or not, but for a patient who, for example. He had a scheduled spinal surgery, it's a matter of whether he's going to walk or not. It's a matter of whether she's going to talk or if she's going to be able to move and communicate. This is a matter of life and death. And you mustn't condemn to death, to disability, [[♪ The bell ♪]] disability, suffering from the patient, regardless of the disease he suffers from. It is simply incompatible with ethics not only medical - it is not consistent with human morality and ethics, and human rights. [[Applause]] If Poles pay a health contribution, the Polish state is obliged to provide medical services under the health contribution... Yes, sir. ... regardless of the patient's illness. It should be rescued in the case of COVID, it should be rescued in cancer, in cardiovascular disease, in neurological disease and in mental illness, in any disease it affects. You're making contributions for this. If the public health service can't cope with that - I understand that... Don't talk to each other, just listen. ...because today many doctors are involved in the treatment of COVID-19 - why don't you pay 400 private hospitals, thousands of private medical offices to receive non-COVID patients? You shouldn't make these hospitals into COVID hospitals, but you should be treating all the diseases they want and need to treat patients. According to your statistics, we have 67,000. extracurricular deaths. This number is smaller than in the case of GUS statistics, but it is still huge - over 67 thousand. Deaths. This percentage - by 23,5% more deaths in Poland - this is the highest percentage. Mr Rajmund Miller spoke about this. These data are dramatic and terrifying. Half of them died on COVID, half by COVID, because people didn't get into the doctor. The situation was equally dramatic during the first six weeks of this year. Hence our conclusion: private health care should be activated for the treatment of all other diseases, operating procedures, rehabilitation and diagnostics and financed from the National Health Fund budget. It's a matter of limitations. You are now deciding to close the voivodships. If we have outbreaks in which there are the most infections, in two powiats, which are not in one voivodship, but in voivodships bordering on one another, because they are border counties between voivodships, isn't it better to approach it from the district level? Between the Gold County in Wielkopolska and Ostrzeszów in the same voivodship there are 300 km, but the Gold County and Ostrzeszowski are border districts including the voivodship and border with other voivodships. A district approach in each voivodship would be more effective. You're only doing this on a regional level. There are counties in the region where there are very few infections, but they are closed because the province is closed. There are also counties with a large number of infections, but the voivodship is open. This is a mix-up. You don't have a strategy. Go down to the county level and put restrictions on this level if you need them. Take an example from our Mayor of Grodzisk - when he saw that the situation in Grodzisk was dramatic, he decided to close it. He is responsible and has not waited for your decisions at voivodship or national level. The price you pay today unfortunately for your mistakes is life, health, being. We've all lost someone. Each of us has someone in the family, among our friends, in the workplace who's lost his life because of COVID. I have been to too many COVID funerals - the Minister and the State have probably been to such funerals - to approach this matter in a way that consists only in observing the pillars of support and feeling satisfied with some PR procedure that you will perform. This is a procedure. on a living organism that requires precision, cooperation of the whole team and trust in this team. Trust in the government team has been damaged by wrong decisions, lack of preparation and no plan. Don't be afraid to tell people the truth no matter what she is. The truth to speak, the truth to guide, the truth to demand and the truth to seek. It's also our job to demand the truth from you. She can sometimes be very difficult, painful and unpleasant, but only she can lead us through a pandemic. I beg you, Minister, also respecting what you've been listening to from us... Involvement of pharmacists in administering one dose to healthy people. Some decisions are good and we appreciate them. It is not that we see nothing of what we have done - also together, also on your initiative - but if you do not stop practicing coronalance and propaganda rather than telling the truth, it will end badly. It will end badly for Poland, for citizens. It's gonna end badly for you guys at the end, too. Aren't you ashamed of yourself as a doctor? At the end of the thank-you note. Like the Left Member, I would like to thank all those who are fighting the pandemic. You've exchanged them beautifully. This is a supplement that we need today. I also have a request to the Minister: if we want to appreciate those who have been fighting a pandemic for a year, let us appreciate doctors, nurses - that is very good - but also hall workers, administrative staff, technical staff in hospitals, anyone who puts their lives and health at risk in the fight against the coronavirus for our lives and health. Minister! Finally, a wish for you. I wish you could do it. It's not a measure. Only political success and organizational efficiency. It's really about survival, it's about survival. We may disagree, we may differ, but I will wish you well, because I know that if we go through this pandemic, we will all benefit from it. If you fail, it will be the failure of Poland as a whole. You can count on the support and substance of the opposition. Today there was no shouting in this room, there was no excessive politics. Politics must always be a little present. First he kicked, now... No, it's not politics, Prime Minister. You listened fairly. Mr Latos spoke well. You know, you have to have emotions, too. You may be unintelligent about it, but you can't be unintelligible if you experience it every day. I'm sure you're experiencing that, too, because these signals are coming to you. Don't give in to such a shot at all costs. Finish your work. Happy birthday. This will be the measure of our common success. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u436	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Tuduj, Circle of the Polish Confederation. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u437	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! First of all, I would like to remind the honourable Minister that he is a Minister of Health and not a Minister of COVID-19. I think this is a very important point in the context of how this debate began, how it has been done so far. Recently, the voice of the medical community has become more pronounced, challenging the fight against COVID-19, the government line. Quote: Dr. Zbigniew Martyka, head of the observation and infectious unit at the hospital in Dąbrowa Tarnowska, states that the current government policy cost more than 75 thousand lives. people, undiagnosed and untreated just by fighting the coronavirus. He's asking how many more people have to die so we can come to our senses. The Epidemiologist Dr. Halat estimated that the paralysis of health services in Poland resulted in immature, ill-considered orders of the President of the NFZ, the regulation of the Minister of Health and the Act. Next, pulmonologist Prof. Piotr Kuna, head of Internal Disease Clinic, asthma, allergy of the University Clinical Hospital in Łódź, criticizes the recommendations of the NFZ regarding limitations of planned benefits, says that there are still checks of voivodeship and NFZ: whether we have accepted someone planned, we are being prosecuted for this. At the same time, which is particularly outrageous, Senator PiS Marek Pęk directly, without any backyard says that it is necessary to save people who are dying of coronavirus, downloading doctors from other departments, among others. From the oncology wards. By the way, my dear Minister, the subject of volunteer doctors, their specializations, which are unfinished. Have you cleared up the doctors here? Because there is no one to treat, and doctors in specializations are experiencing drama, because these specializations to them, not all of them, but some of them, have been interrupted. The consequences of such a policy are pitiful. I'm going back to oncology. Here's the question of diagnosis, the question is that if these people don't come to the doctor, there are teleporades, these cancers aren't diagnosed. The incidence of cancers fell by almost 30%, which is not possible of course, it did not fall, but the diagnosis fell. Late diagnostics, high risk of death - unfortunately, that's what it looks like. Tough question: Is cancer treatment expensive? Isn't this about financial matters? Due to the epidemic, almost 1/3 of the number of treatments performed at the University Hospital in Krakow fell. Considering September Ub. r., in my home Wrocław in the clinic of heart disease was made 40% less scheduled procedures than at the same time a year before. Prof. Adam Witkowski, President of the Polish Cardiology Society, pointed out that in cardiology the number of planned treatments decreased by 70%. The number of 500,000 is given elsewhere. And it's not coming back to normal. It's absurd, we don't question it, we're not COVID's negationists, but health. Poles are not just one disease, you have to have the whole context in mind. Therefore, the Confederation has been calling for the release of hospitals for months, the release of the health system, not to divide Poles into better and worse ones, for those who have a better disease or one that is fashionable. Finally, I wanted to pay my respects to the district hospital in Kłodzek, which has just returned to scheduled procedures. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u438	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Circle of the Parliamentary Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u439	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'll start with the logic exercise. 46,000 died on COVID. People officially died on non-COVID 70,000. People. Why was Mr. Kosiniak-Kamish at people's funerals at COVID and not at the funerals of those people who died of other diseases? Are they worse? So you have to remember that. However, please also bear in mind that, as I said, the Minister was unfortunately not in the Chamber - no one is working on a cure for COVID. The COVID medications are here, Minister, you know that. No one's taking care of it. We suspect it's because when people get COVID, it's 20% of them get sick, 90% of them get sick. It goes through a little bit, it takes 2% to count, it makes 2% of people. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But vaccines can be injected into anything, and that's why they're all dealing with vaccines, and no one's dealing with medications. If there was a cure, people wouldn't want to vaccinate themselves. And that's the answer to the question of why you don't produce a cure for the COVID, which is, Minister. I repeat, everyone knows that very well. Thirdly, I would like to remind you for the fifth time in this Chamber that Poland has caught up with Sweden and Brazil, that it will probably chase Lithuania tomorrow and, apparently, it is already before Sweden. Sweden didn't do any special things, high school was closed sometimes, primary schools were never closed, there was no lockdown and no quarantine. The same thing happened in Brazil, where there was no carnival in Rio, but there were also no special restrictions. This is where we talked about the 70,000. The people who died, but it wasn't just because the government wasn't working, but because you were doing COVID hysteria, you were doing it, too. And we said it wasn't a plague. You guys were hysterical. People were afraid to go to hospitals, and that's why they were dying because of the hysteria that journalists and politicians were doing and the officials were doing. You're all to blame. The only Confederation voted against all these hysterical laws, we were the only ones who voted against it. And you're all to blame. Mr. Marshal! Thank you very much for letting me speak for a while longer, but really, the matter is extremely important, the matter needs to be discussed. There is no serious discussion about the disease. You can't do that in this room because it's politics, right? But there's no serious discussion. Minister! You have experts who are ridiculous, who speak complete nonsense. You listen to them. Talk to serious people, not people who are either experts because no one else was there or are being paid by pharmaceutical companies. It's also a plague. They're not the only experts here. There is enormous corruption in the European Union. Mrs Ursula von der Leyen is, as you know, suspected of various things. She's the one negotiating to buy vaccines. Why is it from an officer who's convicted in the United States of America of corruption among doctors? Nobody asks that question. Why are there various sensations published that the vaccine, and this is AstraZeneca, and Pfizer, and this is a Russian vaccine, and this is Chinese... Nobody's gonna do one simple thing. Minister, all these vaccines should be in pharmacies. Everyone should buy them themselves, and then he would be responsible for taking AstraZeneca instead of you. And you said first that you had to buy AstraZeneca, just like the Germans did, and now you say, "Maybe we shouldn't buy it at all." Why do you want to take responsibility for people? Let people buy their own Chinese, Russian, Swiss, and hell knows what vaccine. Don't let the government do that. Why should the government be responsible for people? Are these the cattle that need to be planted? These are the responsible people who are getting vaccinated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u440	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, near Poland 2050. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u441	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I regret the fact that Prime Minister Morawiecki is not with us today. As I understand it, the Prime Minister is just coming out of the pandemic, paraphrasing, slightly bruised, but victorious. He only left 70,000 on the battlefield. Victims. This is the number of excess deaths registered in Poland only last year. What did you do wrong? First of all, you told the doctors to leave the country. Secondly, spending on health care is far from 7% GDP, because every year you prefer to spend billions of zlotys, e.g. on television, which tells nonsense about your next victory over the pandemic. Exactly five months ago, you stopped for the first time, Minister, the planned diagnostic and surgical procedures. You've had five months to learn from your mistakes and find out what needs to be done differently. You had five months to set up temporary hospitals. You had time to train your staff and really get ready for the third wave of pandemics. However, it was only when the intensive care units started to get tight that the medical centers started training and it was on-line training. Hands up, ladies and gentlemen, who among you would like to be connected to a ventilator by a person who learned his online service? I don't see what they want. I don't think that's weird. And who would like to be connected to a ventilator at all, my fellow Member? The answer to the question of why you recommend stopping planned procedures is, in a sense, quite simple. In the last five months, you have done nothing to train and prepare medical personnel for the third wave of pandemics. What could you do? You could train nurses and even students of recent years of medicine to work in COVID or work in intensive care units. It's not that any of them can hook up a ventilator, it's that they can set its parameters according to an anesthesiologist's instructions. Thanks to this, an anesthesiologist would be a bit relieved, and as a result could help more patients. Simple, isn't it? Similarly, anesthesiology nurses. If the nursing part of their duties were taken over by students of recent years of medicine, more patients could be covered by professional care. Except you guys didn't want to just do it. So you have temporary hospitals today, but you don't have people who could work in them. Minister, it's not lack of beds, it's not the lack of ventilators that's the biggest problem today. You know very well it's the lack of hands to work. The pathology of network hospitals today, I observe even in my own region. How are network hospitals supposed to conduct planned procedures while they're still on the front line in the fight against COVID? In the Wielkopolska Voivodeship, in Słupcy or in Środa Wielkopolska, the only hospitals in the county have turned into COVID hospitals. There's no way anyone's gonna be able to do the surgery or the surgery. At the hospital in Gniezno, surgeons work as specialists in infectious diseases. You know very well that there are no extra hands to work there, and patients are waiting for scheduled surgeries and procedures. There's something morally repulsive about your soft recommendation to stop the treatments. You want to blame all your responsibility on doctors and hospital directors. It deprives them of the comfort of their work. We are now facing another protest by resident doctors, whose health minister plans to suspend the possibility of passing a State Specialist exam. Minister, thousands of patients are waiting for treatment. You mustn't take their professional help lightly. Those doctors who can't take the state exam today have 5 and 6 years of experience in bed work. They're ready to take a job, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And you want to extend the teaching process with a light hand. They're needed today to fight the pandemic. What can be done now that the third wave has become a fact? First of all, you can finally take responsibility for your decisions. The doctor, the hospital director, must have a sense of comfort in his work if it is to be effective. Secondly, consider the option of stopping planned procedures depending on the situation in a given region or district. Clear guidelines would help both doctors and patients. Of course, additional staff, such as technical staff, must also be trained. Third, learn from the mistakes you make. Already today you need to think about how to revise health policy, how to invest in the development of doctors and how to finally contribute to health care. This third wave of pandemics will probably go through as the first two - in complete chaos. When the wave goes down, you really need to think seriously and draw conclusions. It's up to you how tall the next one's gonna be. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u442	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we've finished our statements. I have a proposition for you. We agreed that when it comes to the statements of clubs and wheels, in no way will I limit my time. Now we're going to ask you a question. The questions are to be asked. I think one minute will be enough for you... No, no, no. ...the more that 50 people are asked questions. Ladies and gentlemen, questions are not statements. Each of you, each of the clubs has been given unlimited time before, so I think we're doing this reasonably. Mr Piotr Uruski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will ask question No. 1. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u443	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In view of the transformation in Poland of parts of hospitals into single-name hospitals intended solely for the treatment of patients with COVID-19, which makes it impossible for these hospitals to perform ordinary services, e.g. in the field of cardiology, neurology, surgery and the like, and in 2020 they had and in the current - 2021 they have paid hospital lump sums for this purpose, although they cannot achieve it for objective reasons, the question arises whether hospitals converted into single-name hospitals intended to fight the coravirus will have to return this lump sum to the National Health Fund cashier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u444	Thank you, sir. Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u445	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! Turns out you're not in power for difficult times, you're not in power for pandemics. Poles pay a very high price for your mistakes and negligence. You say the main cause of the third wave is the British variety, but you invited her. You sent even bigger planes and didn't test at airports. Temporary hospitals - 10 are closed. The vaccinations - seniors - started only one month after the start of vaccination. Mr. Pop says there must be casualties, that people with oncology diseases will be victims of COVID. As far as tests are concerned, we take 26th place in 27 European countries. Dramas of families, death, disability, grief - this is the result of your actions. First place in the European Union. We're in first place when it comes to the number of extracurricular deaths. Ladies and gentlemen, you have your Bergamo. It's November. Ninety-six percent died in November. More people than usual. So apologize to the Poles, apologize for what you did to them.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u446	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u447	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll start with a simple case like this. The Minister is talking about testing the system. No, we're testing how much and what doctors, doctors, nurses, paramedics, diagnes, salons, health professionals can bear. We're testing them. This isn't some abstract system. There's been talk of what we can do to help. [[Game in the O.R.]] Madame, I really did not disturb you. You're talking about what needs to be done to help. Maybe first of all, we need to make sure that there are no such situations as in Krakow. NFZ wants the University Hospital in Krakow to reimburse part of the advances paid for treatment during the pandemic, among others. at the mental health center. At a time when it should organise health care, the hospital must explain itself of course: that during a pandemic there is no way to complete the contract in its entirety. Yet we know very well that the situation of patients who are psychiatrically treated is really dramatic. So why don't you just start by checking and clarifying the documents so that the NFZ doesn't want this kind of advance payment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u448	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Dariusz Klimczak, the Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u449	Thank you, Marshal. I would like to ask the Minister of Health to clarify the situation with regard to the State Specialisation Exam. There were a lot of doctors who were shocked by this decision. I will read just one message from Mrs Anna, who asks for the Minister's task: What right have we been suspended from the specialization exams we have been preparing for for many months and which were to take place within a dozen days? She cancels her oral exams in advance, the schools work remotely, and the doctor can't write the test? These are the most serious exams of our career. Ms. Marta: For 3 months - hard work on books, specially planned and taken vacations for this purpose, so also absence from the hospital, the whole family involved in helping the child, life with savings and thousands of people in one or another but similar situation. No one understands these decisions. I ask that the Minister explain to us today why these young doctors, the future of our country, put us in this position. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u450	Thank you, sir. Mr Krystian Kaminski, Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u451	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You have to be clear: lockdown policy doesn't work, she doesn't stop any wave, she just accelerates it. On Thursday you announced lockdown in Lubuskie Voivodeship since Monday. If you'd seen what happened on Friday and Saturday in the markets and other places that haven't been allowed since Monday, you'd know that in a week and a half in Lubuskie, we'd just have what you warned us about. Besides, it's enough to compare the two states of Florida and California to know that this lockdown policy you're running is going nowhere. And the second topic is the COVID hospitals. We have a hospital in Sulechów, which was a COVID, and then for 2 and 3 months he took patients normally for surgery, now he's again a COVID. These people are calling me right now and telling me how to treat them and asking why they're being treated like this. They had planned procedures, they want to save their health, and the state only treats patients with COVID. What am I supposed to tell these people now? That their lives are worse than the lives of COVID patients? You can't do that.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u452	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, near Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u453	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'd like to ask you about the state specialty exams. Why such a decision that you will not carry it out? The doctors who were supposed to join him, they're probably inoculated in a lot of ways. On the other hand, we know that in January, for example, a stationary exam for the judge's application was organized in Krakow. We really need all hands to work in hospitals today. These people have been studying for the exam over the last few months, preparing to take the exam for specialization, often at the expense of personal life and work. Today we need them really on the front line to fight the pandemic, while there may be a protest. That would be unimaginable. Step away from this decision. These are doctors with experience and really this exam can be conducted calmly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u454	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u455	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It must be acknowledged, ladies and gentlemen, that you are consistent, consistent with the principle that says: the worse, the better. Let me remind you that in the organization of temporary hospitals, you asked the questions: What are these hospitals for? I mean, we have fixed hospitals, county hospitals. Don't lie to me. Don't lie to me! Don't lie to me! The moment these hospitals were set up... Don't lie to me! Mr. Marshal... Liar! Liar! But is it really the Sejm's seriousness to scream liar? Come on. Who's lying here? Do you have to act like a menagerie? Okay, but you have the right to ask a question. There you go. Sign up and do it. Please, sir. Thank you. The moment these hospitals were set up, you asked why they weren't filled. The moment, unfortunately... Success. ...patients have been transported there, you raise the plarum that the pandemic situation is so bad. That's why, Minister, I'd like to ask you a question. But this is the situation, and unfortunately, with this attitude of opposition (the bell) we will continue to discuss this pandemic. It is important to deal with the pandemic as soon as possible, and this is only possible through mass vaccinations. I would like to ask you, Minister, when is the deadline for all willing citizens of all ages to be vaccinated? Today, taking into account also other countries, both globally and Europeanly, Poland is in a very high position, but... Thank you very much, sir. But I'd like to finish. ...Vaccinations are important... But time's up. ...the vaccination of all Poles. And I would like to ask about this time frame. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u456	That is a very interesting question when all Poles will be vaccinated. I'm also very curious about the answers myself. Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u457	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! What you've told us is that we know everything from the conference. Actually, nothing has changed in your story here. On the other hand, the subject of our meeting today is also about the possibility of providing the services planned earlier. And you only said about your recommendations not to perform benefits or benefits, where the doctor's responsibility still rests. We would like to know, or at least I, what your plans are for COVID patients, non-COVID patients and health professionals, because we have more and more cases at the moment where the health status of those who have been ill is so serious that they should also be given treatment. Is there a plan here? I would just like to say that, as far as the reasons you specifically mentioned regarding the level of reduction in procedures are concerned, I wouldn't exactly agree with that, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But I don't have time to develop it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u458	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Obaz, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u459	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I have this question: why are you lying? I'm asking you in public because I'm not going to talk about statistics. I'm talking about a situation that touched me personally. On September 30th, I found out that my father has two kidney cancers. On October 14th, he was discharged from a stable hospital just when you stopped all oncology. The planned operation - November 3rd, 17th November, end of November, 17th December. He died December 14th. Minister! I'm not the statistical Kowalski who's shown in the presentations. I'm the person that personally touched it. The thing that bothered me most was that today you lied to all of us, not only to the parliamentarians, but also to everyone who's watching us. I'm not telling you this because I'm sorry, I'm just saying because I don't want to, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I want people like Zbigniew Ziobro to tell you that this gentleman is never gonna get anyone killed again. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u460	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u461	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Prime Minister! In November, during similar information, I asked you how you intend, Minister, to exploit the potential of people who are healed. There's more and more of them. Some have been through this in an official way through the examination, they have it confirmed, others are simply hidden healers and also have their resistance. I don't think this change has occurred because you decided, first of all, that it's possible to inject one dose of the vaccine, which completely changes the situation because it accelerates the queue. On the other hand, the same people who are healed, I am also that person, after all they still have confirmed with subsequent tests their resistance. After all, they can be active participants in services, which are provided by economic operators who ask for openness. And I think that's part of it, too. I know this is a very difficult time and it will be difficult for you to decide, but this is an element that should be used in this strategy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The question is whether you are considering this issue. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u462	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Bartus, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u463	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister! It has been more than a year since the outbreak of the pandemic in Poland. We're all tired of this pandemic, with these sharpenings. It's the same kind of intimidating attitude, and on the other hand, saying that there's no pandemic, we're all psyched. It also affects the psyche of young people, children who have been deprived of access to schools. But these are the costs of saving the lives of those who are at risk of getting sick and dying, who are most affected by it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Although Dr. Veterinarian, Dr. Immunology, who's doing research on the coronavirus, on transmission, he's putting a lot of pressure on it and talking about the fact that we still have to close schools, we all know what the consequences are. Minister, we're not asking when the pandemic will end, but do we have a plan for sharpening or getting out of these restrictions? That's my first question. Two. There's so much talk about vaccines. Do we know anything more about these vaccines? Will it be necessary for these vaccines to repeat vaccination? Are these vaccines going to be for a few years... We're done here, Member. ...those vaccinated to be protected? Thank you. [[Applause]] No one knows because there were no tests.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u464	Thank you very much for your questions. Mr Dariusz Joński, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u465	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You misled me by saying that the opposition questioned the meaning of temporary hospitals. In mid-October, when a patient died of COVID in an ambulance outside a hospital in Nysa, when a patient with COVID died in a hospital in Toruń, because there was no place for him, a paramedic in Mazowsze, you just decided to build temporary hospitals. Most of them weren't ready until December and January. That's what happened on the second wave. We've got a third wave. You announced the third wave on February 19th. We still have 10 temporary hospitals closed today. With Mr Szczerba, with Mr Jaros, with Mr Mishalski and other Members, we have checked these temporary hospitals. In Wroclaw, an empty hospital until we started a check-in last week. In Kielce, a hospital without beds at all. The governor opened up, held a conference, then ordered these beds to be taken away. This is the temporary hospital in Kielce. You were a politician in Radom. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You came here, you threw away God's spirit of the responsible director of this hospital. Finally closed hospitals in Szczecin, Ciechocinek and Łódź. It is the decision of the Łódź Voivodeship, which tells in the city hospital in Łódź to secure 44 places for patients with COVID, and next to it is an empty temporary hospital. It's still empty. Minister! Short question: When will you open temporary hospitals? Nearly PLN 1 billion has gone out of our public money. I'm also talking about Minister Sasin's hospitals to build them. Till today, these hospitals are closed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u466	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u467	Dear Marshal, Minister! I'm glad the marshal let you speak for so long. You've said a lot, it's true, but I'll tell you, there are even more questions after these answers than before. I will specifically ask: Who will be responsible for implementing the administrative decision taken by Prime Minister Morawiecki's government to suspend the scheduled procedures when the patient fails to perform the procedure in question, the patient will die: doctor, hospital director, minister? According to medical standards, the doctor makes the final decisions. If this is still valid, in difficult cases, additional responsibility will fall to medical staff and hospital management, or to treat a patient with COVID, or to perform a lifesaving procedure. I do not envy doctors who have received additional responsibility from the government as a gift. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How will surgery be carried out? After all, it's going to be a huge logistics operation, because not only doesn't enough doctors and nurses work, there's also a shortage of technical staff. Is there enough staff to set new deadlines? Until when are the procedures stopped? What about the procedures scheduled for three months from now, six months from now? Are they gonna be there, or are they even canceled? Will patients receive information about new dates? Miss... I'm almost done, Marshal. I'm sorry. Is this supposed to be a saint never, and patients are gonna have to poke around to find out? And patients. I mean, it's gonna cause a lot of chaos and panic. Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u468	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u469	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You have presented a wonderful plan to take care of patients with COVID-19, a pulsoximetry program, a health monitoring centre for those who are ill. It sounds great in theory, but practice, ministers, is very brutal. On Friday, I'm going to a friend's funeral in northern Wielkopolska who died in a COVID relationship. When the shortness of breath came, he called the hospital. He didn't get a pulse ox. This hospital refused to intervene. He didn't get proper care. He was advised to take vitamins. I'm not gonna burden you with this difficult situation, but I wanted to ask you if you're outside of this great plan. [[♪ The bell ♪]] you're going to monitor how it works physically and in practice, because unfortunately there's a lot of evidence that it doesn't work despite perhaps good intentions. Prime Minister Glinski! I ask you to control your behavior and emotions, because this is inappropriate in this serious discussion... Mr... ...such behaviour by the Deputy Prime Minister of the Polish Government. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u470	Mr President, thank you for your vote, but I think that... There's no culture in Glenn. Sir, let's try to approach everyone the same way. Do you think it is appropriate to draw attention to the Prime Minister of the Polish Government in this way? And the Prime Minister's agreement is still on the level? I would like to draw attention to this too, sir. I try to be really fair enough, but I can't be totally fair. Member of Czesław Hoc, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u471	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! It would seem that in the health debate there will be balanced, empathetic voices, with deeper reflection. After all, health is one of the most important social values. Together, in solidarity and in social discipline, we will achieve collective immunity more quickly. After all, the national vaccination program is functioning. Caution, responsibility and anticipation, i.e. the ability to predict, are characteristic of this program. On the other hand, black-sightedness, defeticism, constant criticism and fear do not help, on the contrary. Remember, Doctor, I am speaking to one of the previous speakers, that in every danger of life and health, Polish health care provides immediate and professional assistance. It is not that in the case of stroke or early rehab or cardiovascular events no assistance is provided. If that's what the doctor says... He's either never been a doctor or he's not gonna be a doctor if he doesn't know it. It's just unbelievable to say something like that, to say that in cases of life and health threats there is no medical assistance. Questions, Minister, for you. Telemedicine in the coronavirus. That's the first question. Second question. Amantadine. When it's called. Hard points, end points in this very good scientific study? And third question: Does Poland have a chance to produce a vaccine in the future? [[Applause]] Medicine! Medicine!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u472	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Szczerba, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Accommodation+. What weren't you guys supposed to produce? It just didn't work out. What did you guys do? What did you guys do? More than you. Gasport. A 50 million-dollar portal for the homeless. Mr President, if you could ask me a question, I would be very grateful. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u473	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I will not ask about ventilators, because I do not see Mr Łukasz Szumowski in the room, I have not seen him since August Ub. He's missing. Where's the hero? The fight continues, and he is already great," said the clerk of power. Great, Minister, this is a manko at the Ministry of Health, which Łukasz Szumowski left behind, PLN 70 million, and you have not recovered a single zloty from this debt so far. Ladies and gentlemen! There's one thing I'd like to clarify. In November we had a record of death, the High House probably knows this data: 66,000. Deaths. How much was in November 2019, the year before? 32,000. These are real statistics showing how you prepared us for the second wave. In November was opened one temporary hospital, hospital (the bell) at the National Stadium. Then, with Mr Ionski, we consistently said why this hospital, which, according to the Prime Minister's decision of November 3, was to have 1200 beds, 1200 patients were to be treated there, had dozens of patients. Today, the propaganda of PiS-owska... And you, Minister Niedzielski, are sponsoring this propaganda... Where's the finger? Because there's one thing I want the High House to know. This House, this room, has transferred PLN 1950 million to propaganda. But last year, at the end of the year, Minister Niedzielski signed an additional agreement with Jack Kurski, he transferred 2 million. For what? For advertising about wearing masks. That's an extra 2 million taken out of patients. Mr... There's one more thing I'd like to say. That's what Mr. Courtman did. Mr... Mr. Dworczyk additionally pays Jack Kursk for government spots about what? We're going to vaccinate ourselves. So it's not just 1950 million zlotys. They're millions of dollars... Thank you, sir. ...which are leaking. And you're multiplying that money. [[Applause]] They're corrupting.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u474	Thank you, sir. Mr Marek Rutka, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u475	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! Tychy - the kid choked on a block during the game. The lack of a free ambulance, the Air Rescue chopper could not be used due to the lack of a landing site. An intervention by the fire department was needed and it was the only way to save a child's life. Sanok, no ambulance. Air Emergency Service intervention. Since 1 March in Tarnobrzeg and the entire district of Tarnobrzeg there is not a single ambulance, which has a doctor in charge. These are only some of the cities in Poland that have recently faced the problem of the lack of free ambulances. But the ambulances didn't evaporate, they are. They're in line under hospital emergency services. Some expect the patient to receive up to 8 hours. Question: "Is the Ministry constantly monitoring the availability of ambulances in the system and what steps (the Bell) are taken when there is no free ambulance in a life-threatening situation of the state medical emergency system?" [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u476	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Paluch, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u477	Thank you very much. High Izbo! Minister! Prime Minister! We're dealing with a very severe lack of vaccines. We all see this light in the tunnel, that is, a chance to deal with the pandemic, provided there are more vaccines. But unfortunately, we're dealing with indolence, an official mite. The wrongly formulated agreement by the European Commission, which does not allow the delivery of vaccines, to which the European Union has made an important contribution. Disgraceful! Therefore, I ask what are the chances that the vaccine under the American license supported by the Polish Development Fund... When is the chance that it will be available and will significantly improve the supply? And as for the lies that fall here, dear Members of the opposition, on Monday, so to speak, you scream at the hospitals... I think it's you. ...you've been bragging about it and throwing names, I no longer need to, why public money is spent on unnecessary temporary hospitals and how many friends of the minister have earned on it, and on Friday swing left and scream at hospitals, why there are so few places in temporary hospitals... Thank you very much, Member. Thank you very much. ...and Poles need them. Thank you very much. Mrs... Gentlemen and ladies of the opposition... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] Welcome to Łódź, to Szczecin... Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u478	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Monica Rosa... Member, but you can't hear me. Mrs Monika Rosa, Parliamentary Club, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u479	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to know what recommendations you make to the government regarding further action in connection with the spread of Coronavirus. What are the limits, the changes in operation for the next few days, the next few weeks, the next few months? How do you estimate the development of the epidemic in terms of the number of diseases, the tests carried out, the occupation of beds? Do you foresee that beds, ventilators, medical personnel may simply be missing? It's a mortality issue. I ask the Minister to explain the consequences of such high mortality. WHO informs that Poland is on the 6th place when it comes to the absolute number of crowns of death, but outside the coronavirus people also die because of other diseases and this indicator is very high. Please state the reasons for such an indicator, not only last year but also at the beginning of this year. We've talked about this ten times. The Minister says oncology hasn't changed much about the coronavirus. Well, it's changed. Diagnosis of many patients is postponed or cancelled: in 2020 [[♪ The bell ♪]] compared to the previous one, a total of 40% was made less cytology and 18% Less mammography. And one last thing - vaccinations. When will vaccinations begin for persons with disabilities, their carers and independent individuals? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u480	Thank you. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u481	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Today we were discussing a bill giving nurses the right to qualify for vaccination. Such a tool, such a possibility, Minister, you should have long ago. Just as it was necessary in the summer - knowing more or less what it would be - to train the nurses in the care of ventilators to obtain anesthetic powers. Human resources problems would be smaller. In addition to the options mentioned by the Minister, we have South Africa, there's a Brazilian variant out there somewhere. There is no longer a question of whether, but when there is another variant, it may be resistant to vaccination. And while we're at it, we're racing, like, more staff to be around patients or vaccinations. This is for today. These are races with death. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But at the same time, the government wants to nationalize hospitals. One thing he doesn't hide is that it's about replacing staff with certified managers, maybe CEOs. Is this the moment when there's a health problem that's barely functioning, and it could be worse... Is this the right time for such chaotic, unknown changes... Thank you very much, sir. ...take time? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u482	Mr Tomasz Latos, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u483	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister! It's a matter of temporary hospitals. We know that 22 are running, possibly 13 more can be run. How do you assume, at what point, or at what time, the number of diseases, at which time another temporary hospital will be set up? Here's another thing. Mr Hoc has already asked this, an important thing in my opinion, the question of examining the usefulness of amantadine in therapy. It seems that on the basis of people who are permanently taking amantadine, they were taking it before the coronavirus, you can evaluate it, you can trace it quite easily, how it works, how many diseases are in this group of patients, whether there are more of them or statistically similar. We're gonna get through this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] better and accurate information. The same is true of the issue of support for immunoglobulin production. I think this is an opportunity for Poland to contribute to solving the European, global pandemic problem. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u484	Thank you very much. Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Coalition. Fame, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u485	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I came to this debate actually first of all to ask you about these planned treatments that are being postponed. The case is extremely serious. You said that when you decided to reschedule a year ago in March, we didn't protest. It was a year ago - there was no vaccine, there was no secure health system, we didn't know how this pandemic would develop. It's been a year. For a year these treatments have been stopped, and today hundreds of thousands of people, their families, their loved ones. Minister, today we have 21,000. We're in hospitals, but we've got $1,000. Hospitals, we have 50 additional hospitals. It can't be that health care doesn't exist, that patients are being sent back. Please pay attention, we discussed this, we have 3 million vaccinated with one dose, you are bragging that 1.5 million are vaccinated with two doses. We were discussing whether you were discussing whether to inoculate the prosecutors. Nobody came up with an idea, you didn't come up with an idea to inoculate people who are waiting for scheduled procedures. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We've got our health care inoculated, if we'd waited a year for the scheduled procedures, Minister, we'd have been able to do those procedures. What did these people get in return? People with cancer, people waiting for scheduled procedures have been given, Minister, the possibility of vaccination 500 km, 600 km from home. Mr... How are we supposed to believe that everything's okay, like you... Why are you lying? What are you talking about? ...to these people you're not able to arrange vaccinations? There's gonna be a day like this... Mr... ...that you will have to account for it. Don't lie to me! The fact that today all these... Mr... ... You make mistakes, unfortunately, in the future you will be burdened. The scheduled procedures... Mr... ...they must move, Minister. [[Applause]] Don't lie to me! What are you talking about? What's with the words? I'm talking about patients, and you're talking such nonsense.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u486	Mrs Karolin Pavlichak, parliamentary club of the Left. Mr... You've heard these lines off the charts, haven't you? Sir, but... No culture. Did you come from the woods? Look who's talking. Listen, ladies and gentlemen... The question is asked by Mrs Karolina Pavliczak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u487	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! At this difficult time, when everyone, and especially all health care, are fighting the third wave of pandemics, we have information that the COVID supplement is still not all paid. The first lawsuit in this case is now being brought to court. 100 percent of medical supplies were supposed to go to all those who, in their work, come into contact with the coronavirus and take risks on the first front. Why, Minister, is that what's happening? Do you have any knowledge of the scale of this phenomenon? What happened? It's a problem, unfortunately, common. Few of these, those who have received allowances, often report that it was much less money than it was directly due to the wording of the regulation. These provisions are not clear and give room for free interpretation, both on the one hand and on the other. The trade unions of doctors, nurses and other medical services stand in the position (The Bell) that it should be paid to everyone, while the NFZ speaks about the principle of proportionality. What that means, hardly anyone knows. I ask you, Minister, to tell us how you intend to resolve this very important problem and clearly define and clarify the regulation so that there are no victims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u488	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u489	Dear Marshal, Minister! The year 2020 is 485 thousand. Deaths, 2019.409 thousand. Deaths, 1946.242,000. Deaths. So many Poles paid with their lives, of course also for pandemic reasons. This is one of the most difficult periods in post-war history of Poland. Of course, some of these deaths are definitely the result of the COVID, but for a large part, and that's what I wanted to ask, is the system that stopped, which was not able to properly and in time diagnose, which was really holding back oncology procedures, are also situations that we know from the media, ambulances waiting with patients. It's been a year of pandemic. My question comes down to key things. What are you going to do with the system so that it doesn't happen again so that the system that normally heals people can heal and save them? [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's what I'm asking you to learn. What are your answers on this? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u490	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u491	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! We all know that health is the most important thing. Many county hospitals have opened up COVID branches by decision of the voivods, among others. The county hospital in Czeladź has over 100 new beds. There is a Medical Fund, which not all hospitals can use, among others. The County Hospital in Bedzin, as probably many other hospitals, can't. I would have a heartfelt request, and at the same time, I am asking a question for the Minister of Health. Is there any chance of expanding the list of beneficiaries benefiting from the so-called. A medical fund to equip and invest county hospitals? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u492	Thank you very much. Mr Konrad Frysztak, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u493	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Here is an example of the bravest minister in the Polish government, a man who found time to come to Radom one year after the outbreak. But not to look into the eyes of the director, who fought for a year at the front of the epidemic, just to establish a PiS governor, a man whom he pointed out as acting temporary hospital manager - county hospital, local government hospital. You only came here to cancel March 10th after a year, suspend, excuse me, you're about to straighten it out, suspend the director who's been handling it for a year. Why? Because, according to you and your colleagues, he didn't manage to prepare a temporary hospital. Minister, I want to explain to you that this is your colleague Jack Sasina, the Totalizator Sports, who is preparing this hospital. Ladies and gentlemen, two days later (the bell) turns out that this hospital will be dedicated. So I have a question for you: What did your man in Radom, the interim manager of Mr. Cieslik, do? He's been turning his beds for 72 hours, bringing in ventilators? Maybe he was tearing down the walls. What did he do in 72 hours that Director Pacin couldn't do? This is an outrage. What did he do? He opened the door. He opened the door. Did you hear that? After all, this is the painting, this is the purest picture of the shoes and the arrogance of this government. This man, Adam Niedzielski... Caste, caste. Mr... ...says that within 72 hours, the most important thing was opening the door. This is the PiS-ow caste. Minister, this is a shoe and arrogance. What do you think you're doing? Mr President, time is ticking. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I have a call for you, since you're so eager to sign decisions... Mr President, time is ticking. Time. Time, time. Last sentence, Mr. Marshal, please. If you're so eager to sign decisions, I have a heartfelt request for you. Go back to the ministry, sign the decision that residents are to pass a written exam this year, and they will be released from the oral exam. Let them go to work. Their place today is not in the books, their place is by the beds of patients. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u494	Time's up, thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u495	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Prime Minister, Minister! In your speech, you said that the creation of an additional $8,000 was expected in the near future. Beds. I would like to ask you about these beds: Where will we get health care, doctors, nurses, to handle these extra 8,000? Beds? Are these the ones who will be temporarily shifted from these planned procedures? The second question directly concerns Mr Glinski. Prime Minister, may I ask you a question as Minister of Sport? I take this very seriously. The summer Olympic Games in Tokyo will begin on July 23rd. Our representation is preparing, it's secured by the state. Therefore, I would very much ask that the government consider the possibility of inoculating these athletes (the bell) without stepping into the queue. These are our hopes, this is work. often 5-, 10-, 15-year-old involved in the preparations for the Olympics and the Special Olympic Games. It is therefore worth considering that this group of 500 persons should be included in the national vaccination programme, which could have and could be safely involved in this event, representing Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u496	Thank you very much. Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u497	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! The situation in the Świętokrzyskie region is really bad. In the hospital in Red Mountain, in the Voivodeship Hospital Complex in Kielce, in the hospital St. Aleksandra in Kielce or Busku-Zdrój has no seats, either free beds or free oxygen seats or free ventilators. Next week, the temporary hospital in Kielce - finally - is supposed to be empty for a few months. But in the meantime, I don't know if you know, in our region, there was just chaos in my sanctimonious region. E.g. Świętokrzyskie voivodship decided to transform the hospital in Skarżysko-Kamienna into a hospital in COVID just for 3 weeks, because it turned out that about 250 thousand. inhabitants from the area had nowhere to treat diseases other than COVID-19. Now he made such a decision in relation to the hospital in a small village in Pińczów. Inhabitants, actually, not so much the residents, as the hospital director asks for contributions from the residents, because there is nothing to buy (the bell) oxygen cameras. So the question is, Minister, in a situation where a temporary hospital in Kielce starts, you will withdraw the decision to, for example. such a small hospital as in Pińczów was a hospital that will serve residents to treat various diseases, not only COVID-19. And maybe at least you'll make a decision that makes county hospitals, small ones like that. hospital in Pińczów, will be co-financed and oxygen apparatus will not be financed by donations from residents, just from the budget, from the National Health Fund as it should be. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u498	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Uberhan, parliamentary club of the Left. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u499	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The temporary hospital at the Poznań International Fair is supposed to be one of the largest temporary hospitals. He was to accept the first infected in November last year, but by February this year he had passive, dormant status, which means he simply didn't work. It was empty, and for its maintenance, rent, security and media government Anti-Action Fund COVID-19 paid almost PLN 3 million a month. This temporary hospital is supposed to have about 600 beds, owns its own CT, oxygen tanks, cardio monitors and a large intensive care unit. According to the guidelines, he is to treat the most severe patients from all over the region. At the moment, however, only two branches operate under the contract with the NFZ in this temporary hospital, where the patients have 66 beds of these 600, including 10 anesthesiology. What about the other 534 beds? Are these stage decorations? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How much did it cost to create, and now to keep the beds that aren't there? And to what extent are these 66 existing beds used? Mercy, mercy. What is the cost of living them now? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u500	Thank you very much. Mrs Claudia Jachir, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Okay, okay, okay, okay, You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u501	Mr Kaczyński, President of the Committee. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I would like to ask about state specialization exams, more specifically: Minister, because the Prime Minister is not here. Today, the Ministry announced that they were suspended until mid-May. However, both residents and the medical community are calling not for suspension, but for the possibility to take written examinations as soon as possible, which are epidemiologically safe, exempt from oral examinations and immediately allow them to work as independent specialists. Recently, the Minister called for a delay in scheduled procedures, because there are not enough doctors, and meanwhile, for example. Already more than 200 residents in anesthesiology are after a written examination. And what do they do during the third wave of pandemics? They take vacations, they don't work and they learn the oral part. After all, these are people who have been studying for a good few years, having experience, passed a written test and are ready to work, to save [[♪ The bell ♪]] our health and our life. On behalf of the public and residents, I appeal and ask that this situation be clarified and taken into account. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u502	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u503	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There is no point in moving, which treatments are more important and which disease is more important - whether COVID or other diseases. It doesn't make any sense, it's absurd. Additional resources are needed for health care. We are in an emergency situation and we need exceptional measures. Question: "Will, in fact, when will the government carry out transfers in the state budget for health care?" Not up to 7%, just for the amount that is needed today in this phase, phase three pandemic, and it's likely to be the fourth and will be the fifth. Second question. There is currently only one pilot project in Poland on rehabilitation of health professionals. This takes place in Głuchołazy in the Opole Voivodeship. Meanwhile, the problem is so-called. long COVID and long-term effects of COVID is a major medical problem [[♪ The bell ♪]] and professionally. When will these centres be established in other voivodships? Is there gonna be an acceleration of vaccination? Great Britain has inoculated 600,000 in one weekend. persons. When will the vaccination be accelerated? I have more questions. I don't have time. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u504	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u505	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have four specific questions. First, in 2020 70,000. extracurricular deaths in Poland - first place in Europe. 43% of which - COVID, but 27% These are people who have been diagnosed with COVID before. That leaves 30%, 20,000. The people who died don't know why. Is it because you're underestimating COVID's detection or because you've so badly disorganized health care? Second question - vaccination rate. At this point, we're at less than 8%. those who received the first dose of vaccination. You guys started better. This rate is dropping right now, and it will unfortunately continue to fall. Therefore, my question is: Why didn't you buy 15 million doses of Pfizer and Moderny in December? The third question - a statement from the last term of Mrs Hrynziewicz: let them go. Well, they're gone. We don't have any doctors right now. Senator Pak's statement yesterday about the transfer of doctors from the oncology institute to COVID troops: losses must be. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Don't you feel stupid? Do you sympathize with these statements? One last question. You've talked a lot about the fact that there's a new strain of the United Kingdom virus responsible for growth. It is I who ask: How many planes in December, before Christmas, with this new variety you brought to Poland and for what? I'd like a written reply, thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u506	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u507	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister! My question is addressed to Prime Minister Morawiecki. Dear Prime Minister, on 22 February you signed a regulation under which people who work in schools, administration and staff were to be vaccinated. On 26 February, you amended this regulation and these workers are not to be vaccinated. Well, Prime Minister, I don't believe you're fighting the cleaners, I don't believe you're fighting the janitors, I don't believe you're fighting the staff. But I believe someone is putting your office in jeopardy, Prime Minister. Someone is putting us, Poles, at risk of ridicule. There is a regulation of the Council of Ministers which treats this once and for the second time treats it differently within 4 days. I appeal to you, Prime Minister: I know that prosecutors have an excellent defender in the government, but administration and school service. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He has defenders in us, and we as the Left Club will protest against it. We urge you, ladies and gentlemen of the PiS Club to support us in this matter. It's not too complicated. That's 150,000. People. You don't believe because you don't believe. Mr President, take this call with us to the Prime Minister. Who gives and receives - you know. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] You're an unbeliever. What can you believe?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u508	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Łącki, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u509	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 5.2 in Poland, 5.4 in Europe - there are 1 000 nurses. residents. 2.4 in Poland, 3.6 in Europe - there are 1 000 doctors. residents. Mr. Messenger, small numbers, right? It's bigger now. 70,000. Deaths last year, more than normal. 50,000. Doctors missing from the system. This is a picture of health care under your rule. And in your day? Maybe we need to get back to the idea of Mrs... Ligocka? The one with the middle finger. Maybe we need to get back to her idea and get the doctors back from the Germans. Maybe you can do it. You managed to open the door for doctors from the East - one good one. You're out of control. Even circles close to you are talking about substantive chaos. Even the COVID supplement regulation did not write well, because it is interpreted so that in some hospitals they pay COVID supplements, and in other hospitals the same doctors do not pay these supplements. You've been up all summer. [[♪ The bell ♪]] on the fight for stools and making a campaign for the first skier of the Republic. [[Applause]] You didn't do anything, and now you're stopping the planned procedures. My question. Just now, Minister, you were here and you said that the COVID troops, I'm sorry, the oncology troops don't have to give up beds for the COVID troops. Minister, you've already told the professor about the beds... Professor Religa. ... Religa. He said what beds could be done. We don't ask about beds. I have one question: Will the oncology and children's troops have to hand over the staff to the COVID hospitals? Finish your work. Do you want people and children from oncology troops to be tormented? Thank you. [[Applause]] Enough of this populism.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u510	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Krutul from the parliamentary club of the Left. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u511	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Not a big turnout for such a serious case on the right side of the room. Because there's no serious discussion. That's your opinion. I don't have to agree with him. Mr. Minister of Health! We have more and more deaths, but let us not forget entrepreneurs. I'm an entrepreneur myself with a 20-year internship. Gastronomy, hotels don't have an idea, they don't know what to do. Nearly a year of gastronomy is closed. You could introduce them gardens, and the aura will allow them to. Nearly a year they are closed and simply the interests of these people, often generational, die. We need to do something about this together to unblock this industry somehow. Do you have any idea? Because they don't know how to take off. Even if they are now open at 50%, just like hotelers, the voivodships are closed. I'm asking for an answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u512	Thank you very much. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u513	High Seym! Mr. Marshal! Minister! I wanted to ask the Minister when he was going to announce his plan, his assumptions for the hospital reform, and more specifically for the office and centralization of those hospitals. This secret band was to prepare a secret study by the end of February. Minister Kraska supposedly announced that it would be made public and subject to consultation this month. We're looking forward to it. It's their madness. I ask this in the name of frightened Poles and Poles from the county Poland, terrified raciborzanka and raciborzan, zwysławianka and zwysławan, who fear that the administration and centralization of their district hospitals, to which they have made a huge contribution, will cause their access to health care and to help not only as a result of putting off these planned procedures, but also as a result of such centralization. There's nothing worse in this situation, [[♪ The bell ♪]] How to do pseudoreform. We just know why she's doing it. This is a cashier's heist. You're announcing this money heist in the reconstruction program. With this European money, i.e. 1,400 million euros, you intend to pay for all vaccines, European vaccines, from this bad Europe, for this bad European money, and the rest of the money, among others. Almost EUR 1 billion, you intend to distribute to these centralized hospitals after being considered, as you have done many times. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u514	Thank you very much. Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u515	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In this room there is much talk about family, Szumowski family, Ziobrów, Obajtków, Cymanski and Emilewiczów. Sawickie. So I'm gonna ask about my family, about my mom. My mom is 75 years old, and her health is rather poor. My mom wasn't vaccinated. He can't even ask for an approximate period of vaccination to indicate any time perspective. My mom doesn't see kids and grandkids, but she sees smiling pensioners on public television who thank the government for a smooth vaccination. My mom's not in uniform, she's not an employee who works after vaccinations still remotely. My mother cannot visit any cultural institution that worked in the sanitary regime, but she can go to church because churches do not apply to this regime, and protesters are called upon to interrogate the curia. My mom knows you're not worried about her as much as you wouldn't worry about her. [[♪ The bell ♪]] About my dead father, who was diabetic. They, as it turned out, were less important, as were others, for whom COVID is practically a death sentence. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u516	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Is there a Member? There isn't. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Parliamentary Club Left. There it is. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u517	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Access to health care, to planned treatments, to the appointment of a doctor of first contact, to the appointment of a specialist doctor is one of the basic rights. The right to health protection is enshrined directly in the Constitution and the exercise of this right, especially now, during a pandemic, depends on health and often our lives and our loved ones. Hence a few questions about patients' access to a visit to a clinic or a home visit, not just a teleport: How many patients refused this right? Specialists do not visit patients in their homes despite running offices within POZ. I personally photographed my sick grandmother, and based on the pictures taken by phone, the surgeon made his recommendations. He didn't go home, he didn't visit a patient. Second thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What are the vaccination records for 989? I'm getting signals that even though I'm getting a call and I'm putting an older person on the waiting list, they're not getting any information about the date of vaccination. Finally, the third question is: Is the Ministry aware of the abuses that occur during the pandemic and what are experienced by medical personnel? Nurses and midwives from the Institute of the Centre for Health of the Polish Mother in Łódź were directed to work with patients from COVID, even though it is not staff headed by the voivode to prevent and fight COVID-19. If the Minister doesn't want to answer these questions today in the Chamber, I will ask for a written reply. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u518	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Olichwer, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u519	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! In recent days, a group of more than 100 Members have signed a hearing with the President of the Council of Ministers on a new technology enabling the faster testing of people at risk of SARS CoV-2 infection. Namely, the global innovation is the COVID Detector, which allows an instant evaluation of a sample of breathed air taken from a person in real time anywhere and within seconds. This Polish invention was presented with the participation of President Andrzej Duda during one of the press conferences. The President announced that the system of innovative testing is a real revolution. As the pandemic is accelerating rapidly, I would like to ask the Minister of Health, because he did not mention this in his speech, at what stage of work and when and whether this innovative method will enter into force at all. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and will be available to all Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u520	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u521	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When we turn on PiS TV, there is only success in the fight against COVID. Let me remind you that these successes are also realized with 2 billion, which instead of oncology, you have allocated to the fight to propaganda. You're repeating yourselves. What's the real situation? It's $70,000. deaths more year by year. But when the Minister showed up here, he also said he was surprised, because at the moment we see that the British option covers nearly 60%. patients in Poland. So who in the government of law and justice is responsible for strategic action? After all, in December you knew that our countrymen, who are coming for Christmas, could bring this variant. You didn't do anything then. A lot more people arrived, extra planes arrived, transported our countrymen, but you didn't do any research, you didn't do anything, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And you're still surprised at the moment? And what will the consequences be? Thousands more deaths. Start acting, start thinking strategically, don't be constantly surprised. You've been surprised for over a year. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u522	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Grammar, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u523	Dear Marshal, Minister! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I am often moved to listen to Minister Dworczyk on government television, who is delighted by the system of vaccinations here and there. Polish TV. PiS TV. We're better than Germany, as I read last time. I've been fighting this genius system for Mrs. Wanda's health and life for a few days now, living in Kędzierzyn-Koźla, 1948. In January, as part of the action, she was enrolled for vaccination. The vaccination site was set up in Opole, just 60 km away, and you were lucky. The vaccination deadline is mid-March. Several attempts have been made to change the vaccination site, unfortunately unsuccessfully. In February - surprise, Mrs. Wanda from your fantastic system gets a text message with a renewed incentive to register. What happened to the previous registration - you don't know. Today, March 16th, Mrs. Wanda is still not vaccinated. There is no possibility of adding, no possibility of setting a new deadline. You'd help Mrs. Wanda. Nobody knows anything. We're all bounced off the wall. Nobody's responsible for anything. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And there are hundreds of people like that. 70+, 80+ - these are people for whom there were no deadlines in January. Who remembers them today? Certainly not Minister Dworczyk, certainly not Minister, certainly not your brilliant system and certainly not government television. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u524	Thank you. Mrs Magdalena Łośko, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u525	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On 8 March, the National Health Fund recommended limiting or temporarily suspending the provision of planned treatments. However, in response to one of the interpellations of a group of Members, including mine, the Ministry of Health informed that any evidence of irregularities or limitation of the availability of health services is clarified and procedures are put in place to reduce the number of such situations to a minimum. Does the Minister see the contradiction of these messages? Does the Minister also see the danger that another delay in the time limits for the provision of health services will result in another dramatic increase in mortality? During the previous point, the Deputy Minister of Health said that the qualifications that the fitters possess are sufficient to enable them to support health care and carry out patient studies. I have a question: Does the Ministry know how many professional rimpers we have in Poland? [[♪ The bell ♪]] 30. Well, I'm going to say, it's as much as one professional felcher who got his privileges in 1958. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u526	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Jaros, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u527	Dear Marshal, Minister! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Recently, the National Health Fund has announced that, in connection with the development of the epidemic at the request of the Health Minister, the NFZ Centre recommends limiting the necessary temporary suspension of the provision of services on a scheduled basis to the minimum necessary. So I have a few questions. Why do people who have been waiting for months or even years for a treatment that affects their life and health have to accept the change of this term because of their inability, unfortunately, to the government? Has the government taken into account the use of solutions other than limiting pre-planned health care services in order to secure an adequate number of beds for patients infected with SARS-CoV-2? If yes, please indicate them if not, please justify your position. What is the position of specialists in reducing pre-planned health benefits? Next. It is indicated that, in any event, the deferral of the duration of the benefit should be assessed individually and the condition of the patient's health risk and the likelihood of deterioration and potential effects should be taken into account. Who will be responsible for the incorrect classification? And one more thing, Minister. This applies to a temporary hospital in Wroclaw. Do you know what the Minister is doing? [[♪ The bell ♪]] the fact that this hospital is much more expensive than any other temporary hospital in Poland? Are you aware of that? Are you able to check those expenses that have been incurred, because we believe that these expenses are simply too high and there may have been some, I would say, irregularities in making this decision? Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u528	Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u529	Minister! Whether, in view of the growing third wave, county hospitals will be converted to COVID to right and left, as was the case in October and November Ub. R.? This is what Adrian Czubak was doing in Opole. For example, for Namysłowski's hospital it ended very badly - 5 million losses, 4 million overeating a pre-financing contract, almost completely flushed out of the medical staff. The question is, what is the NFZ gonna do with these advances if it's still gonna be hard to perform the contract because the scheduled procedures are gonna be postponed? This is a very important matter. And one more key question. What other restrictions, sharpenings make sense in relation to the share of 50% a British variant of a virus that can be infected by a contact that literally lasts a few minutes? [[♪ The bell ♪]] This needs to be made clear to people, because it is only now that you are introducing a very important thing that everyone can decide about their own research. Please consider whether it is possible that people will have their own swabs at their disposal and will swab themselves so that someone who is not infected can take them to a place where the examination will be carried out. It's a very specific thing. Because you, Minister, know very well that now the only effective Now the method is self-elimination from the life of an infected person. Thank you, sir. It's a crucial, important thing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u530	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Hartwich, Civic Coalition. You're welcome. Nobel's waiting for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u531	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I recently received another invitation for vaccination in Łódź on March 31st. From Torun to Łódź is not far away. I'm not gonna use it because it's not my turn, and first of all I'm never gonna inoculate myself in front of my disabled son. Mrs. Malag is no longer here, but I believe he's listening. So, after all, I would like to ask Minister Maląg why you, as Minister, are not asking for vaccinations for people with disabilities and their carers who have been locked in their homes for months. You know that very well. I also have a second question for Minister Niedzielski. Minister, can you make a man-made decision on vaccinations for disabled people and their carers, the weakest, the weakest of the countrymen and actually have [[♪ The bell ♪]] A little decency? Do you really want to see our disabled children in coffins? And the thing we really need to remember is to take care of the weakest. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u532	Thank you very much. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u533	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There are no vaccines in Poland. That's what everyone was talking about in the Seym today. All over Europe is missing. There's a chance. The United States is ready to share vaccines with other countries. President Biden has announced that he has already spoken to several countries. Please calm the Poles, please tell them that Poland has also asked the United States for help in this matter. I mean, Duda's gonna take care of it. Since we are with vaccines, it must be said that patients live in Poland after surgery to cut out the lobe or part of the lung lobe. This is a relatively small group of people, but this group has not been included among those who have priority in accessing vaccines. Meanwhile, infection caused by COVID, attacking lungs is for this group almost [[♪ The bell ♪]] Always death. Only some of the temporary hospitals have admitted patients. Please tell me how much it costs to keep hospitals that haven't admitted patients so far. In Łódź such a hospital was created for 19 million, over 19 million. The monthly cost of keeping this hospital is 1,200 grand. But this is one hospital. How many millions are lost because these hospitals don't work yet? [[Applause]] And how much does human life cost? Smart guy, smart guy.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u534	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u535	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! From the most recent media information we learn that the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivode has addressed a call to doctors to come to work in designated COVID hospitals. In view of the next wave of pandemics and the lack of staff in hospitals, it could be said that this was the right decision. However, there are a few but, namely, in this group there are mainly doctors dealing with patients in POZs and those who should be excluded from referring to work presenting a risk of infection, among others. mothers on maternity leave, nursing women, babysitting until they're 14. These referrals were not consulted with them, and the voivode did not check the situation of the paramedics. Those doctors didn't know how they could appeal against the voivodship's decisions either. In the POZs, it's growing... The bill's talking about it. ...number of patients. There'll be no one to treat them in a minute. So what does it look like today? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Security of COVID hospitals in medical personnel in the country, in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship? Shouldn't the voivodship, directing the doctor to the hospital, check whether the physician is exempt from the obligation to go to work in accordance with the Act of 5 December 2008? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u536	Thank you very much. Mr Rajmund Miller, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u537	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Minister, maybe you can answer a question your predecessor couldn't or wouldn't answer. In March Ub. Mr. Prime Minister and the high notable PiS advertised at the arrival of the world's largest aircraft from China, which brought 22 million masks without certificates. I am a doctor, I am Vice-President of the Health Committee and I am aware of what masks mean without a certificate, both for medical staff and for ordinary citizens. That's why I'm asking. Because Deputy Minister Cieszyński, who is no longer here, answered me today that this is classified information. I didn't ask about the rockets, I didn't ask about the planes, I didn't ask about the submarines and plans for the war, [[Applause]] I was just asking about things that mattered to the citizens. And it's your duty to tell the Poles what you did with those masks. What happened to them? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]] And the second thing, if you don't mind, Mr... extend the case... No! You can't. Minister, unfortunately, you have underestimated the participation of the auxiliary staff, the people who worked with patients infected with COVID, with the chamber workers, with the technical staff. This group is feeling very hurt today. These people were exposed to COVID the same way, but you fooled them, they didn't get those additives until today. I'm asking for this, and I'm asking you not to forget about this group of people who work equally hard in hospitals in contact with COVID. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u538	Thank you very much. Please, Minister of Health of Mr Adam Niedzielski. Minister, come in. Actually, I'm inviting you. I should say. Well, it's not clear if it's invited or invited. And you just sit there and comment. If you wanted to go home, maybe you could stop commenting all the time... I'm helping. ...because it doesn't make sense, sir, really. And vice versa. You're welcome, Minister. I apologize for the fact that Mr PiS continues to comment. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u539	Mr. Marshal! And how much time do I have for these answers, if I may ask? No restrictions. Sir, reasonable, yes, we are reasonable people. There you go. Ladies and gentlemen! With great interest and attention, I hope you saw this too, I listened to all the questions, all the comments. Of course, I realise that the plenary sitting of the Sejm is also always an opportunity to make public and show my views, so I understand that some of the declarations and words I have heard here are due to these reasons. Nevertheless, I think that there are a lot of topics that I would like to address, so that it is in such a patient way to translate, explain and explain various informational inaccuracies, various overtones, and in some cases I think that these are mere manipulations. I would like to start with the PES exam, which is a state specialized exam, which some of you have given their speeches, indicating that the decision we made yesterday at the Ministry of Health in the management group, and today has been published, is an unreasonable decision. Well, I think that this is an extremely pragmatic decision and on top of that it is based on a very thorough analysis of the situation. Because we've gone through some trouble to get all the PESELs who take this exam to verify whether they've actually vaccinated themselves. And it turned out that over 80%, almost 85% people who are preparing for this exam are vaccinated. So from the point of view of ensuring a certain safety claim, there's no risk that this exam, unlike the previous sessions, when the oral exams were cancelled because there was a risk of infection... Now that risk is practically gone in this group. That's why we thought there was absolutely no reason to cancel the oral exam, which is the second part of the specialized exam. Of course, we know what the situation is, we know that the need for a hand for work is enormous, so we made the decision to move the possibility of passing this exam to a May term. They won't have to study again. Mayan. So those who have not passed this exam will have the opportunity to pass it on May. We set an exact deadline after May 17th. Everyone will be able to take the exam later, when, I hope, the third wave will fall, just prepare and pass it in the usual mode. Of course, those who have already passed the written exam will be able to pass the oral examination. I have asked all national consultants for opinions, consultants who participate in the organisation of these exams. Oral examinations should be carried out within a period of up to 2 weeks of written examinations so as not to actually absorb in the extended window the teaching of those who can help in the system. That's the decision we made. I would like to say that at first glance it might seem that this is a subject that is very difficult to politicize, but it turns out that practice is completely different. Even from such a subject, from the subject of passing the exam, which for many, many years has been conducted in a two-part convention - the written part and the oral part - one can make a political subject. I would like to make it very clear to you that the position of all national consultants on the oral examination - all with one exception - was that the oral examination should absolutely be carried out. There are possibilities because most people who pass are prepared for it when it comes to vaccination. This applies to both passers-by and test subjects. Roaring. There was information here that hospitals would soon be forced to pay (the bell) the funds that, within the framework of 1/12, were transferred as part of the lump sum payments to the clinics, clinics and other medicinal entities. First of all, I wanted to point out that we designed a financing system in the age of COVID that no medical facility or hospital had any liquidity problem. In fact, the funds were transferred regardless of the level of performance of the contracts, the fulfilment of the obligations committed by the entities in the contracts. Of course, we understand as a government that the situation is special, which is why such an instrument has been created. This instrument was created much earlier before we talked about any shield for the economy. These were some of the first decisions we made with Prime Minister Morawiecki. The idea was to secure the financial functioning of these units. Indeed, the clearance of contracts and lump sums was planned by mid-year. In principle, all the obligations that are on the part of the healthcare provider in terms of the number of treatments carried out should be made after the advance payment, but we have also made a decision, seeing that there is no possibility of a proverbial recovery to postpone the settlement deadline at least at the end of 2021. He wants to reassure all countries and all countries who are watching us that there is no threat to the financial stability of medicinal entities this year. The solutions we are adopting may seem irrational from a financial point of view, but security is our priority. [[Applause]] I say this to you as Minister of Health, who is an economist and who knows that counting... the priority must be to secure health needs in the form of a response to the crisis. That's exactly what we're doing. We're not exactly counting the money right now. Oncology. Many times there have been allegations that the fight against COVID will be at the expense of oncology. I absolutely want to say that this is manipulation. Systemically speaking, oncology is a really green island - there are no hints to create COVID troops there that would support non-oncology patients. Of course, in several hospitals, such mini branches of COVID were created, but for oncology patients. These patients must be provided with continued treatment. If they have COVID, they must be protected from the COVID side, but under appropriate conditions and with protection that takes into account the specifics of oncology treatment. So at this angle... It is also worth saying that our oncology expenditures are steadily increasing. I'm not talking about comparing budgets year by year, I'm talking about the fact that in the situation where we're in, we've adopted a solution that says that all cancer centers will get an additional 3%. financing for the protection of personal protective equipment. It's very important. Comprehensive centres, i.e. those that have a large catalogue of services, will receive an additional 3%. Only for COVID reasons have we increased the financing of oncology by nearly 6%. Another issue is the posting of doctors. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been allergic to voivodships to respect all rights, especially the rights of mothers of young children, when they are posted. The laws we've built secure those rights. I must make it clear that the voivods were asked both by the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration to first ask the District Medical Chambers to identify potential persons for referral. Unfortunately, in most cases, this was not indicated by the District Medical Chambers. Therefore, the voivods had to make decisions, but I stress that they were always taken only after consultation, after exchanging certain information with the district medical chambers. The subject of ventilators. Here I'll look towards both gentlemen. We are currently in such a situation that the funds that have been secured from the contract performed by E&K are frozen funds for the Treasury by the bailiff, and this is a large amount of money. And since this money does not fully satisfy the needs of the State Treasury or this claim by the State Treasury, it has been decided to seize these ventilators. They are already actually occupied by the bailiff, inventory and secured. This is a process that's going on. Who valued it? These aren't things that happen, gentlemen, overnight. That's why calmly, as the legal procedure requires... It's also a bailiff's errand. The person who is subject to it shall have the right to appeal to the court and shall exercise that right in an obvious manner. That's why it's not like we can get it back from week to week. The bidding's gonna be on. But the process is already so advanced that the assets and funds have been secured. So this is really just a perspective of time. But the money hasn't come back yet. Ladies and gentlemen! Another issue, Radom, which was raised here by one of your fellow Members. Well, as I said, in Radom good will was needed in terms of cooperation, which was simply not yet available. Yeah, you gotta tell yourself that. We had a situation where the hospital was delayed in setting up a temporary hospital. The equipment was delivered there by a company of the State Treasury. That's a lie! There's beds, there's equipment. Even as part of the parliamentary review, this has been confirmed. You should have started recruiting the staff. Were you there for inspection? This staff has been recruited, or at least has begun to be recruited by a new proxy. But the hospital wasn't ready. What's more, he's recruited from this team who works at the city hospital. This mouthpiece is not for lying, Minister. Mr. Marshal, is this how it's supposed to be? May I ask you not to disturb me, sir? On one condition... Sir, there's a Marshal of the Seym. Don't make the terms, listen to the Minister, and then you can come to the Minister and talk to him. You're welcome. Please, Minister. With the evidence. That goes for you, too. In conclusion, we are planning that this temporary hospital will start receiving patients around March 20th. Turns out there wasn't much to do for this hospital to function. What did the principal do? Tell me. I'm warning you again. Post-COVID rehabilitation... Excuse me, Minister. Can you listen to me? Do you think your intervention is helping anything? I was asking a specific question. Sir, you've already asked that question. If you ask the Minister, the Ministry may give you an additional reply in writing, but it is time. 22. Take it easy, sir. You're welcome, Minister. Of course I declare, Marshal, that we will answer all the questions that will be asked in writing. This also applies to the Member's comments. As far as post-COVID rehabilitation is concerned, we actually have one center in Głucho3azy, which, on the basis of piloting, leads to such rehabilitation, but we want to bet on a much more mass solution here. We have prepared a game that will be implemented directly through rehabilitators, which has also been developed with the National Chamber of Physiotherapists. Its aim is to provide the possibility of such basic rehabilitation, which aims to improve overall health, but above all to improve respiratory capacity. I hope it can be activated in the near future, but these decisions are also conditioned by the pandemic situation. I will not decide to launch any additional medical services for Poles in a situation where all resources must be devoted to the fight against COVID. I'm not really scaring you, but the prospect that awaits us is going to be a difficult perspective, and we certainly won't have the comfort to run new catalogs of medical services. Many of your questions were about defrosting. Here, among others. There was talk of gardens. It is difficult to discuss this in this situation, all the more so since we have had a decisive acceleration of the pandemic wave for two days. So let me not comment on the exact dates. But I want to say one thing: this period between December and this time in which we are now, we have shown that we are willing to make bolder decisions because we are aware that some people have already passed the COVID, so it has antibodies, it is safer. We've got advanced vaccinations. She is indeed advanced on a European scale. I'd even say he's putting us in a good position. So in this window that we had, we did some loosening of the sharpenings, and it seems that what we could do as much as we could, we did. Now, unfortunately, we have to get out of this. Amantadine - this is a subject that appears in many speeches, but my job as Minister of Health is to ensure that the medical safety of Poles is also guaranteed. As long as I do not have confirmed studies - it concerns vaccines, it concerns medicines - I will not allow the preparation to control the disease if I have no evidence of it. Since the evidence from amantadine is still not in international literature, I asked our Medical Research Agency to carry out such a study. Such a multi-centre study is conducted in Poland, but it is also fair to say that it is not again a study, whose results will be carried out in a week or in a month, only this is a study that must continue, because it needs to examine the appropriate population of patients, compare the effects of amantadine, versus e.g. Placebo effect. It's not something that can happen overnight. I would also like to mention the issue of the transfer of 2 million public television, as one of your fellow Members has said. Well, yes, we did pass it on to the advertising of masks, because we think that this is a very important safeguard of the health and safety of Poles. I would like to say that we have not discriminated against the various televisions, Mr President. All TVs received orders from the Minister of Health to issue such material, because we are convinced that it is material that can contribute to the improvement of state security. I am at your disposal if you need to present documents showing it is that these are measures which have been transferred in proportion to other stations as part of this. COVID additives. You report different cases when they are not paid. Indeed, we have decided to pay medical staff, but the solution for COVID allowances is a situation where we want to reform and change the pay system of medical staff. Right now, we're negotiating whether or not we're talking to all the environments. Of course, we have these discussions within the Tripartite Committee and the Special Team, which is dedicated to health care. There, I hope, we will work out a solution that will show not only pay here and now, but also a path to developing medical staff salaries for the next 4 or 5 years, so that this topic will no longer be an exciting and exciting topic. It seems to me that this is one of the fundamental problems that the solution is necessary in order to talk in peace about reforming the healthcare system. I agree with you that this system needs to be reformed. This system needs to be changed. Another issue that has been raised, namely the issue of hospital reform. Yeah, we're analyzing different options. I will present these options publicly, probably at the beginning of April, but of course no one will start this reform in the situation we are in right now. These options, which we are analysing, are not limited only to this option that you are talking about, i.e. to the full acquisition of ownership. There are other options, and all of these options will be subject to public debate, so that no one is waiting for the evil Minister of Health, who drives around the counties and receives hospitals. I also want to reassure you that there are no such temptations. Finally, a summary of this is the strategy we have developed for the development of the healthcare system. This strategy has been prepared in response to the expectations of the European Commission, which requires such a document from us when allocating funds. This document has indeed not been in the past, at least in so far as the European Commission has been expecting it. This document is already publicly available. We'll consult him later. He will be held as a government resolution. I hope that it will also be severely criticised as usual, but we have a coherent plan for the healthcare system. I hope that he, too, will be discussed here in the plenary room. Another thing is the limitation of scheduled procedures. In my speech, I devoted a part to explaining these issues, but I understand that some of the statements rather than the questions that were made were meant to... She didn't take it into account, she was prepared before, she didn't take into account the information I provided. I want to make it very clear that there are some checks being carried out. The NFZ in terms of whether or not there were planned procedures is false information. It's manipulation, there's absolutely no such thing. I was the President of the National Health Fund before the Ministry of Health took over the portfolio, and since the beginning of these recommendations there have been no controls in this area. This is just fake news, and I'm sure fake news is saying that there have been some administrative decisions, because no administrative decisions seem to be made in this regard. Vaccinations. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to vaccinations, we are conditioned primarily by deliveries. This can be mantrated and repeated to be bored, but simply if we do not have these vaccines to an increased extent declared by supply producers, we are not able to set new deadlines or additional deadlines, which, for example. groups of chronically ill, other chronicly ill, would be proposed. We continue to engage with Minister Dworczyk on this subject in dialogue with very different environments. Besides, I think you can see clearly that we are redefining these plans, that people who are chronically ill have become so-called. group Ib. Now we are still debating diabetes and looking at all the arguments, both the pros and the cons, because please remember that priority or priority group cannot consist of 10 million people, because this is how we originally defined people with chronic diseases in Group II. Putting 10 million into the group is not a priority. Temporary hospitals. I won't repeat myself, but I think it was a good strategic decision to build them to prepare them in the context of the third wave. I do not want to enter into political discussions, who, when, what he said, even though the workers have prepared me a list of statements from various Members who have denied this idea. I don't want to use the forum to start a discussion like this. In general, temporary hospitals will be systematically opened. The problem, of course, is staff. This is the main problem that shows that you can't increase this infrastructure forever, because hospitals have to serve. These hospitals will be systematically opened. 22 are already functioning, 3 are in the process of launching, 10 are probably still inactive, here I look at Minister Kraska, it seems that 10 have not yet activated. Decisions are made in agreement with a voivode who knows the local epidemic situation because it has its crisis management teams. These discussions result from our consent or our lack of consent, but in general we are mostly in favour of the proposals submitted by the voivodships. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you so much for these questions. I declare, of course, a written reply to those questions that have not been answered. I would ask you to pass this on through the traditional channels. Of course, I'm at your disposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal, in correction mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u540	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. There's no name. But Radom died. Fortunately, Mr Radom hasn't died yet. Here you go, in corrigendum mode, but one minute, no longer, or I'll turn my voice off.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u541	Minister! I'm sorry to say that you have used many lies on this platform. Please. First of all, no additional doctor has been hired yet. It was Director Marek Pacin who hired doctors. Secondly, you didn't show up for yesterday's city council session because, I assume, you wouldn't be able to defend that decision. You didn't answer the question about what was done in 72 hours. I would like to make it clear to you that it was the Sports Totalizator who passed on the decision to the performer last Friday that the hospital is ready. Nothing in particular has been done in these three days. This is another example of shoes and arrogance, ladies and gentlemen. The Prime Minister of the Polish Government turns away from a Member who talks about specifics. It's not the first time. You'll fall sooner or later and all your lies will come out. Thank you. [[Applause]] Marshal, please instruct the Minister that we have declared the answers we want in writing. Minister Niedzielski, I'm talking to you. All of them. No, because you said we were supposed to write specifically to get you to answer. We said, in the courtroom I reported that I wanted a written reply, and I'm asking for a written reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u542	Minister, I think we will agree that those questions that have been raised will be answered in writing by your ministry, which you have not answered, and everyone will be satisfied. Yeah, well, speaking of... I was hoping we could get a protocol from which... You'll get the protocol, of course, no problem at all. Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm accept the information of the President of the Council of Ministers... Gentlemen, that's not gonna happen. Prime Minister, really listen to the end, I am very cordially asking you to do so. I'm trying to make sense of it. You're very kind. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm accept the information of the President of the Council of Ministers on the current situation in the health service and the possibility of providing health services planned in advance. If I don't hear any objection... Objection. There was an objection in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on the proposal in the voting block. Thank you very much. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 16 March. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Please, Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Parliamentary Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u543	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposal for a ban on adoption for people who remain in single-sex unions is another attack on the LGBT community, which assumes an environment of Solidarna Polska which is part of the ruling camp of the United Right. From a legal point of view, it is obvious that it is already impossible to adopt children by people in a single-sex relationship, also because in Poland it is not possible to recognise marriages of such couples, and only spouses can adopt together. The United Right, however, is not about the legal effect, but about the political capital of the conflict with the European Union, which responds to the deepening discrimination and persecution of LGBT people in Poland. It is vile enough to practice politics against a group of people, but it has even more serious and deeper consequences. First of all, the proposal for such a law is another stage of persecution experienced by LGBT people in our country. Right-wing politicians do not hide that it is a blow directed at a particular group of people, and it is a preventive blow, which also forbids something that even now is not legally acceptable. Such a move cannot be taken apart from the transition to verbal violence and physical violence that the right-wing environment has been applying to LGBT people for years, to a new form of institutional violence. It is also important that we see that violence, which finds its place in legal institutions, ceases to be an irregularity and becomes a method. It ceases to be an exception and becomes a rule that retains its validity regardless of who it is directed against and against. The agreement to legitimize legal violence makes it a way to regulate social life, and since it is possible to force the rights of LGBT people, it is possible for other groups of people to. It is therefore possible to use violence to designate a secondary place in society for women, immigrants, persons with other than the political views desired by the authorities, persons with another religion or persons who do not identify with any religion, persons with different ethnic backgrounds. Violence once entered into legal order is a ready-made blade that can be directed at any time to those of these or other undesirable causes. Violence, which is rooted in the legal system, is also a foundation and a motor for even greater eruption of verbal and physical violence. Hate written in the language of the Act will echo on Polish streets, will be hurt, pain and often blood, as examples in our social life are already seen. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We must be clear about such temptations, clearly now that they are taking further steps on the path of vileness, violence and authoritarianism, before they enter our lives deep enough to make it harder to get rid of them. We must resist the people who want to violate our thresholds and decide who we can love, who we can live with and who we can call family. Today there is no difference whether we are LGBT individuals, their allies, or we are indifferent to them, because we must stand up against violence and authoritarianism, which threatens our freedom and our family. It is the right-wing politicians who present the greatest threat to the family today, engaging it in their political games. It is right-wing politicians who do the most harm to children and parents today, turning their good into their fingers and giving them in exchange for their political benefits. It is the politicians of the right hand, their hatred and unsatisfied rule that we must set up a dam today. So today I call on all people who are at the heart of the good of the Polish family and Polish society not to underestimate the threat of government ideas, but to reject them as firmly and unanimously as possible today, to show that there is no room in our country for accepting violence, hatred and discrimination as a legal tool. Not today, not tomorrow, not ever. Never again. [[Applause]] I can't marry a whale.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u544	Thank you very much. Mr President, no one forbids you from marrying a whale. I just can't marry a whale. This is violence. I wish you that your dreams will come true someday, sir. Mr Krzysztof Tuduj, near the Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u545	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to draw attention to the problem of digital security of Members of the Clearest Republic of Poland. The two security incidents we've been dealing with recently led me to this subject. The first one was the Vice-President of the Committee on Special Services. It's about breaking and entering, the famous break-in into social media accounts with all kinds of excesses. The other is a messenger of the opposition who left her unprotected MP iPad with her phone and went on the train, I assume, not among friends, but among strangers, to the toilet. These two examples show, to put it mildly, the average awareness of this digital environment. You can't be surprised. Members are people who specialize in various things, are at different ages, not everyone is a specialist in this space, but the seriousness of the state, the seriousness of the House, the seriousness of the issues that Members are dealing with requires that this level of security be ensured. It seems that the Internal Security Agency or the State Security Service should take care of this, maybe the Sejm Office, that is, training, training Members, demonstrating the risks, the risks. Unfortunately, we are not dealing with such a situation as to keep someone busy enough to take care of it. On the other hand, as is sometimes the case, with the help of a private company, the portal Danger. pl, which in response to these incidents has prepared training for Members, free training which it makes available on its websites through its channels. It is enough for the Member to come forward and receive professional training. I volunteered. On the second day, I actually received a number of professional information to rewrite it myself. Ladies and gentlemen! I close this thread with an appeal and ask the honourable Members to take this opportunity and to train themselves on their own. If we are to seriously think about the digital sovereignty of our country, if we are to seriously think about the digital security of our country, then we should be an example in this matter and just be aware of it. So that's what I'm calling for. I also appeal here, I think (the bell), to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration to think that the Members of the next term of office should not have to use the training offered during or in response to security incidents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u546	Thank you. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u547	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I asked Minister Gliński for urgent intervention in the case of the historic Silver Mine in Tarnowskie Góry, which is threatened with bankruptcy if he does not receive any support in the near future. So far Minister Gliński has not responded. It is worth recalling that in Poland there are only 16 objects listed on the UNESCO World Heritage List. Among them is a historic silver mine in Tarnowskie Góra and other mining facilities in neighbouring villages. The facility is run by enthusiasts associated with the Tarno Góra Land Lovers Association. It is outrageous that this institution has not yet received the means by which it could function efficiently and without fear of its future. The whole complex is maintained exclusively from the sale of entry tickets. The tightenings in force over many months have led to the end of the financial strength of the operator of the tourist facilities. The monthly cost of their operation is 200,000. zł. So far, expenditure has been covered by the savings made by the institution. They were intended for the necessary investments to keep it on the prestigious UNESCO World Heritage List. So far, despite repeated requests, the institution has received no tangible support from the Ministry, which you are running, the Minister of Gliński, which is saddening and disturbing to me. The lack of support may result in bankruptcy, the need to fire workers and the removal from such a prestigious UNESCO entry. The Ministry of Culture and National Heritage should address and allocate the necessary resources as soon as possible due to its name and mission. So I wrote a bill. If it were accepted, the Silver Mine in Tarnowskie Góry would be included in the list of state-funded facilities. It's really a simple and necessary bill. I'm counting on the Sejm's speedy conversion and adoption of this bill. I strongly appeal to Members of Parliament and Members over political divisions to support the Tarno Góra pearl of industrial tourism, because it would be a great loss if, due to lack of goodwill, the object so eagerly visited by guests from abroad went bankrupt and disappeared from the tourist map of Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u548	Thank you very much. Mrs Beata Arrow, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u549	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! From 1 January this year. Under the Regulation of the Council of Ministers of 31 July 2020 on the establishment of the borders of certain municipalities and cities, the status of a town has been granted to certain localities by 10 localities. Among them is Gorai. The city is located in the district of Bilgoraj in the war. Lublin. Goray is one of the oldest towns in the Lublin Voivodeship. In 1377 King Louis Hungarian gave his co-worker Dmitri a castle and a castle of Łada. This message was confirmed by King Władysław Jagiełłł. In 1379, the parish, whose parish priests were among others, was equated there. Professors of the Zamość Academy. In 1595 Trojanowski, as the next owner, sold Gora's goods to Jan Zamoyski, who incorporated them into the Zamość Order. For nearly five centuries, Goray was a city, but the history and turbulent history of these lands led to the loss of this status. After the fall of the January Uprising in 1869 under the Tsar's order, the city lost its city rights for its inhabitants, and despite many efforts it did not recover until 2021. The first efforts to recover wrongly lost urban rights were made in the 1990s. 20th century Unfortunately, at the time, the town did not meet some of the requirements necessary for the re-assigned status of the city. Thanks to the efforts of the residents, councillors and above all the Association of Goraj 1377, which in April 2019 requested action on the restoration of urban rights, an official procedure was launched, which was positively assessed by the then Lublin Voivode Przemysław Czarnek. The process started in 2019 ended on 31 July 2020. At the hands of the President of the Council of Ministers, Mateusz Morawiecki, Mayor of Goraj Antoni Łukasik, received the act of granting the status of the city. February 10th this year the first session of the Goray City Council took place. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u550	Thank you very much. Mr Waldemar Andzel, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u551	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's statement is about the March Constitution on the 100th anniversary of its adoption. On 17 March 1921 there is a great celebration of Polish democracy, the 100th anniversary of the adoption of the March Constitution. This law provided that the sovereign power belonged to the nation, while the structure of the state was based on a threefold division of power. Other key elements of the March Constitution included five adjective elections, the abolition of state privileges in respect of the applicable law, the acquisition of women's electoral rights, the designation of parliament as supreme authority, the basis of the local government system or State control through the Supreme Audit Chamber. The March Constitution was very modern, as was the Polish political thought at that time. As her greatest weakness, however, her inefficiencies are indicated. The day of the adoption of the March Constitution was a great holiday, not only on Warsaw streets. Józef Piłsudski, the head of state, arrived at the Sejm on that day, who together with the Members and members of the government went to a service to the Cathedral of St. Jana in Warsaw. The Constitution was in force from the entry into force, i.e. from 1 June 1921, until the entry into force of the April Constitution, i.e. until 24 April 1935. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u552	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski. There isn't. There isn't. Mrs Ewa Kozanecka, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u553	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! 40 years ago, on March 19, 1981, in the session room of the Voivodeship National Council in Bydgoszcz there were events of Bydgoszcz, during which the ZOMO officers of peasant activist Michał Bartoszcze and two unionists, Mariusz Łabentowicz and President of Bydgoszcz, Jan Rulewski, were beaten. They came to the session of the Provincial National Council for an official invitation, where they were to speak on the problems of the Polish village and ask for the right to join farmers in an independent union from the authorities. Contrary to previous assurances, however, they were prevented from speaking, and when they began protesting against the violation of the right to speak freely and express their views, they were brutally removed by the militia. These events have caused a huge social uproar across the country against the authorities and policies at that time, as reflected in the proclamation of solidarity strikes throughout the country. The enormous social pressure and threat of a nationwide general strike once again forced the government to negotiate with Solidarity. The determination of the strikers has resulted in the resistance of the camp to the demand to legalise the independent trade union of individual farmers being effectively overcome. The socio-political crisis in Bydgoszcz has been resolved following the conclusion of the Warsaw Agreement on 30 March 1981. It gave rise to final discussions with representatives of the authorities on the legal conditions for the recognition of an independent trade union of individual farmers. On 16 March 1981, in the occupied seat of the United People's Party in Bydgoszcz, where a nationwide peasant strike continued, talks between the government commission and the agricultural strike committee brought about a successful finale in the form of the conclusion of the Bydgoszcz Agreement on 17 April 1981. The Authority has committed itself to creating a legal framework for the free operation of the Independent Self-Governmental Association of Individual Farmers (Solidarity), which was finally legalized on 12 May 1981. High Izbo! In order for the Polish Sejm to celebrate the 40th anniversary of the Bydgoszcz crisis in 1981 and the establishment of an independent self-government trade union of individual farmers and all participants in Bydgoszcz events and those involved in the fight for the creation of an independent communist trade union of farmers, I have submitted a resolution to the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u554	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u555	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! European funds are an important element of these achievements, which Poland had both during the past financial perspectives and in this perspective, in which we are now, until 2027. We were counting on these funds. They are significant. The same is true, including both the multiannual financial framework and the Fund for Reconstruction. However, each envelope of these funds needs to be prepared: firstly, partnership agreements between Poland and the European Commission, but also regional operational programmes, which must also be negotiated with the European Commission; secondly, a recovery plan presented at a press conference on 26 February at 3 p.m. 14, it is a pity that not in the Sejm of the Republic of Poland - although we asked for such a presentation to be included in the agenda, we were sent to a press conference; thirdly, the strategic plan of the Community agricultural policy for the years 2023 to 2027, which was presented with a consultation deadline of 15 February and to which about 3,000 were reported. resolutions and conclusions. What would I expect from the process of preparing and implementing these decisions? First, the criteria and the allocation algorithm. This applies in particular to the Partnership Agreement, within which 40% resources are to be made available to regional authorities. This problem is that the preliminary breakdown was critically adopted by regional authorities, which received very low amounts, reduced from a dozen years to 56%, depending on the region. The two regions are the most affected: Wielkopolska and Lower Silesia. Wielkopolska received a project in which the amount of funds allocated amounts to EUR 1.07 billion compared to EUR 2.5 billion from the previous financial perspective. At the same time, it was left 7.5 - a billion-dollar reserve to be negotiated. Here again the question of criteria and validity of declarations, among others. Ministers of the current government, who in Lower Silesia said that this region would receive no less than in the previous financial perspective, in which it received EUR 2.2 billion, even though negotiations on the allocation of this amount from the reserve have not yet started. As regards the Fund for Reconstruction, or actually its project, it was presented at a press conference and was not presented in the Sejm. It proposes the distribution of the grant part of almost EUR 24 billion without a suggestion on the loan part, which allocates EUR 34.2 billion. Where do I see the problem? First, in disregard of the presentation of this document at the meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I'd say this is the right place. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In addition, in the absence of an answer to the question, how will investment proposals submitted by local governments of voivodships be taken into account... Mr. Marshal, just a moment, if you don't mind. ...but also institutions, state companies. At the same time, the Sejm is to agree to ratify the increase of the European Union budget from 1.27% Gross national income up to 1.4% gross national income of Poland and other Member States. Without this agreement for ratification, it will not be possible for the European Commission to incur debt to finance this fund, which will be repaid over the years from 2028 to 2058. The reconstruction fund is intended to stimulate the economy, increase the resilience of both the economy and societies, e.g. in situations like epidemics. In fact, it is said that this should be a kind of Marshall plan for the economy of Poland and economies of other Member States. We therefore put before the government the task of involving local authorities in the preparation of this fund, including the Fund for Reconstruction also of real support for agriculture and rural areas, as well as support for citizens, for example by establishing a tax-free amount, before the High House passes to vote, because according to the study and analysis office's expertise, this opinion will require 307 votes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u556	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u557	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On Monday, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki dismissed Mr Adrian Czubak from the function of Opole Voivodeship. They say it's personal. Personal reasons must have been very serious, since the resignation surprised the exiled one who claimed to have brought it up. The surroundings accepted this fact with relief, because the mental state of the former voivode of all, including his own environment, was clearly tired. Being classy was always foreign to Mr. Chubak, so it's no wonder he took his frustration out on me, his predecessor. With Mr. Czubak, the level of impropriety, prejudice, incompetence, megalomania and narcissism, lack of understanding of the essence of his function, misrepresentation of facts, ignoring the obviousness that everyone is based on the achievements of his predecessors, I could still bear, but a lie that is particularly vile, impudent to me, for humiliating my employees, I have to react. I could talk a long time about my concern for the employees. I will address the wage issue, the biggest problem of that period of post-crisis freezing of wages in the administration. Several years of efforts, direct talks with Prime Minister Donald Tusk resulted. I will quote the material prepared by the team of the Head of Civil Service: in 2015 as a result of the speech of the Opole Voivodeship to the Minister of Finance, there has been a very significant increase in the financing of salaries in the Opole Voivodeship Office. The planned wage fund increased by 14.5% in voivodship offices, a total of 1.8%. In 2015 there was the highest increase in salaries year to year during the freezing period of the basic amount and the second largest in the last decade, by about PLN 370. Mr. Adrian Chubak! You have received a renovated, furnished office with a view of the Piast Tower, a monument, a symbol of the region that I had the pleasure of refurbished for the use of the regional community. You've been given a modern crisis management center and a new voivodship emergency call center. The facility found a new destination for children, as a home of the child of the Opolskie district. Those and dozens of other things, including the big, hundreds of millions of investments (the bell) of hydrotechnical, flood-proof, you didn't notice. Complexes, blindness didn't allow. I wasn't called off by the Prime Minister. I quit my job as an envoy. I remain one of the eight-nine people in a country that has served as a voivode continuously for 8 years. I was greeted by the applause of the workers filling the combined tearooms and the Ottoman. You must have been soothed by the pissant's filly after the cancellation. The statement that you found the Opole region wooden and left it brick, that you had Westerplatte inside you, I leave no comment. I'm not a psychiatrist. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u558	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u559	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! National Agricultural Support Centre. Ladies and gentlemen, we know this name for example from supervision, excellent supervision of strategic companies of the State Treasury, and there are 38 of them. Ladies and gentlemen, we know the stories of Janów, Michałów, and today I will talk about another stud, breeding horses in Nowielice. Ladies and gentlemen! 2.5 thousands. hectares, breeding of Polish sports horses - this is how it was changed. And what happens, ladies and gentlemen, in this strategic company? After 70 years of cattle breeding because it was brought to devastation, to such a state that it was better to eliminate, ladies and gentlemen, this herd, which gave an average of 9 thousand. And milk, rather than finding money to build new barns. You couldn't do it. You should have done it. Ladies and gentlemen! 1100 hectares of meadows and pastures. I said, "What's gonna happen to it?" For those dozens of horses... The company has suffered losses for 2 years, the sale of horses for the last 2 years is, ladies and gentlemen, an average of 200,000. PLN per year. There are also many employees who have been associated with this company for many, many years. I wonder what's gonna happen to them. A few months ago, the company acquired further land from the KOWR branch in Szczecin under unexplained circumstances. It's about the best land. Farmers were looking forward to this possibility, unfortunately they were prevented from acquiring these land or taking them into lease. I have a fundamental question for the Minister today. Minister, where's the oversight of the companies? You have an excellent history policy, but you have no economic policy. Because there are people who are faithful in these positions, but very mediocre. Minister, it is time for these strategic companies, which should be the card of Polish agriculture, the level of technology, let's say, the expertise of people, finally such companies. Because based on what I saw in Novice, I'm sure I can't say that, and I'm afraid, ladies and gentlemen, that if we go to other places like this, we won't see a better state at all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u560	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u561	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In August 2019 farmers from the Bielski district in Podlaskie voivodship asked us, then the councillors of the Polish People's Party in Podlaskie voivodship, for help in a difficult situation concerning the Dairy Cooperative Bielmlek in Bielsk Podlaski. We went, talked to the farmers, tried to get in touch with the Minister of Agriculture, with the Deputy Minister of Agriculture. It wasn't easy. I wrote an open letter to President Kaczyński asking for intervention, after all, before the elections PiS MEPs are always happy to appear in the village, among farmers. There was a time when we asked for intervention even President Kaczyński, who could do anything in this country. The point was to intervene, because farmers don't receive money for milk delivered to the cooperative, they can't agree enough with the president, with the board of directors. We were attacked then, that this is political action, the situation of the cooperative is good, and it will only be better, because the president of the cooperative Mr Tadeusz Romańczuk is a former deputy minister in the government of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki. As Deputy Minister, he worked with Minister Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski. The attacks started that this was just a political action, not a desire to help farmers. Then there were more meetings with the president in front of the plant. We also raised this problem here at the agricultural committee meeting. Desperate farmers came, asked for help, once again they didn't get the money. Then Minister Ardanowski defended his party colleague instead of listening to the voice of the farmers. Unfortunately, the final part is that the Bielmlek Mleczarska Cooperative - a modern plant, which receives funding from many sources, EU funds, national funds, has fallen. There's no bet today. The syndicate declared bankruptcy, the assets will be sold in a moment, wasted, debt amounted to PLN 240 million. That's how the story of one of the beautiful bets in Podlasie ended. And then what? Will the next bets end the same as the one in Bielsk Podlaski? [[♪ The bell ♪]] It wasn't about manual control, it was about controlling the proper services and getting them cleaned up. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u562	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u563	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! February 22nd this year The Council of Ministers issued a regulation in which it wrote that together with teachers, administrative and school staff are to be vaccinated: janitors, cleaners, secretaries and other persons having direct contact with students, parents and school visitors. This group has only 150 thousand in Poland. persons. This vaccination would logically end the vaccination of employees of the entire education system. Four days later, on February 26th, someone was seen and the government threw administrative staff off the vaccine list. Why was school workers so urgently expelled from the list who work in contact with their students and parents? They did not give up the place of lecturers at universities and seminaries of priests who work remotely, without personal contact with students, with other lecturers and administration of universities. This raises the question: Has the Council of Ministers acted in substance, which is not particularly visible, or has the chaotic movement of the government resulted from general chaos in managing the fight against pandemics? Another question. When government experts of the Medical Council acted scientifically and substantively: when they included school staff on the list of vaccinated persons or when after 4 days they deleted them from this list? Why was it not postponed to a later date for the vaccination of civil and ecclesiastical teachers? Was it a substantive action, or did the academic staff of the government's Medical Council simply in a friendly way get their colleagues and colleagues from higher education to inoculate outside the logical order, i.e. de facto at the expense of seniors? There's a lot more to these questions. Since the scandal must have taken place with the help of Minister Przemysław Czarnek, I kindly ask the Prime Minister to ask the Minister whether he had the courage to explain this scandal to his directors and employees, or whether he simply took water in his mouth and disappeared from the school Internet. Can principals and school workers count on their minister and their ministry? And if they don't, who can they count on? What's next with the vaccination of education and school workers? When will this professional group be vaccinated? What ideas do the government and the Medical Council have today? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u564	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u565	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! My statement concerns ministerial inadequacies in implementing citizens' ideas. On 14 September 2019, thanks to the citizens' petition, the Sejm amended the law on numbers games. As a result, the possibility of spending funds from the Physical Culture Development Fund on the so-called "physical culture development fund" was introduced. social tourism, in which they can participate, among others. children, young people, families, people with disabilities. In view of this legal solution, which has been introduced, as I mentioned, as a result of a citizens' petition and, of course, with the approval of the government, the Fund's plan provides for an amount of PLN 5 million for this purpose in 2020. However, programmes announced by the operator, i.e. the manager of the Physical Culture Development Fund, are needed to mobilise these funds. In the meantime, the government is reorganizing. Tourism as a department of government passes from the Minister of Sport and Tourism to the minister responsible for tourism, i.e. the economy. This means that officials do not have time to deal with the issue of preparing such programmes. The year 2020 is over, the funds are not spent. The financial plan of the fund adopted by the House under the annex to the budget law once again shows the amount of PLN 5 million with the possibility of spending on social tourism programmes. Nevertheless, the officials of two ministries, which are already the Ministry of Culture, National Heritage and Sport, and the Minister responsible for tourism, cannot find the time to prepare the relevant documents and announce the recruitment programmes for this programme. That is why I appeal from this point: ladies and gentlemen, respect civic activity. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-16-sejm-27-1.u566	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, this moment has drawn nearer. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. By 17 March 2021 at the latest 9. Thank you very much. I wish you, all the many Members and Members of this House, a happy dream. Goodbye. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 23 min 07]]
