ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u1	I kindly inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Education, Science and Youth - hour 10.30, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 11, - Foreign Affairs - hour 11, - Health-- hour. 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12.30, - Infrastructure - hour 13, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 14, - Culture and Media - hour 14, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 14, - Local Government and Regional Policy together with the Health Commission - at 3 p.m. 15, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 16, - Public Finance - hour. 18. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u2	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the office of things found here is for a while. Which one of you left this set here... Feather. ...piercing? If anyone recognizes, please report here, they'll be waiting. Three Members have come forward with formal proposals, ladies and gentlemen. Please, Mr Cezary Tomczyk, the Civic Coalition. One minute. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u3	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm applying for a recess. We have tabled a resolution calling on the President of the Council of Ministers to immediately show Poles the plan of rebuilding and ending this embarrassing procedure within the Council of Ministers. 250 billion PLN - so much is to be sent to Poland as part of the European reconstruction programme. Poles are waiting for this money. And the truth is, you guys are just fighting. We don't even know if you have the majority in this room to vote on this program. I address Mr Morawiecki: Mr Prime Minister, walk through the streets of Polish cities, walk through the streets of Tarnow, Szczecin, Sieradz, Warsaw, before you see these empty sites. Look at the empty windows, because there were shops, there were restaurants. They've fallen. [[Applause]] These people are waiting for help today. This money has to go to Poland as soon as possible. And you're wondering if you're gonna take the money? Minister Kowalski said today during the interview that he doesn't know if such a plan exists at all. Minister Ziobro says he doesn't know if he'll accept this plan. This money has to go to Poland as soon as possible. If you don't have a (Bingle) majority in your own government, then the Sejm will help you with your resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u4	Thank you very much. Mr President, I understand that you are asking for a recess because, Mr President, I am about to put to the vote a request for a recess - your proposal is not an issue, because it is not on the agenda... You didn't type it in. ...therefore, the decision was so... According to the regulations, I'm directing this to... You're rolling again. Ladies and gentlemen, do you have such a habit of interrupting anyone who speaks? Member, please, I would like to explain to you. I therefore refer this to the Committee on Public Finance. On the other hand, according to the Rules of Procedure at this meeting of the Sejm, there is a request from the Civic Coalition, your club, and that information will be about it. Then, Mr President, I will put to the vote a request for a recess... Your Marshal, a resolution is not the same as information. ...in turn, I repeat to you once again, we will not vote on the resolution because it is not a point of dispute because it is not on the agenda. Because you didn't sign it, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, there's been a formal request for an adjournment. Your marshal, your resolution... I suggest you... I would very much like to ask you to read the Rules of Procedure on this matter. If you change it so often, it doesn't make sense. A formal request for adjournment has been submitted. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. There's no 250 billion, no problem. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Your Marshal, I have a formal motion, but not a political one, but a clean one, so I don't know why I can't report. [[The Marshal's mic is off.]] And what's that? Excuse me? And what's that? About the obligation to wear masks. I beg you, sir... But really serious, really. Mr. President, listen to me. This is a state decision, not my personal decision. So... But this is just about... I like you very much. Sit down, really. Please, sir. This isn't about the agenda, so you can come to me... and talk about the masks. Okay? In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Mr President, the formal proposals concern... matters. This is not a formal conclusion. Formal conclusion. No. You can come to my place and talk... I won't. You can't convince me. I can't convince you. Everyone stay on their own. That's what happens. Your marshal will at best reject it. Mr President, we have already agreed. Seriously, don't exaggerate. Your Marshal, I'll have... 95% formal applications submitted are not formal applications. And you tolerate it. I'm the only one who can't. Because most of you are making proposals that aren't formal, so... Your Marshal, I understand that you gave the order first that you must not sign up for formal applications. Mr President, this principle has long been in force - you know it very well - adopted by the Bureau of the previous term of office, so don't abuse it... Your marshal, you said... and on this matter, I'd like to ask you for a formal motion. In this bill, now? ...these are too important issues to... Mr President, do you know the rules on this issue? Yes, Your Marshal. Mr. President, listen to me. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, formal proposals may relate to matters on the agenda. The information was that we were sending it to the Committee on Public Finance. And you can't put the proposals to the vote... it's not on the agenda. You have to understand that. Your Marshal, it's hard not to need this... Mr President, may I invite you to my office for a discussion, and now please... Your marshal, I'm always happy to, but... I'll make good coffee. I know. You're welcome. Your Marshal, we cannot lead you to believe that no one is speaking on such fundamental issues in the Seym. He's taking the floor. He's not taking it. Mr. President, there's current information, it's on the committee... But not about this. Of course I do. It's about the state of preparation, not ratification. Mr President, you will ask for everything. Of course we will, because we can't in another... This is not a formal proposal, Mr President. Your marshal, however, I repeat my request for a formal application. I like you anyway, and I'm not putting this to the vote because it's not a formal motion... I would like to refer to the way in which the proceedings are conducted and I would like to ask for a formal proposal. No. 432 Members voted. 196 - for, 226 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. With a formal proposal from Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation. One minute. If this is a request for a break, sir, I should like to inform you that I will not put this proposal to the vote because it was just a moment ago. I know, I know. So what did you come up with this time? What he's inventing is nothing, but what the government is inventing...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u5	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I submit a request for adjournment and convening the Seniors Convention in order to include on the agenda a compensation specialty which passed through the Senate last week. Ladies and gentlemen! In the post office of last week, which your marshal received from Marshal Grodzki, the former Supreme Court Act, i.e. concerning an emergency complaint, and the Compensation Act - a law that could really give breath to those entrepreneurs, which at this point you are actually dealing with bankruptcy with your government, you are causing the drama of these entrepreneurs. This bill, which was passed by the Senate, which was just prepared by entrepreneurs, could actually affect the current state of these people and these businesses, all those that you closed down. The Supreme Court Act is now under investigation, and the compensation bill is not included in the agenda of our sitting. I'd like to hear why. And if there's no explanation why-- I mean, I know why, but you're not gonna talk about it out loud. - I think we should bring this to the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u6	Mr President, this is a non-regulatory proposal, and I wanted to inform you about it. You know that very well. Here you go, Mrs Magdalena Beyat. I hope it's a rule-of-law motion. One minute, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u7	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! During this meeting, we will examine extremely important issues relating to matters directly affecting citizens and citizens. At the last moment, a judicial proposal was introduced yesterday. I therefore request a change of conduct and an extension of the time to present the club's position for up to 10 minutes, as two proposals have been combined. On this occasion, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we will also talk about women's rights. Tomorrow afternoon we will vote on the inclusion on the agenda of the Left Rescue Act. Some of the Members get up and keep the pages with the inscription "Salvation Act" now! I would like to point out that we are hearing voices about the dramatic situation of women whose lives and health are at risk, who are already being refused to save their health and the life of abortions. The law and conscience order them to be saved, but doctors do not do so because of fear, fear of prison punishment. I call for this to be included in the discussion. Polish people and Poles have the right to this discussion. I call you to allow her - all from the right to the center. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish people and Poles deserve it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u8	Thank you, Member. This was not reported at the Convention meeting, Madam President. I wanted to inform you that no one reported this at the Convention meeting. As you have made a formal request to change the way in which your speeches are conducted by extension to 10 minutes, I will put to the vote the proposal of the Bureau of the Sejm for five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in a joint discussion. We are voting on the proposal adopted by the Sejm Bureau. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal of the Sejm Bureau in terms of speaking time on behalf of clubs and circles, 5 minutes? Who's in favour? I would remind you, this is a proposal from the Bureau. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 225 - for, 204 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We proceed with the consideration of items 2 and 3 of the agenda: I ask the Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, Ms Małgorzata Paprocka, to present the justification for the bill contained in print no. 935.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u9	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the legislative initiative of the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda - a draft law amending the Law on the Supreme Court. The changes proposed by your President stem from the experience of the application of the Law of 8 December 2017 on the Supreme Court without a small period of 3 years after its entry into force. The main objective of the proposed law is to extend the deadline for lodging an emergency complaint referred to in Article. 115 § 1 of the Supreme Court Act. The emergency complaint appeared in the Polish legal order... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]] Excuse me for a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I would like to remind you that the Sejm is in session, the rapporteur has a voice, and I would ask us not to talk, and those people who want to talk, because it is human - to do so outside the room. You're very welcome. There you go. Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Margaret Paprock: Thank you, Marshal. As I mentioned, the emergency complaint appeared in the Polish legal order at the initiative of President Andrzej Duda, which was due to the belief that judgments of the courts should be fair and given on the basis of properly reconstructed legal standards, as well as to correspond to properly collected and evaluated evidence. As needed by the institution, the case law of the Supreme Court is based on the case law of the case-law of the case-law of the Supreme Court. As a general rule, the Act provides that an emergency action shall be brought within 5 years of the judgment under appeal and, if an appeal has been brought against the judgment, within one year of the date of its examination. On the other hand, in accordance with the transitional provision in Article. 115 for a period of 3 years from the date of entry into force of the Act, an emergency complaint may be brought against final decisions which have become valid after 17 October 1997, i.e. after the date of entry into force of the Constitution. An emergency complaint may be brought under such circumstances either by the Attorney General or by the Ombudsman. The extension of the deadline, which will be exemplified on 3 April this year, is driven primarily by facts, i.e. pending cases, as well as the fact that requests for emergency complaints are still being received by the rightholders. Undoubtedly, the objective premise and circumstance is also to make it difficult for the citizens concerned to request emergency complaints due to the pandemic situation. High Izbo! The proposed proposal also aims to amend the Article. 15 Act to supplement the procedures for selecting candidates for the post of President of the Supreme Court - by determining the quorum required to be selected at the meeting of the Judges of the Supreme Court. The proposal also extends the reference to the proper application of the rules on candidates and their selection with regard to the first President of the Supreme Court for candidates and the selection of candidates for the position of President of the Supreme Court. The proposed amendment aims to ensure that the President of the Supreme Court can be elected, which, in view of the statutory duties and powers of the Supreme Court's Presidents, is important for the proper organisation of the work of the various Supreme Court chambers. In the revision of the article. 83 of the Law on the Supreme Court, the President proposes that, in the event of a request for a decision on a legal matter to the Supreme Court, if the caselaw of the general courts, military courts or Supreme Court reveals discrepancies in the interpretation of the law and there is a need to ensure uniformity of case law - that is, the proposal is not related to a specific case under consideration by the Supreme Court - to the allocation of such an application and to the appointment of a composition, as well as to the order in which the application is dealt with, the provisions laid down in Article should apply accordingly. 80 of the Supreme Court Act, except that if the application was submitted by the first President of the Supreme Court or one of the eligible entities, e.g. The Advocate General, the Ombudsman, the Ombudsman, the President of the Prosecutor's Office are the duties and powers of the President of the Supreme Court as regards the allocation of cases and the appointment of the formation of the Judge, as well as the order in which applications are dealt with should be exercised by the first President of the Supreme Court. The draft also proposes the addition of an article. 96a, i.e. a provision (the bell) necessary for the formal regulation of the manner in which the judicial files are created, processed and archived or destroyed in cases recognised by the Supreme Court. The project complements the lack of existing legislation in this area. It should be pointed out that a separate case file is being drawn up in the Supreme Court, independent of the case files before general courts or military courts. Minister, we're almost done. You're welcome. Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Margaret Paprock: I'm almost done, Marshal. In this respect, the draft law was also accompanied by an appropriate draft regulation by the President, which would regulate these issues. Another change you've proposed... Minister, one minute. Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Margaret Paprock: ...the president is the repeal of the article. 103th Supreme Court Act. It is a matter of not determining the remuneration of the First President of the Supreme Court at the level of the Secretary of State. These are non-political positions, and in the opinion of the President, this should simply be governed by the relevant orders of the first President. Thank you, Minister. Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Margaret Paprock: Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u10	I would like to ask Senator Lydia Staroń to present the justification for the bill contained in print No. 951. Thank you again, Minister. We're in touch with the senator. The senator's already actually with us. Good morning, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u11	Good morning. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I just wanted to say a little bit about print project 951. This is a Senate project. This project actually - I can say so - was supported above all divisions, all senators supported this project, 97 senators voted in favour, there were no votes against. Why? Because it's an emergency complaint, which means it's a project for people. The project provides for an extension of the deadline for lodging an emergency complaint from 3 to 5 years. We made it so that there was only one point in this project, because this deadline ends on April 3rd. We know the Senate is only once, now the Sejm, then the Senate. We did it in time to just help people. Our great request is that the Senate should, of course, support the Sejm, it is important, but also that this printing should be dealt with separately, precisely because there is only one provision that should become the law as soon as possible. What is it? Of course, the point is that there is an extended deadline for an emergency complaint from 3 to 5 years, but also the justification is that there is a pandemic, we know that this is such a time that there is a danger not only of health but of life, so people cannot fight for justice, they cannot seek help just because there is such a time of danger. That's the first thing. And the other thing is, it's a case. those many requests, applications that are at the Ombudsman's office and which are also at the Attorney General's office. Looking at the statistics... I'm not gonna talk about the complaint because we know what's going on. The point is to fight for justice... These judgments are final, but are they grossly violating the law, whether it's a matter of fact, because only an emergency complaint can speak of a fact, of evidence... That's why it's so important. And what's the statistics? Statistics is that for these three years, because the complaint has been since 2018... Besides, we fought for it for many years and we did it. So to speak, I've filed regulations with the president just to make this an emergency complaint. There it is. Over the three years of these requests, the citizens' applications to the spokesperson and the prosecutor were more than 16,000, exactly as far as the prosecutor is concerned, I'm going to say so briefly, to know what's going on, there's more than 8,000 of them. to the spokesperson, and only 1.5 thousand are recognized. cases. So there are 6700 cases, that is, tragedies of people, various kinds of requests, their judgments, which are often unfair, grossly violating the law. And as far as the Attorney General is concerned, there are also over 8,000 cases. There are many, many more recognized, and there are about 1 000 unrecognizable. So today, there are about 7.5,000 unrecognizable, unrecognized cases. That's why we're fighting for this time for people, for an extension of this term. This is the first thing, and the second thing is a pandemic. And the justification is that (the bell) after all those things that go to those intermediaries... We're going slow, Senator. ...that's to the spokesperson and the prosecutor, are often justified, because these extraordinary actions go to the Supreme Court and these cases were It's about 300 over there. So once again, I ask that these regulations, this bill, this printing be supported by the Sejm and that it be dealt with separately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u12	Thank you very much, Senator. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I am the first to invite Mr Daniel Milewski, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u13	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! When considering these two draft laws, the two proposals relating to the work of the Supreme Court, we also have the opportunity to look at the institution of emergency complaint, which was introduced by the High Chamber in 2017 and which was directly related to it, and then established by the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs, from the perspective of the last three years. In this context, ladies and gentlemen, the senate reasons for admitting that an emergency complaint is often the last resort of rescue for the defendants who feel harmed by unjust sentences. It may seem that the only factor - let's say negative - is the overwhelming amount of matters that citizens want to be interested in those who are entitled to lodge an emergency complaint. Feel deep respect for the work carried out in this area by the services of the Attorney General, the Ombudsman and the Supreme Court. This voice in the Polish public debate, the debate on judicial reform was very much needed, ladies and gentlemen. And he's needed. It is needed because it is genuine, focused on the needs of citizens, not calculated solely on current political benefits. I wish you all, all of us, I wish our co-workers of the Seym opposition that more in our debate is the language, language of understanding and respect present in the package of documents which, with the signature of Marshal Grodzki, have entered the work of the High House. Of course, in the legislative sense, the Senate project is completely consummated by the presidential presentation, a little wider, and thus better, to some extent comprehensively responding to the most urgent needs for the current functioning of the Supreme Court. I have already mentioned a large number of cases with which citizens address the right holders. For three years the Supreme Court Act has been in force, several thousand citizens have submitted applications to the Attorney General and the Ombudsman entitled to lodge an emergency complaint in their case. As pointed out in the Senate's explanatory memorandum, these three years are too short a period for citizens to be so interested in the modest background of RPO officials and the National Public Prosecutor's Office, who are looking at proposals, to fix often - as is called - the law of Judah. The extension of the term proposed by both the President and the Senate is in response to both the practical aspects resulting from the ongoing pandemic, and is simply an expression of respect for citizens who have the right confidence in the rule of law, which is increasingly our Republic. It is worth pointing out once again that the presidential presentation is a more comprehensive proposal. One of the proposals contained in this submission is to exploit the potential and experience of the present Supreme Court jury. It is proposed to extend the first term of office of the jury until 31 December 2022. The epidemic situation is also in favour of this change. The issues concerning the archiving of documents have already been mentioned by the Minister, as well as those aimed at strengthening all proceedings before the Supreme Court. the principle of internal disclosure, expressing directly the right of the parties and the parties to proceedings both to review court files and to obtain copies, copies and extracts thereof. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I wish us a fruitful work in the committees on this project. As I have already mentioned, this project, both of these projects have a deep respect for citizens, a sense of justice in their assumptions. I wish you a fruitful work on this project on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. We declare all openness and willingness to cooperate constructively. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u14	Thank you, sir, for your wishes and for your comments. Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u15	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club regarding the joint recognition of print No 935, i.e. the presidential draft law on changes to the Supreme Court, and the Senate draft law on changes to the Supreme Court, contained in print No 951. Constitutional reservations and generally negative assessments are generated by the presidential project. Why? In the messages of the President's Office, which was also heard today during the Minister's speech, there is a picture that the President cares about the way an emergency complaint works. But it's a false image. First of all, the President was so much in favour of an emergency complaint that he didn't want that kind of authority. Let the Attorney General have it. Let the Ombudsman have it. In our previous term of office, we proposed that the President's Office, which has a huge administrative apparatus, should also be involved in this mechanism and help citizens. No. The President's office washes its hands of this. Today I repeat my appeal. If we can see that there are blockages, let the President's Office engage in this resolution and the submission of emergency complaints. The President's law firm washes hands of this problem, extending only its duration. That is why I am saying that this is a false image, because the real intention of this presidential project is not an extraordinary complaint at all, but a personal change in the Supreme Court. Yes, sir. We remember the election of the first president of the Supreme Court in the previous term. The emissaries of power, Judge Zaradkiewicz, Judge Stępkowski, conducted in huge chaos the election of the first President of the Supreme Court, whose election and legitimacy are questioned today. And that is why the President now, in his draft bill, proposes that these solutions which failed in the election of the first President of the Supreme Court, be moved to the issue of the Presidents of all chambers. We're running out of terms, so it's an opportunity for the authorities to jump to their posts. That's all this bill is about. An emergency complaint, as I repeat, is just a smokescreen. It will be the President who will have the power to designate his Commissioners in the Supreme Court, i.e. those acting as President of the Chamber. And I'm asking if there's a presidential prerogative in the article. 144 constitutions. Could you point her out, please? There isn't. If there isn't, then such a decision will require a countersignation from the President of the Council of Ministers. What's the effect? Such that the Prime Minister of the Polish Government, the politician, a member of the political party will indicate the persons who perform their duties in the Supreme Court. Isn't that the politicization of the Supreme Court? This is a pure form of politicalization of the Supreme Court. Why is this happening? That is because the Supreme Court is dealing with cases such as the status of judges selected by the politicised National Judicial Council, because it is the Supreme Court that has the power to make binding interpretations when there is a conflict of laws in the system of law. Yes, the President is even proposing a very dangerous change in this area. Today, when there is a need to resolve a legal dispute that is of relevance to citizens, the Presidents of individual chambers determine the compositions that make such important decisions, and according to the presidential project the first President of the Supreme Court will do so. Why? That's because it's easier when one person can manipulate the assemblies, not individual Presidents of Chambers. We observe in the general courts, in the Constitutional Court the full pathology of the functioning of these institutions, in view of the politicisation of the functions of governors in the courts, the manipulation of formations in common courts and in the Constitutional Court. Now the same pathologies the president will want to bring to the Supreme Court. But, of course, we hear from the Seymary that it's just an emergency complaint. Bullshit. This draft law introduces a full politicisation in the Supreme Court as regards the functioning of the highest organisational positions. That is why we respect the project addressed by the Upper House of the Polish Parliament, the Senate, and of course we express our will to work on it, while we believe that the presidential bill in its entirety deserves to be rejected for the reasons mentioned by me. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On behalf of the parliamentary club, I submit a motion for rejection. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u16	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Anna Maria Żukowska, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u17	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is a pity that there is no applicant, Mr President, who had time to go skiing, also had time to return with a government column from these skis, but unfortunately did not present himself to present his amendment - the eleventh amendment, let us stress - the law on the Supreme Court. This is an amendment that is a wolf in sheep's clothing. It is not intended primarily to extend the time limit for the lodging of an emergency complaint. If this is the aim of the project, it is enough to support the Senate project, which is a very short draft law and which is precisely the case. Why is this undercover? Because the President doesn't have the courage to say directly that he wants to create a mechanism for manual management of the Supreme Court. He wants to have a pilot as an instrument for what's going on in the Supreme Court, he wants to be able to appoint his commissioners and manage the House. He wants to make the judges elected by the new Supreme Court have power in the Supreme Court, he wants manual control, and he wants to politicize the Supreme Court more and more. The solutions you propose to the President are not limited only to the selection and selection of candidates for the position of Supreme Court President. Here the President proposes a reduced quorum so that only new judges can be elected President of the Supreme Court. These changes do not deserve support, the Left Club will not support these solutions. As far as the emergency complaint is concerned, the extension of the time limit for the lodging of the complaint is absolutely sufficient in this respect for the Senate printing project. That is why the Left Club will vote against the solutions proposed by the President for rejecting this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u18	Thank you very much, madam. I invite Mr Krzysztof Smishek, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u19	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I will present the position of the Left Club in relation to the draft Print Act No. 951 submitted by the Senate. The draft amendment extends by 2 years the period during which an emergency action may be brought against a final judicial decision terminating the proceedings. Of course, for the Left Club it is nothing unusual, it is nothing controversial, the emergency complaint turned out to be a popular means of asserting its rights by Poles and Poles. As we know, it is the Ombudsman or the Attorney General who may appear at the Supreme Court with appropriate conclusions. About how popular this tool is, numbers can testify, they can provide statistics. The Ombudsman received more than 8,000. conclusions, but - which is extremely alarming - only 1500 have been examined in substance. Even more reservations or concerns are raised by the fact that the Ombudsman himself made only 30 complaints from the 8 thousand Poles and Poles submitted to the Ombudsman's office. The same is true of the Attorney General - 8,000. applications and only 228 complaints were brought. What does that tell you? And as I say, it is nothing controversial for the Left Club that Poles and Poles use this tool in a collective way. But today we wake up a little in a situation to which Law and Justice have led. Because it's not just a pandemic, it's not just a matter of court proceedings being extended today because of more or less objective factors. After all, there are too few people working at the Ombudsman's Office who can deal with these complaints. From year to year, the Ombudsman's budget is cut. So today we all suddenly wake up and say, "Well, the Ombudsman has no working power, and Poles expect this constitutional body, the body of government to act effectively. How can we tell Poles today that they are to file a complaint with the Ombudsman when its budget is cut every year? So when we're working on this project, [[♪ The bell ♪]] We should think deeply about how to strengthen this constitutional body. On behalf of the Left Club, I declare that we will support Senate print No. 951. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u20	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Jack Protasiewicz, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives. I have said all right, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u21	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In fact, Poles may have forgotten that they have some president, President of the Republic of Poland, who, although twice in this House, has taken an oath from this place, that the welfare of citizens will always be the highest command for him, but somehow this oath is not intended to keep. Although on the eve of the presidential campaign he promised Polish entrepreneurs that he would summon the Polish Bank Association and enforce it from bankers, to take into account the difficult situation of Polish companies, especially those who are burdened with loans in those banks, in a situation where the Polish government, fighting a pandemic, clearly and significantly reduced their ability to act. Later he also promised, already during the election campaign, that thanks to cooperation with the United States, he would give Poles access to safe and effective vaccines as soon as possible. But not one or the other promise has ever been fulfilled. Entrepreneurs have been told by the President that in a situation where they are having difficulty with the bank, they simply change the bank, and that citizens have said that the system has changed, and that they consider the matter to be settled. Yet, I would say, at the end of September, during your visit to the Vatican, you asked the president to assure the citizens that the pandemic is under control in Poland and that in the second half of October there will be a flattening of the number of diseases, and it turned out that these assurances and promises are, in short, a pound of weasel worth it. The only activity he has shown since the presidential election was the attempt to mitigate the huge social conflict caused by the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of October last year, but this bill of his was, most gently speaking, ignored even by his own political camp in this House and never entered into session. There was another issue - informal lobbying for the non-stop ski slopes during Christmas, New Year's break and school break, but with similar results as the initiative to alleviate the social conflict that broke out after the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment. And here we are, a few days ago, a draft law has appeared amending the Supreme Court Act, adopted at the President's initiative a few years ago. This is indeed, as has already been mentioned here, because the tenth amendment of this law - this brilliant creation of the President's Chancellery - which since its adoption, not three years have passed, has already been amended for the tenth time. What is the essence of this amendment? The essence of this amendment is to replicate exactly the same mechanism, the genetic error of this law, which consists in the fact that the President himself or by a small number of Members establishes the power of this most important judicial institution of Poland. This has already been done in the case of the first judge, the first President of the Supreme Court, and, let me remind you, very clearly criticised by the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, which upholds the rule of law in the Member States, in December 2019, but recently, 1,5 months ago, during a session of the European Parliament, not of the European Parliament, but of the Council of Europe, which is not the institution of the European Union which you so often criticise, but of a much older organisation just focusing on the rule of law and human rights; criticised as an act absolutely incompatible with the principle of judicial independence, and which means that a small group of judges - this quorum - is only brought to a few judges in each Chamber, in two chambers they may be five-member groups - will elect candidates for the Presidents of the Chambers. And where is the emergency complaint that you are so proud of and boasted of by the Law and Justice representative? Yeah, where... This is something that Mr.Marek Kubala, an entrepreneur in Lower Silesia, who you used to campaign against the courts who believed you could be corrected by an extraordinary complaint by the Polish courts, but after 1000 days of waiting for his case to be dealt with (the bell), the symbolic case that you used, he gave up on this initiative. The initiative of an emergency complaint, the extension of the possibility of using it is sufficiently contained in the Senate printing. Therefore, the coalition club will support the Senate printing in the course of further work, while as far as the presidential proposal is concerned, print No 935, proposes that it be rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u22	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to invite Mr Robert Winnicki, the Confederation's Parliamentary Circle. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u23	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish judicial system is permanently ill. The Polish judicial system has not been healed in the last 5 and 6 years. The problem with the system is shown by the numbers that have already fallen from this platform. There have been thousands of requests for an emergency action before the Supreme Court, so an extension of this deadline is obviously necessary and has been included in both projects. But, ladies and gentlemen, let us not be fooled that without a systemic reset, without comprehensive solutions we will be able to heal Polish judiciary. And unfortunately, as in the last 5 and 6 years of such solutions - because there were mainly human solutions at the time - we have not seen, so total opposition does not propose comprehensive solutions either, and the situation that we have reached with regard to the Constitutional Tribunal, the Supreme Court, requires one thing, and I also say this in the context of a change of constitution in general: constitutional resett. I mean. The situation requires that the Polish political class should finally show maturity so that it can finally demonstrate its ability to reform the state's system, which was so fatally, so ineffectively, in such a way that it was defined in the 1997 Constitution. Last year, during the presidential campaign of Krzysztof Bosak, we prepared a brochure entitled "The Confederation." New order. It also contains 27 constitutional texts, to which I cordially invite you. There's a speech there, among others. on how to change the competence of the central authorities of the Republic of Poland in the spirit of the principle of three divisions of authorities. It is said that there cannot be a situation where the powers of the executive authority are rivaled by the presidential centre and the government centre. These competences should be concentrated around the government. We are talking about strengthening Parliament's control role towards the government. Finally, it is said that the President, with the mandate he has in Poland, with a strong mandate from the general election, should uphold the judicial system. Yes. We're not talking about whether it's President Duda or not, because it's supposed to be the president elected after the constitutional reform, but we're talking about the fact that it's worth copying from the American system a solution, even by calling for life in the Court, in the Supreme Court, in the National Court, because if it doesn't happen like that. In the United States, every time we change power, when we empty a position, we will have to deal with the exchange of personnel and the fact that different presidents from different options will appoint various officials who perform the highest judicial functions in the country. I would like to repeat that what is, of course, right in these laws, i.e. increasing the possibility of citizens to complain, is the result of demand, because thousands of complaints about judgments in Poland are the result of the fact that in Poland courts act slowly, unfairly, that the system simply does not work effectively, which affects not only the lives of citizens, but also the economy, the functioning of administration, all aspects of social life. The technical solutions proposed by the Senate and by the President are reasonable, they are logical, but let us not run away from this debate. I appeal for courage, I appeal for the High House to finally address what is essential for the efficiency of the functioning of the Polish state, regardless of who is in charge of it. We call for a debate and a constitutional resett, especially in the area of the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u24	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Koło Poselskie Polska 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u25	Mr. Marshal! Poland 2050. Madame, I am so sorry. Poland 2050. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Circle of Poland 2050 on the presidential and senate draft laws on amending the Law on the Supreme Court. President Duda's intentions are very clear and clear to us. The purpose of this law is to give greater power to the politicians of Law and Justice in the Supreme Court, because the current state does not satisfy the President. And there are three main objectives. First of all, the Supreme Court must be more in subjection to you. Secondly, the upcoming staff exchange is to be conducted under your dictation. Third, work in the Supreme Court is to be manually controlled. And these are the three main objectives of the presidential bill. The Presidents of each Chamber have proved to be decent people and have maintained their independence from power. In response, you want to limit their powers by handing them over to the first President of the Supreme Court, who has already been elected with your participation. The first President of the Supreme Court, and not so far the Presidents of the various chambers, is now to be appointed as the first President of the Supreme Court. Similarly, you transfer your powers to the time limits for adoption of resolutions by the Supreme Court. Secondly, as I said, staff exchanges are coming up in key positions. The presidents of the Civil Chamber and the Chamber of Labour and Social Insurance will soon finish their terms of office. If I remember correctly, it's supposed to happen in August this year. So you're just going to take over these positions and place them under Jarosław Kaczyński and Zbigniew Ziobra. This is why the Act includes among others. a reduction of the required quorum when selecting the Presidents of each Chamber, as well as the possibility for the President to appoint Mr P.o. President of the Chamber. We've already used this mechanism. It was instrumentally used by you to bring chaos and to subdue your work in the Supreme Court, when the election of the first president was not yet possible, because you did not have the majority provided. The extension of the term of office of the Supreme Court magistrates who take part in extraordinary and disciplinary matters, for a year, was also included in the presidential bill. What is the reason for such a record? The reason is simple: the jury chooses the Senate. You didn't predict that the Senate wouldn't be yours. Today, you just don't like the exchange of jurors by the opposition. You have one goal: mediocre, passive, but faithful. I will refer to the doubts about the emergency complaint. It was not by chance in 2018 that the opposition opposed this solution, indicating a breach of the principle of legal certainty and that the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs was set up in violation of the law, as stated by the Supreme Court in its resolution of 23 January 2020, still in its old composition. We have doubts about this. We have sent an inquiry to the ombudsman, who, as one of the authorities who is dealing with these complaints, is facing these complaints and is waiting to be dealt with - he should take the floor in this matter. I was really touched by Mr Milewski's concern for the state of the Ombudsman's office. According to him, it is - as he called it - modest. Perhaps, Mr Milewski, in order to change the modest state of the office and increase the number of people who could defend their citizens against the oppressive state, would it be worth increasing the Ombudsman's budget for what the Ombudsman has been fighting for for five years? This will really make any citizen's affairs at the Ombudsman's Office more quickly. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For us, the project under print number 935 is unacceptable. It cannot be corrected, and I therefore request that it be rejected at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u26	Thank you very much. We have a third motion for rejection at first reading. We're going to ask questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. I invite Mr Jan Kanthak from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u27	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The first example on the shore best shows how important an emergency complaint is. This week, Attorney General Zbigniew Ziobro filed an emergency complaint concerning the situation in which the bank demanded payment of 30,000 from the client. PLN for a loan of 7,5 thousand. zł, i.e. the percentage scale was 60%. An emergency complaint is an excellent tool for the removal of legal lawlessness. Senator Lidia Staroń and the authors of the justification for the Senate project indicate a huge imbalance in the handling of applications for an emergency complaint. The numbers in the Senate's explanatory memorandum refer to this. The Ombudsman received 8198 applications, of which 6700 applications were not dealt with at all. However, for comparison, a similar number of applications were received by the Attorney General (the bell) and only 830 of them were not dealt with. What is the result of this disproportion? That's a question for the senator. Of course... We know that over 300 people work at the Ombudsman's Office. This is sufficient to ensure a smooth handling of complaints. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u28	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Michael Szczerba, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. The Member is on his way.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u29	Good morning. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The first case is a presidential project. This is not an emergency complaint project. This issue is dealt with by the Senate project. This is about what President Duda likes the most, which is the personalities that this project is dedicated to. The project is devoted to the influence of the President - executive authority - on an independent court. Ladies and gentlemen! In August this year, the terms of office of the Presidents of the Civil Chamber and the Chamber of Labour and Social Insurance end. President Duda wants to influence the cast of these two positions in the Supreme Court chambers. Before the Chamber of Labour, proceedings shall take place concerning the status of Judges appointed after April 2018. The issue of tampering with courtrooms and assignment of cases. The first President of the Supreme Court (The Bell) shall be entitled to circumvent matters relating to the order of influence of the cases and the alphabetical order of the names of the Judges on the list. This is a thing that is simply unacceptable. In fact, there are two issues: that President Duda should have a greater impact on the seat of the Supreme Court and that he should continue to manipulate the formations of the Supreme Court. And assigning cases to judges. What President Duda is doing is simply appalling. We're filing a motion to reject this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u30	You already have, sir. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, parliamentary club of the Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u31	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The president in the Supreme Court case has no clean hands. The gmeranism of the laws that were to politicize the entire justice system in the previous term, as in the lens, today shows that the intentions of Law and Justice and the President are to politicize and make personal changes that are intended to take over the Supreme Court and then to bring to judgment such as will be expected by Law and Justice and Jarosław Kaczyński. The bill that PiS wants to vote quickly here today, which the president is reporting, is nothing more than a jump to the Supreme Court. It's an attempt to make hostile takeover and manipulation of what's most important in democracy. The Supreme Court is for the Law and Justice as a thorn in the eye and the Law and Justice would at all costs want to get rid of this thorn. [[♪ The bell ♪]] A united, smart opposition won't allow it. We will look at these processes, knowing that the Law and Justice are a party that neither justice nor law respects. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u32	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Bartosz Kownacki, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a pity that in such an important case we are dealing with who, on which slopes and where he rode, rather than what we are called to do here, that is to care for the well-being of citizens. Such excursions, debates can be conducted in publicist programmes, not in the Seymary. Enjoying this initiative and the President's earlier initiative on an emergency complaint that was absolutely needed, I have a few questions. First, the main concerns the number of complaints that affect. Is that the number of a few thousand... In fact, this is a small number, because in the case of judicial irregularities that have grown over the past few decades, this number of several thousand is small. I would like to know what is the result of such a narrow group of cases which affect, all the more so, those referred to the Supreme Court. Is there any scope for extending this complaint, its scope, perhaps in the future, so that more cases can be dealt with by the Supreme Court? But I would also like to know what the effectiveness is - it is about cases already decided by the Supreme Court - because it is de facto (the bell) that can show how important this complaint is. I would also like to conclude by asking the question: Is it true what the Ombudsman said that an emergency complaint somehow restricts citizens' rights? 'Cause that's the kind of voice we were dealing with a while ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u34	Thank you, sir. Sorry to let you say that about skiing. You know, I think it's good that Members take care of Poland when someone skis because someone has to take care of Poland. Marshal, if you want to go skiing, don't do it. I would like to ask you, Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u35	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me have a slightly different opinion from you. Indeed, President Andrzej Duda finally came back from skiing and suddenly we have his bill in the Seym, but when we read into this bill, I would say it would be better if he stayed on the slope. A bill was announced to extend the deadline for an emergency complaint, but that is not the case in this law. It's just bullshit. This is a law on taking control of chambers in the Supreme Court, those which remain independent of the current authority. This includes, in particular, the Chamber of Labour and Social Insurance, the Civil Chamber. Instead of caring about the citizens, the president only cares about the influence of the PiS in the Supreme Court. Its law will allow the election of the Presidents of the Chambers by a minority of judges, as it was practiced in the election of the first President of the Supreme Court. Moreover, if the election is not made in time, Duda will appoint his Commissioner as President of the Chamber. This is a widely criticised solution, also (the bell) in an unprecedented list of 50 judges addressed to the President. This is an unconstitutional solution. High Izbo! This Duda Act is another manifestation of the policy of destroying democracy. This Duda Act is another manifestation of the destruction of the rule of law. This is the last coffin board for the independence of the Supreme Court. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u36	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u37	Thank you kindly. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have only one question, it is indirectly related to the project's matter. By using the presence of a highly respected minister, I would like to ask if the President is simply not so humanly ashamed. Isn't it a shame for the President, Minister, that using the institution of an emergency complaint, so important for many people to pursue his rights, he decided in an absolutely profound manner to politicalize the Supreme Court? Isn't it embarrassing for the President that he treated the institution of an emergency complaint as a fig leaf for the disgusting changes that he has made to the Supreme Court? No one has any doubt that this is the real purpose of this project. Isn't Mr. President, Minister, just so humanly ashamed? And, in turn, to the Minister, to the government, I have a question about funding. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the Ombudsman's Office. If it is true that Poles use this institution in mass as part of the Ombudsman's actions, does the government intend to strengthen the Ombudsman's office financially as well? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u38	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Aleksander Mishalski from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u39	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The project is already the 11th version of the Supreme Court Act and, of course, the next step towards the politicisation of justice. If this law enters into force, then the Presidents of the Chambers will be able to choose 1/3 of the number of judges, which, of course, opens the way for the neo-KRS nominates to choose them. But in case you fail to choose a judge in this way, of course, there's a way in which the president will point to the acting president. It is obviously a clear violation of the separation of politics from the judiciary, because it will allow the President to influence the work of the Supreme Court. In addition, since you have succeeded in placing Mr Ziobra's colleague as president, you now want to enable her to set up her own formations in the most important matters for the citizens. What's more, what matters will be decided will be decided by the president again. It's not only ridiculous, but it's very dangerous, because these things are going to be about the most important legal doubts, and the solutions are going to be again. [[♪ The bell ♪]] according to your political will. I ask: Which freedoms and rights do you still want to deprive citizens of, that you need another machine after the Constitutional Court to issue judgments on a political order? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u40	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Dolniak, Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition, will ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Not long ago, you changed the quorum for the election of the first President of the Supreme Court. There were arguments from this speaker that the quorum given was very good and would allow the first President of the Supreme Court to be chosen in a proper manner. Today, in a relatively short period of time, you are changing the amount of this quorum. What were the motivations behind this change? Isn't it at the same height as 1/3 to make sure that you're the first president of the Supreme Court of the person you're gonna appoint in the cockroaches? How is it possible that from this speaker, as a flagship slogan for judicial reform, you indicate that it is appropriate to assign cases on a random basis rather than manipulation in the form of manual designation, and here, please, the statement that the first President of the Supreme Court will be able to appoint a temporary composition in the cases initiated by him? Please say: What are the rules? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are they gonna run this thing? And the jury? What is the motivation to extend the term of office of the present jury? All these questions, you can say, are rhetorical, but we would like to hear from this speaker what the arguments are. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u42	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u43	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Art. 10 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland states that its system is based on the division and balance of the legislative, executive and judicial authority. Today we are proceeding on the 11th draft law on amending the Law on the Supreme Court. Once again, with this project, the government, the President, is trying to subdue and take over the judiciary in Poland. First it was the Constitutional Court, now the Supreme Court. The President personally wishes to appoint the presidents of each Chamber in the Supreme Court. The first President of the Supreme Court is to have unlimited authority to determine which judge will receive the case. I ask the High House, most of it, to remember. The bill, the Senate project shows that a compromise can be found, you can find full support for changes, but these changes must not lead to the politicisation of the (Dawn) judiciary in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u44	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I invite you to the office of the President of the Republic of Poland Minister Małgorzata Paprocka. Minister, five minutes. I'll try to fit in, Marshal. I'll turn on half a minute before that light to help you, okay? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u45	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the time frame, you will allow us to address key issues. I'm gonna start with an emergency complaint, because it's a key issue in this project. The question was why there is no involvement of the President's Office in filing an emergency complaint. The President's office, in accordance with the Art. 143 of the Constitution is a supporting body of the President. And this kind of privilege simply cannot be attributed to the firm. But because of that... Mr Kownacki also asked about the issue of the complaint. I wanted to make a declaration to you on behalf of the President that there will be a very wide public debate in March, probably with the participation of the Supreme Court, the legal environments, but also representatives of all the authorities - I would also like to invite you to the legislative authority - to further discuss how to extend the emergency complaint, in addition to this point change proposed by the President in the draft. And for such a debate, I'm sure in March you will be invited by the President to the President's Palace. There have been a lot of criticisms about changes to the rules on the election of the President of the Supreme Court. Ladies and gentlemen, the basic point is that the reference to the Article does not change in any way. 12 § 2. The first and basic procedure for the election of the President of the Supreme Court shall be six weeks before the end of his term of office and there shall be no change in this respect. Please note that last year the election of candidates for the President of the Chamber in the Criminal Chamber was made and the election of the President of the Criminal Chamber was carried out in this manner. The President's proposal is a kind of safety valve, in case the President of the Chamber cannot be elected as a primary one, so the dywags about nominations are not justified at all, all the more so because, please be careful, even if there is a situation... And the gradation looks like this: the first basic mode - art. 12 § 2, then there is the question of quorum and then there is the identification by the President of the President. What is the role of this person? Convening an assembly of the chamber, it's about carrying it out. That's not true. Yeah, it's a time frame. But there are deadlines, ladies and gentlemen. There's no limit... The reference is based on the timing of individual assemblies. Don't lie to me. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is absolutely and precisely in the regulations by means of specific references. The next case, ladies and gentlemen, is that the question of how outrageous it is to be seen that the first president will manipulate the assemblies. He manipulated the stacks. What exactly is this for defining the actions of the first Supreme Court President? Look at this. System... Ladies and gentlemen, the President's proposal relates only to abstract resolutions, yes, from the request of the first president... There are no abstracts. On the other hand, the second situation is the resolutions taken by the full composition of the Supreme Court - so what would be the role of the President here? - or through connected chambers, so we also go beyond the President of a particular Chamber. In addition, these are resolutions from the proposals of the eligible entities. You're asking about the criterion. The criterion is one. The most difficult substantive matters are being brought to the Supreme Court, so the criterion is purely substantive, isn't it? But where does it say that? Ladies and gentlemen, there were also questions about the jury. I'm almost done, Marshal, last thread. Better get going. Why was there a proposal to extend the jury's term of office for a year? The transitional provision provides for the end of the jury's term of office on 31 December of this year. The President's proposal is to extend by 1 year. It's the new Senate. But there's no offence beyond the Senate term. And next year... This issue is only related to the fact that, first, the taking of the jury's vows was delayed, second, ladies and gentlemen, there were certain amounts of force, resources to prepare these jurors for the performance of their duties. They are ruling for a real year and a half, so I do not hide that this proposal is, which in the explanatory memorandum is underlined, also connected with the pandemic situation and the real possibilities for these elections. In the snow. Let me only answer Mr Kownacki's question as to whether an emergency complaint restricts rights. Absolutely not. This is an additional measure, which can also be brought in the event that the cassation or cassation complaint has been identified in the case. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u46	Thank you for your reply. Thank you for your vote, Minister. Senator Lydia Staron, please. Senator, here you go, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Very briefly. As for our printing, the Senate printing, we were supposed to say, other, bigger amendments. This involved the action of the complaint. On the one hand, it should be so that this action should go to the Supreme Court, e.g. - this is the first way - through a lawyer, so we have this project ready, but there are costs, or on the other hand it should be so that there are more intermediaries, of course, because we see how many of these requests are. But the deadline is, so to speak, very short, which is why our decision is that there is only one provision, because on 3 April the deadline for lodging an emergency complaint in respect of judgments which were final until 2018. That's why we did it. That's the first thing. As far as the other options are concerned, that's what we're gonna talk about, we have good projects. On the other hand, there was also a question about this avalanche of requests and the identification of these requests on the one hand by the Ombudsman and on the other hand by the prosecutor's office. I don't know why it is, because actually the number of these requests is similar. Here on the one hand is exactly - so quickly, because I do not want to go into details - 8198 requests dealt with by the Ombudsman and almost 9 thousand. By the D.A.'s office. Why is it that on the one hand these identified requests, the applications are 1500, as far as the Ombudsman is concerned, that is to say, there are almost 7 thousand. applications, requests, and, on the other hand, as far as the prosecution is concerned, only 1 000 requests have already been identified.? I don't know why that is. Of course, I don't think it's just a matter of money, but that's what you have to ask the spokesperson. The conclusion for us is that this term must be longer precisely because there are people on this side, their harm, their tragedy. After all, we know that these various kinds of sentences are very often unfortunately They're grossly violating the law or... There are three circumstances with regard to the emergency complaint. We know that it is because if there is an action before the Supreme Court, then some of these complaints are justified and it is, so to speak, an open way to justice, which is why we are fighting for it. Looking at the situation that is today, and looking at the fact that in the case of an emergency complaint, the deadline for these older judgments is very short, faster, I asked that these prints be identified separately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u48	Thank you very much. I request the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Minister Michał Wosia. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u49	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! You will allow the marshal to begin by expressing his deep concern or surprise at the failure of your marshal's reaction to the act absolutely, one can say, contrary to the High House, lack of culture, Mr. Marshal... Minister, I would like to tell you that there is a Marshal of the Sejm from speaking and paying attention in the Seym. You can pay attention to yourself in your own ministry. Ad rem, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Woś: Mr. Marshal, I can express my concern, and that's what I'm talking about when one of the messengers in the middle of... Please ad rem, or I'll turn you off. Do you hear me? Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Woś: Mr. Marshal, I hear and answer. You're not answering right now. Either you start talking or we'll thank you. There you go. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Woś: Thank you, Marshal. The President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Marshal, should be referred to as the President of the Republic of Andrzej Duda, and not just use the name Duda, like Mrs Duda. I'm telling you again, you can pay attention to the ministry, not the Sejm. In the Seym he draws the attention of the Marshal of the Seym. [[Applause]] Are you going to cut to the chase, or are you just going to show off? Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Woś: Mr. Marshal, I am speaking with respect and respect for the President of the Lightest Republic. Everyone has respect for the President. Get to the point. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Woś: Lublin-West District Court. 7,000. loans, 30,000. return, as Mr Kanthak said. And the court sanctioned this lawless, illegal usury. Ladies and gentlemen, Elbląg District Court. Legally, the court deprives the right of residence of persons under the life sentence contract they had. District Court in Kielce. Twice in succession. Judgment, court order twice in the same succession case. Ladies and gentlemen! The institution of the emergency complaint. That's what we've been talking about many times today. These thousands of cases, in these cases, show the scale of lawlessness that we have unfortunately dealt with. This is precisely what an emergency complaint is used to correct or eliminate these absolutely wrong decisions from legal trading. Ladies and gentlemen! The Ministry of Justice has given an opinion, the government has welcomed the proposals of both the Upper House and the President to extend the possibility of an emergency complaint from 3 to 5 years. This is, of course, related to the state of the epidemic. This is absolutely the right thing to do. At the same time, it must be noted and noted that thanks to this project, thanks to this legislative initiative, which the Senate has taken, we have a resolution in law stating de facto that the emergency control chamber is needed for Poles. In 2018, it was widely questioned by the opposition, but these years showed that there is demand, there is need, it is needed for Poles. Something that was questioned now finds recognition of the upper chamber of parliament. This resolution was actually taken without opposition by 98 senators, as Mrs Lydia Staron mentioned. And thank you very much for your reflection. Thank you very much for the fact that, indeed, the Upper House, the Senate, considered that an emergency complaint and an emergency control chamber that dealt with these exceptional complaints were needed. I'll make a brief reference to the statistics. Indeed, more than 8600 cases - National Public Prosecutor's Office, 8198 - Ombudsman. 230 cases were filed with the D.A.'s office, 40 from the ombudsman. On the other hand, there were 7600 substantively decided in the prosecutor's office, and in the case of the ombudsman - about 1500. Questions have been raised as to what this is coming from. Members pointed out that the scale in terms of the number of posts is similar. At the D.A.'s office, a few people deal with an emergency complaint. In the case of the Ombudsman there are 300 posts, as Mr Jan Kanthak spoke today. Is there really a shortage of these few jobs to help citizens in this regard? There was a question to the government about the scope of the funding. Here, I regret to say that budgeting is the responsibility of the Upper House. Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister of Justice welcomes the extension of the deadline for lodging an emergency complaint from 3 to 5 years. With regard to the other proposals made by the President (the bell), which are of a more precise, ordering nature, relating to the organisation, there is no reason to raise objections to them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u50	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. A request for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print No 935 was made in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the draft law amending the Law on the Supreme Court, contained in print No 951, to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Marshal of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm be based on the article. 39 (1) (a) 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm have set a time limit for the submission of a report to the committee to be examined at the current sitting of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the law - Law on road traffic and some other laws (print No. 911). I kindly ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Minister Rafał Weber to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u51	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law amending the Act - Road Traffic Law, which is included in print No 911, regulates the mobility of scooters and other personal transport equipment electrically driven. In the streets of big cities, especially when it is weathering, this has been happening in particular for 2 years, we are dealing with a large number of people who use e-Hulajnog. At the moment, there are no rules to determine how and where you can drive an electric scooter. This state of affairs causes uncontrolled behaviour of users of these devices, behaviours that are very often dangerous for other road users, especially pedestrians. Therefore, the primary objective of the Ministry of Infrastructure in the work on this law is to ensure the safety of pedestrians, to make pedestrians feel safe on the sidewalks and to be sure that they have the right to free, unfettered, unlimited use of pavements. It is the user of e-hulaipodi who will be obliged by the provisions of this law to comply with certain behaviours, he will have to adapt to them. On the other hand, the second objective is to allow users of electric scooters to use them freely, but under certain conditions. We want to achieve these goals, qualifying e-hulaipods, as well as other electrically driven devices as vehicles. This is a fundamental issue, because the driver of the vehicle must have strict obligations, and a number of prohibitions affect it, e.g. No alcohol-driving, no clinging to other vehicles while driving, no two-person driving on one scooter, no leaving the vehicle in an unauthorised place or no use by persons under 10 years of age. Another important change is the definition of infrastructure on which electric scooters can be used. In the first place they are cycle paths, in the second place it is a road on which the maximum permissible speed is 30 km/h, and in the third place it is a pavement, but provided that the place and priority of the pedestrian is given and provided that the speed is close to the pedestrian speed. In our proposal, in our bill we share, we also show devices powered electronically, we divide devices powered electronically into e-hulaipods and personal transport devices. Personal transport devices are e-skateboards, e.g. self-leveling devices. This second category of vehicles is excluded from driving on the road, for them bicycle paths and sidewalks are reserved. The Act allows the use of both electric scooters and personal transport equipment for persons between 10 and 18 years of age, but provided that they have a bicycle card, the same provision exists for cyclists and determines the maximum speed of driving of these vehicles, i.e. 20 km/h. The bill was very strongly and very thoroughly consulted with many environments. It is worth mentioning that a positive opinion on the project in this shape was issued by a joint committee of government and local government. This means that local government officials, especially large cities, those cities in which electric scooters are used, renting them, i.e. using them directly on the street, have adopted these regulations with some relief, consider these regulations to be good, appropriate, beneficial ones, which on the one hand will secure pedestrians and on the other hand will allow the use of electric scooters. We see great interest, especially in the young part of Polish society, [[♪ The bell ♪]] this means of transport, so we do not limit this possibility, and we create the conditions for using e-Hulajnog and other personal transport facilities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u52	Thank you very much, Minister. As a result, I'll be able to ride a scooter for work soon enough. Ladies and gentlemen, the Sejm has agreed that in the discussion on this item it will hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I cordially invite Mr Peter King from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u53	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I think I'm not the only one who's imagining your marshal on this scooter right now. Let spring come as soon as possible. It will be a beautiful sight, sir, indeed. The breaker was curious. Mr. Marshal... Don't run, just drive safely, safely. Yes, we wish all users to use these devices safely. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of our club regarding print no.911, i.e. the draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws. The purpose of the government's draft law - Road traffic law and some other laws is to improve pedestrian safety by regulating the legal status of electrically powered equipment and muscle-powered equipment which are intended to move on public roads. Up to now, the legal status of electrically powered equipment and muscle-powered equipment has remained unregulated, creating a real threat to the safety of both pedestrians and users of these devices using sidewalks and roadways. The law provided a pedestrian's preference to electric scooters, personal transport equipment and traffic support devices, which move in part of the infrastructure intended for pedestrian traffic, will oblige the drivers of these vehicles and devices, among other things, to give priority to pedestrians, not hinder them, and secondly, to drive at a speed close to pedestrian speed and, thirdly, to take special care. The proposed solutions are intended in particular to ensure the protection of pedestrians on pavements or pedestrian roads. The bill, first of all, defines the concept of electric scooter separately as an electric, two-axis, steering wheel, without seat and pedals, second, defines personal transport devices, among others. such as electric skateboards, electric self-leveling devices, thirdly, also defines motion aids, i.e. rollers, roller skates and skateboards. At the same time, the proposed law introduces a new type of infringement in the law - Code of Offences. Therefore, the control authorities will be able to impose a fine for travelling by a sidewalk or a pedestrian road as indicated above at a speed greater than the speed close to pedestrian speed or not giving priority to pedestrians. The driving of an electric scooter or a personal transport device by persons aged between 10 and 18 years will require the same rights as for cycling: a bicycle card or a driving licence of categories AM, A1, B1 or T. In the case of persons aged 18 years or over, such a document shall not be required. On the other hand, moving with a muscle-powered motor will not require any additional rights and will be allowed without age restrictions. In addition, the draft law introduces regulations which prohibit, among others. driving an electric scooter or a personal transport device to a person in a state of drunkenness or in a state of drinking alcohol or a medium acting like alcohol, carrying an electric scooter or a personal transport device of other persons, animals and objects, drawing or towing an electric scooter or a personal transport device of other vehicles, or leaving an electric scooter or a personal transport device on the sidewalk, other than a designated place, other than in parallel to its outer edge. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Gentlemen of Ministers! I would like to inform you that Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support this bill in the further course of Parliament's work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u54	Thank you kindly, sir. I invite Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. I was just wondering who would represent the Civic Coalition, and I was thinking that you were. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u55	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The rules on electric scooters have long been in need of order. This is a problem especially in larger cities, where this mode of transport has become extremely popular in recent years thanks to commercial rentals. The legal situation so far was unclear, many regulations simply did not exist, and some courts treated electric scooters as mopeds. Usually, however, in our cities scooters ride on the sidewalks without restrictions. This endangers not only scooters, but also all participants in the movement. No one disputes that the Road Traffic Law requires amendments to take account of this mode of transport, but any changes should be made with head, especially when they concern an area on which our life and health depend. However, the regulations proposed by the government are so vague and illegible that if they are not corrected, they will not only not solve the problems they have already faced, but they will also create further ones. The bill introduces two new categories of vehicles: electric scooters and personal transport equipment. Interestingly, personal transport equipment was invented primarily to regulate electric scooters, but the government created a definition of them that excludes scooters. This shows how chaotic the law is. After the changes, the electric scooters are to move on the bike roads. If there is no such road, they shall be required to drive on the road provided that the maximum permitted speed does not exceed 30 km/h. When the speed is higher, then they're supposed to drive sidewalks. In practice, this means that in very many places, wherever there are no roads for bicycles, and the permitted speed is higher than 30 km/h, scooters will continue to ride on the sidewalks, so they will put all pedestrians at risk. Theoretically, the scooter driver should drive on the sidewalk at the speed of a pedestrian, but we know that with this state of enforcement in our country it will be fiction. On the other hand, personal transport devices, i.e. electric skateboards or segwayes, will move on the roads for bicycles, and in case they are not on the sidewalks. Minister, why is there no road for bicycles on the street, and the permissible speed exceeds 30 km/h, the child riding the bike is obliged to drive the road, and the man on the scooter or the segway will ride the sidewalk? That's absurd. However, the legislators went one step further and added motion aids to the project. Let's see what is the definition proposed in the Act: a sports-recreational device or equipment designed to move a person in a standing position, driven by muscle strength. That's all, just a few words. The definition is imprecise enough to include motion-enhancing devices, for example. Nordic walking sticks, senior balcony, baby walker or stilt. This definition even includes running shoes. That's a very good idea. The Minister is laughing, but I don't think the road safety issue is funny at all. As a result, to the previous two categories of traffic participants known from the road code, i.e. pedestrian and driver, the user of the traffic support device was suddenly added. Such a user will be able to choose, decide whether to move on the sidewalk or on the way for bicycles. This freedom provided for in the draft law is astonishing and may cause many difficulties in enforcing the rules. Drivers of vehicles must comply with road signs, and according to the draft law, users of traffic aids are not in force for almost nothing. On the bike road, they won't have to. signal the intention to turn and even have lights at night. This is a serious problem. Minister, why (The bell) - last sentence - an 8-year-old child riding a bike under adult care cannot use the bicycle road and must ride the sidewalk, but the same child on roller skates or scooter will be able to move on the way on the bike? On behalf of the Civic Coalition, I recommend that the project be directed towards further work in the Committee on Infrastructure. Further support depends on the work on the bill. I call for the removal of entirely absurd rules on motion-enhancing devices and for the elimination of the division into electric scooters and personal transport devices. The traffic of these devices should be regulated by the same traffic regulations as today on bicycles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u56	Thank you, sir. I invite Mrs Karolina Pavlichak, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u57	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! First of all, the question is why it's so late. She's been growing up for a long time. because there is a great need for legal regulation and changes in road traffic law regarding the status of traffic aids, electric scooters and other personal transport equipment. Already at the beginning of 2019 this law was to be amended and to this day we have not received an answer in total why this legislative process has lasted for so long - over 2 years. The lack of such important regulations posed a real and very serious threat to road and pavement safety. How many people must have suffered before it was finally thought that it was time to settle this very important matter? Statistics show that accidents on scooters, including very difficult scooters, may even be a few dozen people a month. Social expectations also grew when on roads, bike paths whether there have been dangerous accidents on the sidewalks involving the drivers of this electrical equipment. It is therefore good that the legislative process is finally beginning to address these issues, although the proposed provisions are not ideal. Unfortunately, this is not the first time that the state has failed to keep up with the novelties of public life, and legislation has fallen behind technology. Fortunately, we have local governments that, in situations where the state can't keep up, can always be counted on, local governments who have taken matters into their own hands and are doing the best they can by ordering this legislative chaos. It is worth paying attention here to the so-called. abandoned scooters waiting for another user. It is not only an aesthetic problem, but, above all, it has an adverse impact on the safety of all road users in a broad sense. Many cities in Poland have decided to take concrete steps for the safety of pedestrians and users of these devices - scooters and other personal transport devices left on public pavements, bike paths or greens were treated as abandoned property according to the regulations in force. Consequently, their fixed owners were called upon to collect the equipment and to pay the administrative fee. In many Polish towns it was also decided to organise special parking lots for scooters, i.e. places where it will be safe to leave this type of vehicle. At the moment, the scooters' parking spaces are separated and drawn by a line of space on the sidewalks. An example of legal mess in these cases was also situations where the scooter clearly contributed to the collision, and it was difficult already at the stage of a possible mandate to indicate whether the rules on bicycles, motorbikes or perhaps others should be applied here. Even if the case was brought to court, this did not always mean a uniform caselaw in this respect, because there were no specific rules which would indicate how to see electric scooters in the light of the law. In addition, operators leaving scooters in different places did so without the consent of the road manager. Following such observations, the City Road Administration issued an official position to the Minister of Infrastructure on the regulation of electric scooters rental. The aim is that the scooter's hirer is obliged to conclude a contract with the road manager, which will regulate their activities in public space. What the Ministry's reaction was, we still don't know. Although the draft law introduces an obligation to leave the electric scooter on the sidewalk in the road manager's designated area, in the absence of such a place, it will only be possible to leave the vehicle on the sidewalk while fulfilling certain conditions, this issue requires more transparent and precise regulation in our assessment. It should also be very serious to consider whether the minimum age of children using electric scooters should not be increased - instead of 10, up to 12 years old, even under the care of adults, because surely you should not be compared on this device to cycling. NGOs have also requested this. I believe we will hold such a discussion at the next meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure. To sum up, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The left will support this long-awaited bill as part of the amendments tabled in the name of road safety for both pedestrians and users of all personal transport equipment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u58	Thank you very much, madam. I invite Mr Stefan Krajewski, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u59	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL, UED, Conservatives regarding the government bill amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws, print No. 911. The proposed provisions introduce into the Law of 20 June 1997 - Road traffic law, hereinafter referred to as the Law on Road Traffic, solutions aimed at ordering the movement of electric scooters, personal transport equipment such as. electric skateboards, self-leveling electrical devices, etc., and motion-enhancing devices such as Rolls, roller skates, skateboards, scooters, muscle driven, public roads, residential areas and traffic zones. The current design, in the absence of a road for bicycles, forces the use of the pavement at pedestrian speed and, in the absence of both the road for bicycles and the sidewalk, allows for driving by road, but only if the permissible speed for vehicles does not exceed 30 km/h. And that's probably good and logical, just not everywhere, because, Minister, dear rulers, you said so much that the predecessors lived only what was happening in the big cities, they didn't live what was going on outside this city. Here we have a problem, because in many places where there is no sidewalk or bicycle road, the participant cannot move such a scooter. How is this electric scooter different from a bicycle or an increasingly used electric bicycle? Because that's what the people of our country do, too. This should be harmonised and checked at this point. Another thing is the speed we're talking about, the speed that's supposed to be similar to the speed that a pedestrian moves at. Why would these scooters be invented? Just to cut back on time. And here we must not relieve ourselves of the obligation, first of all from the principle of limited trust, but also foresight, guarding this ride, not being distracted, but, on the other hand, if we introduce it, these scooters will cause that at the same speed as pedestrians, everyone will move. That is something to be said and that is something to be considered. These bike paths are still too few, but also the roads we are talking about do not always have the perfect surface and sometimes it is better to choose a sidewalk, which is not often visited, because we are also dealing with sidewalks, as in Warsaw near very busy roads, where this traffic is really big, and we are dealing with sidewalks where it moves from several to several people during the day. And here sometimes... [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me, sir, for a moment. Members of the Civic Coalition. I have a favor to ask of you. As Mr. Sterczewski spoke on your behalf, we cared for silence. We've got scooters on fire, Mr. Marshal. Yeah, but, you know, it's not funny for you to refer to it right now. Please. Please, sir. Sorry to interrupt. That is why, when planning these new rules - I will, of course, agree with the Member who said that we have been waiting a long time for this, and everyone expects this security to improve on every road, on every sidewalk, on every bicycle path - I would like us to do so wisely and in common sense, because we are going to introduce such rules that we cannot really enforce later in any way, not to comply with them. That's where the issues of punishment arose. Of course, these mandates should also be imposed in line with the offence, because I think that scooters are most often moved by young people, often underage young people, and these penalties will, of course, be passed on to parents, to carers, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who will have to pay them. Of course, we will be in favour of directing this bill to work in committees, but we will also propose our amendments and, of course, make the support of this bill conditional on what is finally in the shape of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u60	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jakub Kulesza from the Wheel of the Posel Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u61	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Did anyone from the Ministry who was responsible for this project ever drive small electric vehicles? I feel like I'm not... Bad impression. ...because this project prepared for almost two years looks worse than the original project. It's just bullshit. This morning I left the apartment, had 10 minutes to the Senior Convention, 729 meters, I said, "I can't make it on foot, I got on a scooter, I drove." When there was a wide sidewalk, I was driving 25 km/h as I approached the narrowing or passing the pedestrians, I was slowing down to 10 km/h. It's hard to pass a pedestrian by slowing down to a pedestrian's speed. You have to drive a little faster to get ahead of him. I arrived in the Sejm in 4 minutes 16 seconds, passed Mr Sterczewski yet, did not run him down by any means, and it turned out that on average with unlocking, blocking I drove 10 km/h. There is no cycle path between the apartment and the Seym, and there is no road with a speed of up to 30 km/h. The only way to get through this section is by the sidewalk, of course, by adjusting the speed to the conditions on the sidewalk, how you can drive. Ladies and gentlemen! If I were to drive in accordance with the regulations of this project, not to break the law, not to get a ticket, I would have to go - attention - at a pedestrian speed, i.e. from 2 to 5 km/h. It would have gone completely wrong, because if I had to drive at the speed of a pedestrian, then why would I take a scooter, it's better to walk. This is why small electric vehicles, called personal transport devices in this project, are used to move faster. What's positive about this project is adding paths and bike lanes. Great, but why are you limiting the speed on these lanes and lanes to 20 km/h? In the project presented 2 years ago it was 25 km/h. It wasn't enough anyway. After all, such vehicles can often move much faster than bicycles, and bikes travel faster than 20 or 25 km/h. There are no restrictions here. Similarly, if we have an empty cycle path, nothing goes, nothing stops us from going 25, 30 or 35 km/h. Another thing is to limit it to roads with a limit of 30 km/h. Bicycles can ride on roads where there is a limit of 50 km/h and should be possible for these small vehicles as far as possible. Such vehicles can be moved no worse than bikes, as I was just talking about. And already limiting age, so that these vehicles can be moved, as you are more than 10 years old, as the Left proposes - over 12 years old, this is already a scandal. Very often these are devices in the form of toys, often have a speed limit. These smaller devices drive slower and prevent small, younger citizens, under 10 or 12 years of age, from moving these devices is some confusion of concepts. Do you also want to prevent young cyclists from moving their bikes? Oh, no. Then what's the consequence? I really encourage you to drive such an electric vehicle, to move from one point to another in Warsaw. I would like to see the Minister and the Deputy Minister move in accordance with the proposed rules. I'm afraid that would be very difficult, if not impossible at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u62	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Robert Winnicki. There won't be an envoy. Well, in that case, I would like to invite Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Circle of Poselskie Poland 2050. I've learned.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u63	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will present the position of the Circle of Poselski Polska 2050 on the draft law amending the law - Law on road traffic and some other laws. Poland 2050 takes the view that the situation of electric scooters, personal transport equipment and people moving on the road by means of muscle-powered equipment must be regulated as soon as possible for the good, health and life of all road users. Since these devices appeared on Polish streets, they have been treated as puppies: they have moved without restrictions on pavements and pedestrian roads, and for driving them under the influence of alcohol there has been no penalty. The inclusion of this last offence in the Code of Misdemeanors is the first of the solutions that Poland 2050 welcomes with great satisfaction. Poland 2050 also welcomes 20 km/h as the maximum speed for electric scooters and personal transport equipment. However, doubt is raised by a record limiting their speed on the sidewalk to a speed similar to that of a pedestrian. Although this speed is defined in the justification for about 7 km/h, it may be difficult to enforce this provision in the absence of a clear limitation in the text of the law itself. On the other hand, it is unclear whether the designer, when deciding on such a provision, consulted him with manufacturers or operators of technical equipment. We consulted them on this. For some devices such speed may simply not provide stable driving, and the only possibility will be to drive the device, not to drive at as low speeds as the one envisaged in this project. This is so much more important that the designer decided to let scooters on the sidewalks along the road, at which the permissible speed is more than 30 km/h. This means in practice that, contrary to the many opinions gathered in the consultation in most cities, scooters will continue to ride mostly on the sidewalks, so the rules must be very precise, respectful of pedestrian safety. The draft law creates a new concept, a concept of motion-enhancing devices and movers using them, whose movement is regulated in the same chapter as pedestrian traffic. However, the regulation is incomplete in relation to people who move with mobility aids. In the absence of a sidewalk or a pedestrian road or a pedestrian is not allowed to use the sidewalk, a pedestrian can use the roadway, but a person moving with a movement aid device cannot do so. The question of whether persons using the so-called "use" needs to be clarified first of all. UWR have the right to use the road when there is no road for pedestrians or bikes. It is also unclear whether people moving with UWR can create loudspeakers. Poland 2050, aware of the changes in the cities of Poland and Europe, which resulted in the spread of systems for renting electric scooters, accepts with great disapproval the fact that from the draft law there is no record of the conclusion of contracts with road managers by traffic operators. With such agreements, local authorities would have a real impact on the way equipment rentals operate in their cities, mainly electric scooters, and could identify financial and non-financial aspects of the operation of scooters operators and other equipment in a specific municipality. This is about regulating situations that are burdensome for residents and other users of traffic, e.g. regulating the fleet size and the maximum number of operators, parking zones with the possibility of excluding specific urban areas, such as cultural parks, the creation of sectors for operators using geofencing technology or the obligation of the operator to employ fleet service workers, as well as to receive autonomous city traffic data. It is also worth considering provisions obliging the operator to provide insurance for OC and NNW users of their equipment. If the designer does not choose to do so, the local government could require the operator to have such insurance in the agreement. Increasing the lower age limit for use of unattended electric scooters [[♪ The bell ♪]] and the UTO up to 14 years also seems reasonable. Therefore, Poland 2050 will seek amendments to this project, but in general we will support this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u64	Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for a minute. I invite Mr Paul Hreniak from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u65	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Today we are investigating an extremely important bill, expected. I think that each of us has observed many times the behavior of users of electric scooters. This strange behaviour was also very often due to the fact that, as the Minister mentioned, we had a legal gap and the user did not fully know how to behave in a given situation. Today we change this, we have a very good bill, a draft amendment to the Road Traffic Act, for which we thank you very much. But all traffic laws require some support, support in education, information campaigns. Here's my question: Will the Ministry take closer or very close cooperation with the Ministry of Education and with other institutions just to carry out a (Bell) promotional action informing about a change in behaviour on the road? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u66	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. I would like to invite you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u67	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft law governing movement on scooters is really important and responds to changes in the way of movement, cultural changes, and moral changes. However, I lacked the safety issue of both the scooter and the person who may be harmed by the users of this means of communication. Shouldn't we consider the need for scooters to wear helmets? According to my information, the biggest and heaviest injuries that occurred during the use of the scooter are head injuries. Another issue is the insurance of the scooter. There are known cases of severe injuries sustained by outsiders as a result of a scooter strike. Should not the scooter be subject to the same liability insurance obligations as the owner of motor vehicles? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u68	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u69	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, This is an important document that cleans up the safety of people on both public roads and on the sidewalks. However, I would like to ask about the legal regulations for children up to the age of 10. What does it look like when children use bikes outside the built-up area until they're 10 years old, and how do these regulations regulate the use of scooters? Second thing. We're talking about safety. What do police statistics so far show when it comes to accidents involving scooters? Have there also been fatal accidents? I'd like to ask for information, if not today, in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u70	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Dziambor, a parliamentary circle of the Confederation. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u71	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As we know, this bill is, of course, another bubble, a crazy rush to create further sharpenings, further restrictions, further regulations. I think that's standard. - there aren't many things left that you haven't regulated by laws. Now you're throwing yourself at something that looked like it so far - it was or should have been intact. I remember, about 5 or 6 years ago, we had a happening in Sopot because the president in Sopot thought that bikes would only be allowed to ride ten an hour. We collected dozens of cyclists and tried to drive ten per hour. You can't do that. My colleague, Mr Kulesz, has already pointed out here that these restrictions cannot be respected. But as we know, if something is fined, it's legal, it only has a price. I would therefore like to ask whether, in the course of legislative action, you already have certain amounts to be paid for the tickets (the bell) for exceeding these ridiculous speed limits and how they will be measured. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u72	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Paweł Rychlik, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u73	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today, you might say, Mr. Marshal had a bit of a fantasy when he said he was going to ride a scooter to the Sejm soon. Probably soon. Fantasy is a quality of intelligence, sir, and that's why I let go. Also, of course, I do not doubt it, but sadly we have to say that sometimes scooters let go of their fantasy and they simply create danger on the roads, above all the danger for pedestrians. On the one hand, I would like to ask you about statistics, Minister, about events involving scooters users. On the other hand, in the case of security, regulation is of course important, and in the case of safety, infrastructure is very important. Yesterday, ministers, the Prime Minister announced a roadmap for the development of road infrastructure (The Bell), among others. bike paths, hiking and biking. I would like to ask to what extent the implementation of this programme is envisaged as regards walking-bike lines. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u74	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Caesar Grabarczyk, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. It's in case someone doesn't know, but everybody knows it. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u75	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! There's progress. We have waited a little bit for this bill, but it gets a lot more positive feedback than the one previously submitted. However, there are reservations. I would not dismiss the comments made by the great expert on urban movements by Mr Franciszek Sterczewski. Representatives of these movements pay attention to certain details, among others. concerning the stopping of these devices. You have offered to stop a bike, scooter or personal transport device on the sidewalk or in a place designed for it, and in the absence of such a place (the Bell) as close as possible to the outer edge of the sidewalk away from the road, but this is a very dangerous solution for the dark, blind people. This is worth taking into account because the associations paid attention to it. Thank you. [[Applause]] It's already been agreed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u76	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u77	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! I would like to ask if the Ministry is planning to create separate legislation on bicycles and separate vehicles for a whole range of other vehicles which are not defined as bicycles. Should the road rules be determined by whether or not the driver does it move standing or sitting, or is it, is the basic drive muscle force or electricity? From a safety point of view, is the electric scooter so different from the electric bike that it requires a separate grade in the bill? After all, perhaps in a year or two, another device will be created, which will be given a different name, and once again it will not fall within the scope of this regulation. Therefore, would it not be better to clarify the definition of equipment in which bicycles are also included and update this in line with existing traffic regulations? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask you kindly to answer in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u78	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Piotr Uruski from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Are you an MP? I'm here. Great. I'm sorry. I didn't see you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u79	Dear Marshal, Dear Ministers! The current legal situation does not specify the traffic rules to which the person moving an electric scooter or a personal transport device on public roads, residential areas and traffic zones should apply. I have questions about that. Will the proposed rules address the concerns of users of electric scooters, personal transport equipment and traffic aids regarding the availability of these public road infrastructure facilities? And second question: Will the proposed legislation contribute to ensuring greater safety for road users? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u80	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Michael Szczerba, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u81	Dear Marshal, Better late than never. I have correspondence with the City Hall of Warsaw and the Municipal Road Administration, which since mid- 2019 have asked where the project is. The project is, but there are still many questions. Ladies and gentlemen! Poles, especially young Poles, have liked micromobility and expect national authorities and local authorities to support this transport option, which is particularly popular at short distances and contributes to reducing traffic congestion as well as reducing urban air pollution. On the other hand, I have the impression, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, that there are too many mushrooms in the borscht in this bill. Of course, the regulation of electric scooters and other personal transport equipment is very important, but the state is really outside of consulting the local government. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You have extended this amendment to the issue of motion-enhancing devices. I would like to ask what comments from the local government have been granted and what comments, in particular as regards the possibility of adapting this movement to certain circumstances, have not been taken into account. This case needs to be resolved in the course of the committee's work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u82	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Przemysław Koperski from the parliamentary club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u83	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I love cycling - most of you too - and I think that for everyone improving the safety of pedestrians and bicycle users, scooters, skateboards and other devices is an absolute priority. However, one cannot ignore the common sense right of people who use roads, i.e. drivers and pedestrians or cyclists, to move safely, that is separate, separate from one another, roads. What's missing in the bill is about money. We need funding for infrastructure to improve the safety of traffic participants. That is why I ask, Minister, whether there will be a national bike-track fund in Poland and when. Is there any chance that it's going to be as much as it's going to be? grant for TVP - 2 billion PLN per year - broken down by 2477 municipalities? This should allow for a real increase in the safety of road users. Packing drivers, pedestrians, cyclists, all together on one and the same roads, will not save life and health [[♪ The bell ♪]] 25,000. victims of road accidents per year. Real change is not a change of legislation, it is a change of road infrastructure. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u84	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Ewa Kozanecka from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u85	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! The proposed provisions of the Act - Road traffic law are provisions that are long-awaited and important. We hope that they will be introduced as soon as possible, as they contain solutions to organize the movement of electric scooters, personal transport equipment and devices to assist traffic on public roads in residential areas and traffic zones. I have a question for the ministers. How will the proposed amendments affect the safety of vulnerable road users and scooters and other equipment users? Have social expectations been taken into account especially in large urban agglomerations? And the question that's already been asked. What will the information action look like after the introduction of the new rules? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u86	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mirosław Suchuni from the Parliamentary Club the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u87	Thank you kindly. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, there is a problem and it needs to be solved. Too bad it took so long. On the other hand, this project will require an in-depth discussion. Minister, I have two questions for him. The first question concerns the possibility of travelling in non-urban areas, which, due to the fact that large infrastructure is not being built there, are often deprived of the pavement, not to mention bicycle paths. Therefore, the question is: Are users, in principle young people, who use electric scooters to get to school in suburban, extra-urban areas - most often we see it in cities, but scooters are also used outside urban areas, it becomes a standard - they will be able, where there is no sidewalk, where there is only one road, on which everyone moves, to go on scooters [[♪ The bell ♪]] electric to school and come home with her? Second question. Minister, I would like to ask you very much if the Minister were so kind as to explain exactly how much speed is close to pedestrian speed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u88	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Michael Grammar from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u89	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the impression that the authors of this law have lost touch with reality in the regulatory uplift. This applies at least to some points. If I live in extra-urban areas, in rural areas, I will ride my bike to school or work, but not on my private electric scooter. It was stated in the explanatory memorandum that the possibility of running a scooter on the road was limited due to the construction of this vehicle and less stability of the person driving it. Let me remind you that bicycles were almost completely excluded in the 1920s based on similar arguments from English roads. Their instability threatened horses, horse carriages, and the cars of that time. Not everywhere in Poland there are equal walkways and bike paths. I'm joining my previous speaker's question about a speed close to pedestrian speed. I have another question about the bill. When is the sound signal scary and when is it not scary? How will you determine the degree of terror? The scooter shall be equipped with an audible signal which shall not be terrifying. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u90	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u91	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, the changes are necessary, but the proposals you have made are quite chaotic. Firstly, the definition of supporting devices is very vague. This has been quoted. It is a sports-recreational device or equipment designed to move a person in a standing position, driven by muscle strength. As Mr Sterczewski said, this is absurd. They could be stilts, sticks, they could even be sports shoes. In addition, users of this type of equipment shall not have the status of driver or pedestrian. Then what rules should they use? Why isn't that clear? The definition of scooter is also imprecise. It doesn't specify the masses, dimensions, or dimensions. If we consider the obligation to use bicycle roads, it can cause specific paralysis. It's not exactly defined how these people are supposed to signal a turn. It should be borne in mind that for some devices, it may be dangerous to signal a turn by hand. Question. Can we not accept one precise definition of personal transport equipment [[♪ The bell ♪]] without unnecessary separation of them into scooters and support devices? This will make the movement of devices of a new type clearly regulated and will not need to be amended when any new device appears. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u92	Thank you, sir. I invite Mrs Henryka Krzywonos-Strycharska, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A person moving by means of a device to support the movement of the bike paths will create danger when it is not clearly visible. That's forgotten. Why are there no clear requirements for people on the bike path? Who's gonna be on the bike path? Traffic aids are also electrically assisted walkers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u94	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is very good that this bill was present today at the Sejm meeting, it is good that we are talking about it, although it would be better if we started discussing this problem earlier. Of course, the world is changing. We have probably the biggest number of cars in history, we have new bike paths, more and more, but still not enough, we have scooters, we have a bike fashion. And these are very good things. This law is intended not only for road safety, but also for road and pavement safety. Minister! This law needs to be clarified, among others. age of persons who can use electrical equipment, speed, the possibility of driving on the sidewalk, but also what concerns those devices which relate to personal transport. I actually only have one request for you. Please take into account what is happening today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's being discussed. It seems that if we take these elements into account, but also the elements that local governments are talking about, we will be able to develop a good project for many years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u96	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Krzysztof Truskolas, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u97	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, this project is very important. After all, it is about our safety, the safety of pedestrians, also about the safety of people using electric scooters, but Minister, my basic question is: Why is it so late? Why not two years ago, 3 years ago, how these devices began to appear on our Polish roads? Since then, first of all, many people have been given tickets for driving, among others. on bike paths, and secondly, there were many accidents involving users, sometimes unskillly, with electric scooters. Minister! There is, of course, a huge problem when it comes to parking these devices. This should also be specified in more detail in the Act. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I also have a question about the use of these devices on the sidewalk: What speed will be allowed? We have to write it down specifically in the bill, because it's supposed to be a speed close to pedestrian speed, it's imprecise, because some pedestrians walk 2 km/h, some 5 km/h, some 10 km/h. That's why I would appeal to you to write that speed down specifically. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u98	Thank you very much. The list of Members to speak and the questions to be asked has been exhausted. Therefore, I ask very kindly the Minister of Infrastructure of Mr Andrzej Adamczyk to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank all those who have leaned over the bill in the last dozens of months in principle. Twice the public consultation brought us closer to the final shape of this project. Of course, you can say too late and I agree with that statement because you could always have done it before. Nevertheless - I do not know whether this form of justification is acceptable - I can say that we are the 15th country in the European Union that introduces these regulations. When we started working on the bill, we were the third country in the European Union, which had hopes, aspirations that we would have adopted this decision. It is not easy and it is not easy to accept decisions which are partly controversial, and in the second part the favor of all those who will familiarize themselves with this project. This can also be heard in this Parliament hall during the first reading of the bill. I could use some examples. In many countries of the European Union - in the old Union, in the new Union, if we introduce such a division - different decisions have been taken on this matter. I would like to warn all those who are very fond of the fact that they will be able, using an electric scooter, to ride the sidewalk, but with limited speed: let them look in Berlin and throughout Germany, in Paris and in all France, in Madrid, Spain, in other European countries. You can't ride a scooter on the sidewalk at all. These rules regulate all these issues there. I can say one thing: The High House is hosting this project today, it is the High Chamber and ladies and gentlemen who will decide which decisions will be adopted. Nothing stands in the way of making amendments to this bill that eliminates traffic on the sidewalks. Then we will collide with this in the parliamentary debate, we will also collide with this problem in the debate in public space around this project. Thank you very much to all those who have prepared this project. Thank you very much to Minister Rafał Weber, who has piloted this project for many months and has patiently led him and his team to the end. Thank you for the public consultation, thank you for your cooperation. If the marshal would allow, I would ask that Minister Weber be able to answer some of the questions of a fundamental nature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u100	Minister, first of all, thank you very much for speaking. Secondly, of course I will. I invite the Secretary of State to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Minister Rafał Weber. There you go. May I? Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will also complete my response on the regulation of this issue in other European countries, because the pioneers who adopted some regulations 2 or 3 years ago, adjusted them very quickly, changed them very quickly. Why? Because this is new matter. Electric scooters or other devices appear very quickly on the market, they have different parameters. This regulation is therefore very dynamic in other countries of the European Union. We took this project very seriously. We have listened very much to the voices of both the local government and the disabled environment - here is the answer to Minister Grabarczyk's question about why such and not another finding of the legal place of leaving electric scooters - as well as the environment of operators. I repeat: the joint committee of the government and the local government gave a positive opinion on this draft law, without any amendment, without paying attention to some strategic thing that needs to be changed. This means that we give local governments real tools to regulate the use of scooters, although there are already such regulations. As a rule, the vast majority of large cities with operators who rent scooters have signed agreements with them. The exception is one city. Do you know what it is? The capital city of Warsaw. Despite requests, despite appeals, despite the monits of the operators of these devices in Warsaw, Warsaw's capital city did not approach the signing of the contract and did not settle this issue. I encourage the President of Warsaw to do so. This will certainly make life easier for both pedestrians and all those who use electric scooters. Ladies and gentlemen! There were a lot of specific questions. Of course, I will refer to them at the committee meeting, which will soon be discussing this project. I encourage you to listen to all those who are interested in these regulations. It is a pity that I do not see one of the users - from what he said - of the electric scooters - in the room of Mr Jakub Kulesza. I admit it: I also used it. The Member is completely wrong about the speed at which you can move on the sidewalk. On the other hand, I will discuss these issues, as well as other issues, at the committee's meeting, and I will also count on the substantive arguments on your part. With regard to road infrastructure - because there were also voices here that we should support local authorities in modernising road infrastructure, including those related to cycling paths - of course we are doing this. Within the framework of the Government Road Development Fund, it is possible to modernise roadways, but also to - and these are the conclusions more scored, better scored - build safety-related elements in road traffic, including bicycle paths. For this purpose, together with the provision of general subsidies, we have nearly PLN 4 billion to spend this year, twice as much as on public television, although everything ahead of us - of course on this first issue, on the latter is rather settled. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the technical parameters of these devices are concerned, we deliberately removed them from the bill, because when new ones appear, we need to change the law. It's a time-consuming process too. We have removed these provisions to the regulation, the regulation is one of the annexes to this law. It's for inspection, and you can also refer to it. It will be processed as soon as the bill is adopted. Technical parameters such as length, width, weight are also set out in the Regulation. The regulation is easier to change when such devices appear on the Polish market. I would like to thank you for the discussion in this section, and of course for the next part, for the discussion at the committee meeting. I thank Minister Andrzej Adamczyk for taking personal care of this project. The Minister is very much involved in him. We derive from his experience, from his vast knowledge of this subject. I hope that, together, we will create provisions that will be compromise, that will ensure pedestrian safety, [[♪ The bell ♪]] but also allow the use of electric scooters. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u102	Thank you, Minister. I also thank the Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and certain other laws contained in print No 911, to the Committee on Infrastructure for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Marshal of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm be based on the article. 39 (1) (a) 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm have set a time limit for the submission of the report to be discussed at the current sitting of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Member States, the committee responsible has submitted a report on the draft law amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments and certain other laws, print No 959. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm should listen to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion on this item. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the consideration of items 5 and 6 of the agenda: I would like to ask Mrs Urszula Rusecka to provide the reasons for the bill in print No 907. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! High Izbo! I would like to present a parliamentary bill amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those oppressed for political reasons and some other laws, print No. 907. High Izbo! The proposed bill meets the demands of anti-communist opponents who have been fighting injustice against former activists for years. It is a response to the requests made in the appeal of 141 signatories issued on the eve of the 40th anniversary of the signing of August agreements, whose initiators and authors were Jarosław Maciej Goliszewski, Dr. Grzegorz Kostrzewa-Zorbas and Leszek Stall. This is another bill in the 5-year process of restoring the dignity of anti-communist opposition activists. Only the Government of Law and Justice has balanced the opposition in their powers with the combatants of the war period. Let me remind you that last year a law was passed providing them with pensions, which represent twice the minimum pension. The project under investigation is another important step towards legal and moral redress for people who fought for our freedom. The proposed law amends the following laws: the Act of 20 March 2015 on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons, the Act of 24 January 1991 on combatants and certain persons who are victims of war repression and post-war period, the Law of 2 September 1994 on the provision of funds and powers to soldiers of substitute military service forced to employ in coal mines, quarrying, uranium ore plants and construction battalions, and the Act of 31 May 1996 on persons deported to forced labour and employed in labour camps by the Third Reich and the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics, and the Law of 16 November 2006 on the provision of cash and rights to civilian blind victims of war activities. High Izbo! The proposed amendments to the legal acts concerned an increase in the income thresholds for single monetary and periodic monetary assistance and the possibility of granting single monetary aid twice a year. They are intended to enable the provision of assistance to a wider group of eligible persons, in particular in cases where a person is affected by adverse events of chance or suffers a significant deterioration of his or her health, which generally entails a significant increase in health care expenditure, care services or the reduction of the effects of a random event, e.g. fire. The rate of monetary assistance to be provided by the Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons will also be increased, as their current level does not always allow for adequate assistance to cover expenditure such as the purchase of a wheelchair or the adaptation of accommodation to the type of disability. In order to maintain systemic uniformity, the proposed amendment will also address the assistance provided by the head of the office to combatants and oppressed civilian blind victims of war activities, persons deported to forced labour and imprisoned in labour camps by the Third Reich and the Soviet Union and politically repressed soldiers of military replacement service forced to work in coal mines, quarry, uranium ore plants and construction battalions. High Izbo! The law provides a solution on the basis of which anti-communist opposition activists (The Bell) and those repressed for political reasons who remain in employment will be entitled to additional five working days leave. Mr. Marshal, one more minute, because I can't tell you everything. This project is very wide and many people are waiting for this bill. But, Member, relax. Let's go, take it easy. Good. The proposed law introduces very important changes in pensions and this is also the heart of this law. They aim to offset the negative effects of the political repressions of the communist regime and which undermine workers' freedom. People who, as a result of repression for their efforts to regain independence, were forced to stop providing work in the profession they had previously done, generally later took up less paid work. Many years later, this had negative consequences in determining the amount of pension benefits due. Therefore, the introduction of such a new category of premium periods, in conjunction with the solutions proposed in the Act to adopt legal fiction to receive an average salary at that time, although it will partially mitigate the economic effects of the repression. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There are still many changes to the proposed law. We will discuss them in detail at the meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy. On the other hand, it is worth noting that the legislation currently proposed supports, among other things, the provisions. Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons, Minister Jan Kasprzyk, but also the Council for Anti-Communist Opposition Actors and the People Repressed of Political Causes, chaired by Mrs Zofia Romaszewska - Advisor to President Andrzej Duda. Thank you very much to all those who contributed to the fact that today we are proceeding on this bill. Thank you very much to Minister Stanisław Swed and to everyone I mentioned at the beginning of this proposal. I therefore request that the proposed bill be adopted by the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u104	Thank you very much, Member. I wanted to tell you that you're very lucky today, because if my friend Terlecki were in charge of the proceedings, you'd have spoken violently two and a half minutes ago. [[Applause]] Ha, ha, ha! You're wrong, Marshal. Mr. Marshal... Thank you very much, Marshal, but I think... There you go. Senator Magdalena Lovers, please. Please state the reasons for the bill in print No 578. Senator, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The aim of the project we are working on today is to restore dignity and justice to those to whom we owe our free homeland. It has under the title: amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund. Yeah, it's about changing pensions. The length of time spent in prison, internment, taking up work incompatible with their qualifications, education, often very, very low paid is today counted as the period of work needed to obtain the right to retirement, but at the same time the conversion rate by which we calculate this pension is zero. In restoring justice, we want to say to these people: no, the duration of repression is counted in your professional work with a salary equal to the average national earnings during the duration of this repression. Therefore, according to our project, the Social Insurance Institution will re-establish the initial capital by 31 August 2021, calculate the amount of the pension taking into account the contributions from the period of repression to all those who have confirmed the status of an anti-communist opposition activist or a politically repressed person. The cost of this project is estimated at PLN 83 million and will be financed by the state budget. The second problem that we are discussing in this bill is the question of participating in the costs of possible stays of people we are talking about in the law, in social assistance homes. We believe that not the family or the local authorities should participate in the cost of their stay, but the Veterans' Office. The Senate worked on this law at an exceptional, fast, provided for in § 69 of the Senate's Rules of Procedure at a rate. He sent it to the Sejm on 18 August 2020. He also set a deadline for the entry into force of this law for 14 days from the date of its publication. I am talking about this not without a goat, because the full anniversary of August events is coming. We senators thought that, even though we would say this to this environment: we remember you. We want to fix what was neglected. We understand and respect you in a human way. We prepare, process and adopt a bill prepared not by the Senate, but by your colleagues: Mr Leszek Stall, Jarosław Goliszewski, developed by Mr Grzegorz Kostrzewa-Zorbas and Prof. Tomasz Siemietkowski, whom I thank most sincerely for the initiative and work on this project during the entire legislative process. Why did the Sejm keep this project for over six months? I don't know. I do not want to believe that this was about pettyness related to the project's authorship. Once again, I stress that not the senators, and the people I just mentioned are the authors of it. Why would the Sejm, if he wanted to incorporate the project into - probably such an answer - a wider project discussed just now by my predecessor... Let me put it this way: all the decisions you have made in the parliamentary project are important, but it was possible for the 40th anniversary of the August events to give to anti-communist activists and those who were repressed or rewarded, i.e. to raise their pensions much earlier. It's about six months. That's too bad. I'm asking you to accept the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u106	Thank you very much, Senator. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mr Adam Snowman... Excuse me. Excuse me, sir. I invite Mr Adam Sněžka from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Excuse me again, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Last year, the Sejm almost unanimously passed a government bill granting anti-communist opposition activists and politically repressed persons compensation if their pension was less than PLN 2400. This was the remedy for the harm that many people have suffered against communism. For this reason, i.e. during periods of imprisonment, internment, job deprivation, not only had a severely reduced standard of living in times of repression, but received much lower benefits after retirement or pension. Today we're going one step further. We want to fill another gap in the provision of pensions and pensions of people who were committed to communism in favour of Polish sovereignty and political and trade union rights, paying for it often with the status of a citizen and a second-class worker. Both today's draft laws, both senate and print No 578, adopted unanimously by the Upper House and by the Parliamentary Chamber, print No 907, introduced by the Parliamentary Club Group Law and Justice, provide for equalisation of contributions to pension insurance for periods of imprisonment, internment and employment for political organisations and trade unions illegal in the period of the Polish People's Republic, and for periods of non-work and deprivation of the possibility of exercising their profession as a result of political repression by calculating these contributions from the level of average remuneration of those periods. In our opinion, the parliamentary project introduces a better solution. The aim is to establish initial capital using contributions calculated from average remuneration for these periods of repression. It's going to be about 5,000. persons and annual expenditure on increased pension benefits is estimated at about PLN 10, 11 million. The Parliamentary project also introduces in the Act on activists of anti-communist opposition, the Act on Combatants and other laws concerning soldiers of military substitute service forced to work in mines and quarryes, persons deported to forced labour and prisoners in labour camps by the Third Reich and the USSR, as well as civil blind victims of war changes which increase income thresholds, entitle to one-off and periodic monetary assistance and enable the granting of one-off assistance twice a year. The Parliamentary bill also provides for the anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons remaining in employment to be entitled to additional leave of 5 working days per calendar year. The draft Group of Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice also amends the Law on the provision of money to persons sent or deported by the Soviet Union authorities in the years 1936-1956, allowing grant this benefit to a higher dimension of 1100 persons for whom repression started before 1956 and continued thereafter and granting this benefit to 90 persons for whom repression started after 1956. These are the most common people born on exile. The cost of payment of these benefits will be about PLN 2.5 million. All these solutions are very expected by the environment's anti-communist activists and oppressed people. They fulfil the obligations of the Republic of Poland towards those citizens who have sacrificed a great deal for their freedom. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice strongly supports these solutions and advocates the transfer of both projects to committee work. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u108	Thank you very much, sir. The floor will be taken by Marshal Margaret Kidawa-Błońska, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The anti-communist opposition's actions include gratitude, recognition, support and assistance. That's the way it's supposed to be. I have the impression that the work did not go as fast as we expected. It took a long time sometimes. Democratic opposition activists as active, responsible people have prepared very expected solutions by their environment, consulted, analysed. They presented it in the appeal of 141 opponents. They sent it to the Sejm and to the Senate. It went to the Sejm in July, and so did the Senate. The Senate took up work very quickly and prepared it actually at a great pace, but also in great compatibility, because voting 90 to 0 is impressive. This means that consensus has been reached and everyone has said that these measures need to be taken quickly in order for this assistance to be launched immediately. I am extremely sorry that this senate project waited for six months so that we could discuss it in the Seym. Many, many of the opponents who have sought this bill, have no longer seen this discussion. This is very sad for me personally, because I remember talking to them as they said it was important for their entire environment. Indeed, we had to wait for the resolution of Law and Justice, a government solution. I understand that in this Seym there is such a tradition that it should always be a government solution or a solution to Law and Justice, but these matters are common to all of us. It could have been okay. Whether it's a parliamentary, government, opposition or senate project. He solves the problems of people who deserve our gratitude. We should do this fast. I would like to see the content of the project in the Polish Sejm, not who is the author of it. Then we'll work better, faster, and maybe we'll start talking better. It is good that today we can say that we are coming to the end of this long road. I hope that both projects will be on the committee and that we will work out these laws quite quickly and that they will come into force quickly. There were too many delays, too many people had to wait for this help. This is our debt of gratitude to the heroes of our history. I hope that today will begin this work and that the committee will work quickly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u110	Thank you, Marshal. I invite Mrs Joanna Frydrych, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u111	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! I present to you the history of the Senate bill amending the Social Insurance Fund Act and the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons included in print No 578. The Senate project was unanimously adopted by the Senate on 18 August 2020, of which 100% The voter was 45 opposition senators and 45 PiS senators. On August 19, the project entered the Sejm and has been waiting for consideration since then. The bill is a response to the request proposed by the Senators' Group by Mr Jarosław Maciej Goliszewski and Mr Leszek Stall as initiators and authors of the appeal of 141 former opponents and repressed for the repair of statutory pension fiction, delivered to the highest authorities of the Republic of Poland on 21 July 2020, Dr. Grzegorz Kostrzewa-Zorbas, author of the proposal for regulation and one of the signatories of the appeal, and Prof. Tomasz Siemiętkowski, social consultant. Among the signatories to this call were people with different political views, e.g. Piotr Łukasz Andrzejewski, former senator from PiS, and Jan Rulewski, former senator from PO, Krzysztof Wyrzykowski and Bogdan Lis, Czesław Bielecki and Zbigniew Janas, Krzysztof Czabański and Jan Dworak, Agnieszka Romaszewska-Guzy and Mirosław Chojecki. The bill provides for the right to convert pension benefits and initial capital and the acceptance of an average salary during periods when opponents and politically repressed persons were deprived of the possibility to work in the current profession. The project also assumes (the bell) that if a person entitled to social assistance was placed in a home, the difference between the residence fees borne by that person and the actual cost was covered by the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project restores justice and dignity and partially compensates for the economic consequences of political repression and anti-communist opposition activists. In the course of the struggle of the Civic Coalition club to speed up the work on this draft law on 15 January 2021, the Parliamentary draft law amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons and certain other laws contained in print No 907 entered into the Sejm. The parliamentary project fully consumes the solutions contained in the Senate project and adds others. The proposed solutions are very much needed and expected by the environment so highly deserved for Poland. Fast regulation is our moral duty. Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will support the proposed solutions and request that legislative proposals be submitted for further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u112	Thank you, Member. I invite Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, On behalf of the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left, I have the honour to present my position on a very important matter. The matter we are discussing today, helping anti-communist opposition activists, helping people particularly deserved in the fight for independence of the Republic, is also constitutional matter, because art. 19 of the Constitution says: "Rzeczpospolita Poland specially cares for veterans fighting for independence, especially the disabled of war. There is therefore no need for any competition between the Upper House and the Lower House of the Polish Parliament in the creation of the law, which is to be given special care to those who are fighting for independence of the Republic of Poland. The solutions adopted in the parliamentary draft are proposed, among others. extending the catalogue of periods considered as premium periods, facilitating the documentation of those periods, the possibility of obtaining additional leave, but not more than 26 days, or changes concerning total or partial exemption from social housing charges. I must say that the senate solution is more credible, because it provides that the payer of this difference is the Office for Foreign Affairs. Veterans. On the other hand, the parliamentary solution states that this municipality is to pay, on general terms. Given the financial situation of the municipalities, unfortunately, we do not have a guarantee that this surcharge will be granted to those particularly deserved. Therefore, we should seek a solution to ensure that this legal solution is a guarantee for these people, and not just a receipt without covering. Therefore, if we do not accept the senate solution, then the Left Club will propose that the municipalities reimburse the expenses associated with their stay at the welfare home. Another important element of this parliamentary law is, of course, this social aid, one-off social aid, this aid for the purchase of orthopaedic products. This is important - both the amount of this aid and the access criteria. What I'm trying to say here is, unfortunately, it's not here. also, once again, financial guarantees. At the end of 2019 there were around 240 thousand. The officers of the Veterans' Office. There have already been insufficient resources for aid in recent years, and now this aid can be obtained twice as large and for a larger group. So the basic question is, where are we going to get the money for this? Unless we have a guarantee from the President of the Council of Ministers that we will use the reserve of the President of the Council of Ministers. I kindly ask that Mr Przemysław Koperski continue his post.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u114	Thank you very much. Mr Przemysław Koperski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate's draft amendment to the Social Insurance Fund Pension Act and the Act on opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons extends the powers of four groups of persons whose contribution periods are recognised under the Social Insurance Fund Act, and adds the fifth group, which has so far been omitted, to those who have not been able to pursue their profession before 31 July 1990 as a result of political repression. This is the right direction - according to the project, the reference point for treating these people will not lack a pension or very low pension, but average average salary in Poland in years of opposition activity or subject to repression. The Left Parliamentary Club supports the proposals made in the Senate to amend the law. At the same time, Minister, I would like to say that in general all senior citizens in Poland, pensioners in Poland deserve a decent pension. We would like these decent pensions not to be paid as much as they are paid today. Often ZUS sends several- or dozen-year pensions to Polish pensioners. The left, I remind you, has filed a bill on these pensions of at least PLN 1600 per month. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u116	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Bożena Żalewska from the Parliamentary Club coalition Poland - PSL, UED, Conservatives. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u117	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Gentlemen of Ministers! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - PSL, ED, Conservatives, I have the honour to present a position on the draft law amending the Act on activists of anti-communist opposition and those oppressed for political reasons and some other laws from print no. 907. The Act in its original version was adopted by the Sejm on 20 March 2015 under the rule of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. The draft amendment was submitted to the Sejm in August 2020. It was based on a proposal from the opposition community, who felt unfairly treated by the rules in force. The previous pension law provides for the placement of their work in underground structures to be included in the premium periods, but for this reason no contributions have been paid to the Social Security Office, and therefore there is nothing to charge those persons with pensions. Repressed people propose that, for the period of underground work and repression that their services underwent, the Social Security Office should write down on the accounts of the oppressed persons, i.e. in their pension accounts, contributions calculated from the average salary at that time. These proposals were submitted by the opponents and the Senate in August 2020, but they were not further examined. A project containing the same solutions plus new records appeared in the Seym in January and that is what we are discussing today. The additional provisions concern the increase of the income thresholds for single monetary and periodic monetary assistance, the increase in the amount of benefits and the possibility to grant monetary aid twice a year and not, as yet, once every 12 months. The proposed amendment also allows the Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons to cover the costs of buying medical devices in full and not, as so far, in part. Under this law, the same powers will be conferred on those who are victims of war repression and post-war period, who as young people were forced to work in coal mines, uranium ore plants and construction battalions, as well as those deported to forced labour in labour camps of the Third Reich and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and those who have the status of war victims. This law will also provide the opposition activists with additional vacation days. Another very important issue, which is regulated by this law, is the exemption, total or partial, from the fees for staying in a social security home. We know that today this cost is borne by the family and partly by the municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen! Very often opposition activists, oppressed people live in difficult conditions and their monthly income is insufficient. Therefore, on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party and the European Union of Democrats, I recommend the High House to adopt this law. Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I understand we'll also join the Conservatives in this. Conservatives, too. Yes, Mr. Marshal. Allow me, on behalf of the Polish Coalition Club - the Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives, Mr. Marshal, to present also my position towards the Senate draft law on printing No. 578. The project concerns four groups of persons whose contribution periods are recognised under the Social Insurance Fund Pension Act. This law will restore justice and dignity and partially compensate for the economic impact of repression on people with confirmed status. [[♪ The bell ♪]] an anti-communist opposition activist or those repressed for political reasons and will improve their material situation. On behalf of the club, I recommend the High House to adopt this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u118	Thank you, Member. I invite Mr Krystian Kaminski from the Wheel of the Posel Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u119	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prints Nos 907 and 578 concern changes to the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons. It is good that after 30 years of the Third Republic there will finally be an improvement in this matter. This is, of course, a step in the right direction. The aim of the Act is to improve the life situation of two groups in particular, as the previous regulations were considered insufficient by their representatives. Designed changes aim, among others. increase the income thresholds for single and periodic monetary aid, which will, of course, increase the pool of beneficiaries and allow the granting of monetary aid twice a year instead of once, as has been the case so far. The Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons may now assist those who are repressed, partly covering the costs of purchasing medical devices if they are in a difficult situation of material, life and health. According to the applicants, he will now be able to cover these costs overall. This is naturally the right thing to do. According to the applicants, this will not automatically increase the burden on the State budget as the aid will be granted within the budgetary limit of the Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. Further proposed amendments are the entitlement to additional rest leave - 5 working days per calendar year. That's the right thing to do, too. That's how we deal with it. People repressed for political reasons will be subject to the same powers as members of the Veterans' Corps Walk for Independence of the Republic of Poland, i.e. they will benefit from the exemption from the social security fee. There's no doubt here, I hope, that they deserve it. There will also be a change in pension legislation that mitigates the economic impact of repression, which has been caused by, for example, the loss of work due to activities or the less paid job, which has then adversely affected pension benefits. Here are some doubts that have been raised by opposition environments, whether those who have not worked out the basis for retirement will also be covered overall. If such a person applies to the Social Security Office for recalculation, he will get the answer that the contribution was zero or negative, overdue. Will these people be covered? And I don't know if the best idea is that ZUS is gonna do this kind of thing. Knowing the resistance of the ZUS, we know that these calculations can take a long time. Shouldn't he be taking care of the Veterans' Office after all? There's one more thing I'd like to point out when we're talking about this bill. In the current law on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons, there is the provision of an article. 2 (2) 1, which states that the anti-communist opposition activist is a person who, during the period from 1 January 1956 to 4 June 1989, together for at least 12 months, carried out a criminal activity in order to regain independence, sovereignty or respect of political human rights by Poland in the framework of structures organised or in cooperation with them. Criminal liability under the Penal Code was the responsibility of someone who committed an illegal act after the age of 17. Thus, the status of anti-communist opposition activist is excluded from the status of those who, acting in various organizations, fought for free Poland at the time. From the knowledge I gained, teenage people, under the age of 17, often actively engaged in anti-communist activities, among others. editing and distributing illegal magazines, participating in opposition demonstrations or producing and broadcasting radio solidarity broadcasts on television frequencies. Therefore, I have a question as to whether it is not worth to modify here immediately, so that these people also have the opportunity to receive such benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u120	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Joanna Mucha from the Poselski Circle to Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u121	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poland 2050 wheel in relation to the drafts of these two laws. I'm the last one performing. My previous speakers and my previous speakers have de facto discussed these projects in detail as regards their content, so I will remain told about a few general issues. First of all, as a representative of this generation, which benefited from this great transformation that took place after 1989, I wanted to thank very much those who are celebrating on 4 June today and those who are celebrating the anniversary of the appointment of the Olszewski government. I want to thank all these people for the fact that we were able to enjoy free Poland until recently. Until when? I will start with a quote that appeared in this appeal, which was repeatedly referred to: It is rare when Poland and Poles could and can boast of the battles recorded in history. Rarely do such battalions find proper recognition in the memory of Poles themselves, in the opinion and in the ruling actions, not to mention the translation into the international forum. And yet we have something to be proud of. And in the Middle Ages. This is the victory of the "Solidarity," as we recall on the eve of her 40th anniversary. Of course, this is an appeal that was written almost a year ago, less than a year ago, so this reference to the day of the 40th anniversary is no longer valid today, but the rest is very current. Indeed, this is one of the few situations in Poland's history when we managed to succeed bloodlessly, and this is the situation that we should really be proud of, we should be proud of it, and I have the impression that we can't quite do it. I have the impression that we cannot tell the young generation exactly what happened, what happened, how our predecessors fought for free Poland. I remember a meeting where they were sleeping. Henry Wujec and his wife Ludka Wujec, a meeting at which they talked about their fight, meeting with young people. At one point I realized that these young people didn't understand what they were talking about, they didn't understand the words: paperwork, prosecution sanctions, they just didn't know what it was like. I have the impression that in free Poland we could not tell our young people, our children about these times. On the other hand, these people I speak to, whom I have the honour of knowing, say: the reward is the free state. They say that many of us - that's what we did - have been awarded by the presidents. They say: many of us have managed in free Poland. But also very many of them did not manage in free Poland. And the fact that after such a long time, only when they recall themselves, we propose this type of law, is in my opinion truly unforgivable. They say: Allow us, our colleagues, to be old enough. Let us receive decent pensions and pensions. It's a good thing these two projects came along. It's a good thing we're finally gonna give them justice, also in such a totally prosaic, financial way. This group of opponents is just $6,000. people, only so many people are involved in this bill. It's really worth it for us to reschedule very quickly. These people are also talking about the fact that this financial assistance is still scarce and there are still a lot of bureaucratic barriers, so let's try to proceed with this bill as soon as possible to bring this help closer to these people. I don't need to talk about the fact that our circle, the members of our circle, will, of course, vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u122	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we're opening up a list of questions. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. I invite Mrs Ewa Kozanecka from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u123	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! We are discussing a very important bill on amending the Act on activists of the anti-communist opposition and those oppressed for political reasons and some other laws, which aims to improve the life situation of many people, those who fought for free, independent Poland, people who very often risked their health and life and their loved ones. Designed changes concern many areas, including: increase the income thresholds for obtaining monetary aid. It is also important to change the negative effects of the political repression of the communist regime that undermine workers' freedom. People who have been repressed have often been forced to stop working. And I have a question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to ministers: How and how will the proposed changes mitigate the economic consequences of the political repression suffered by the communist regime against activists who, despite the danger they face, without calculating, fought for free, independent Poland? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u124	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Piotr Boris, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u125	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We have been working on this bill for more than six months, responding to the appeal of 141 opponents and oppressed people. On the one hand, It is a great regret and sadness that Parliament is not able to stand over divisions regardless of the authorship of this law and so strongly shifts in time such expected regulations. After all, these people are leaving and want to live well these last years, decades, knowing that the Polish state remembers about support, about equalization of pensions, about support in the cost of living in social care homes. Because this law is not only a technical law, it is a symbolic law which shows that, however, the Polish state can afford to claim the rights of those about whom for years, mainly in communist times, nobody [[♪ The bell ♪]] He didn't complain. I therefore call for a swift process so that we can adopt this law together. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u126	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u127	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to ask the Minister: Is work being done in the Ministry to prepare solutions similar to those of the combatants, namely for a group of minor victims of war? This is one of the last groups that is not regulated by law, a group from war and post-war periods, and for a long time also expects work by the government party. The second question concerns the effects of the entry into force of these proposed amendments, in particular as regards one-off aid, financial assistance. Where will the head of the Veterans' Office get additional funding for all these projects? I am afraid that since we have more legitimate, wider criteria, we will receive in total the funds that you have today, the manager, less people (the bell), because it is obvious, unless the Minister has the opportunity to receive government support from the reserve of the President of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u128	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Joanna Mucha, Koło Poselskie Polska 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a very simple question. The Senate prepared its project in August Ub. On 19 August, if I remember correctly, this project was sent to the Sejm. Mrs. Applicant, what took you so long? What happened that we couldn't have done this project before? It's not a political project. This is a project that was prepared by the opponents, by the oppressed. Why did you have to wait so long? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u130	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Piotr Uruski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u131	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Today, many anti-communist opposition activists and politically repressed people have been in a difficult situation of life for various reasons, often because of the health situation, when it is necessary to cover, for example. the purchase of medical devices. The proposed amendments aim at increasing the income thresholds for single monetary and periodic monetary assistance. The question as to whether the proposed changes to the rules will allow for the assistance of a wider group of entitled persons who have been repressed and activists of the anti-communist opposition who are in a difficult situation in life. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u132	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Michael Szczerba, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u133	Dear Marshal, This law is also a tribute to those who fought for free and democratic Poland. We do this in times where everything is put on our heads, also what the Institute of National Remembrance should be, which should be the keeper of the memory of those wonderful people who today very often need help. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is another project for which the government party, the PiS-owska party, redirects responsibility for dismissal, partial exemption from social services in the homes of the local government. And yet it is the responsibility of the state. After all, these people fought for the freedom of the whole country and served the whole society. I remember the case of Warsaw insurgents, how you dragged the issue of exemption from fees on the social policy committee for a year. And it was the same situation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You've transferred financial responsibility to the local government. Why the Polish state, why doesn't the government want to take responsibility for those people who spent their best years in communist prisons, fighting for our common freedom? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u134	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is good that, after six months, Law and Justice finally decided in the Sejm to take a case that should be resolved overnight. Often TV, the sneakery TVP evaluates after a few days when the Sejm does not perform this at the request of the Senate. But for the record, the question of retirement isn't just for the repressed. On 1 May the Left announced the staff package and on 4 May a request was received by the Sejm. To this day, no print number has been given to a project with the lowest pensions. We are talking about pensions and pensions for the repressed, groups of 6,8 thousand. People. Where's a group of hundreds, thousands and millions of citizens waiting for a raise? $1,600 net at the expense of the minimum pension was a proposal from the Left. So far, neither heard nor seen, nor here in the Sejm, nor in the ministry. Minister, I'm asking you to answer exactly what you're doing here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u136	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Ursula Augustine, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. There isn't. The change was. If you do not have Urszula Augustyn, I invite Anna Wasilewska from the same club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u137	Thank you very much. There you go. Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Today we listened to draft legislations: Senate and Parliamentary. The rules currently in force and apply to pensions for anti-communist opposition activists are absolutely improving. We all agree on that from right to left. But my question is: Why has it been delayed for so long to proceed with the Senate bill, which was created as a result of the opposition community initiative and unanimously adopted in the Senate? Why was a new project submitted by the PiS MEPs at a time when the Senate project was ready to proceed and could be amended to do so? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u138	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. Come on in. There isn't. I don't think you can invite him. For this reason, I cordially ask Mrs Henryka Krzywonos-Strycharska, also the Civic Coalition. I would like to invite you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much to all those who contributed to the creation of the Print Act No. 907. The proposed amendments to the Act grant various additional benefits, among others. Medical. I just don't understand why state aid in the form of a stay in a sanatorium, social services or the purchase of a hearing aid is to be financed and not financed. I don't know if you know this, but I go to my friends' funerals a lot right now -- we're just sneaking out. I think a lot of us need help, and we're in extreme poverty because we're not in retirement and we're not in retirement, and I'm not talking about me, [[♪ The bell ♪]] There were no extras. These people have very low pensions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u140	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! All those who fought for free, independent, sovereign Poland deserve great respect, words of appreciation and thanks. That's why it's hard for me to understand that such an important bill was in the freezer for six months. Ladies and gentlemen, this is our debt of gratitude to the heroes of the 20th century, to those people who risked their lives, the lives of their families, to fight for another Poland. Heroes should unite, not divide. Mrs Krzywonos said that there are fewer and fewer of them. It should be our brand, the brand of Poland outside the borders, in the world. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, a certain reflection. Let's see if the heroes of that time, those days [[♪ The bell ♪]] They fought. For such a prosecutor's office, for such public television, for such an international policy. [[Applause]] Yes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Did you fight, sir?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u142	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u143	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will join you in thanking all the opponents, and especially I will send them to Heni, who is among us. Thank you. [[Applause]] But I would like everyone to benefit from this opportunity, very good. Meanwhile, I have some concern and here my request especially to the ministry - first to all those working on the bill and then to the ministry - so that this information is for everyone. As you know, many were those who received a one-way ticket, are somewhere in the world, are in poverty and they are told that something has changed in the legislation, simply will not reach if we do not write it down in the bill or in the regulation I ask for. The idea is for consulates to be obliged to inform through the local press [[♪ The bell ♪]] in different places, all over the world. Otherwise, those who were particularly reluctant to be seen... Repressed. ...repressed - such persona non grata, one-way ticket and there is peace - they will not benefit from this right, necessary, important, also for them, bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u144	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u145	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The ruling party talks so much about people being oppressed by the communist system. However, you did not fully care for these people, and in addition you kept in the Seym freezer a Senate bill, which is a response to the appeal of 141 opponents to repair the pension statutory fiction, i.e. the zero pension base, because so much you valued the time of persecution and repression of Polish opponents. The Senate project assumes that the pension base for this period will be the average salary. Ladies and gentlemen! It is to restore justice and dignity to these people and to take account of the economic impact. On the eve of the 40th anniversary of martial law, today, we should all bow our heads above divisions [[♪ The bell ♪]] and pay their respects to these people. And there are people in this room. Hey, hey, hey, [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u146	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I now ask the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Minister Stanisław Swed to answer the questions and present the position of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank Parliamentary Club Law and Justice very warmly for the initiative to support the act of anti-communist opposition activists and the oppressed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] It's a valuable, next initiative of law and justice. Thank you very much to the Senate for the initiative. It is also a valuable initiative to support anti-communist opposition activists. We restore dignity to these people. I think it is worth telling the truth in this debate, and I think that opposition activists also want us to say the real things and not practice some big policy, and I don't think that's what we need. I'll just remind you of a few things. On the 40th anniversary of Solidarity, we adopted - together, because the entire Sejm adopted - a very good solution, which is compensation in the form of a pension of PLN 2400, i.e. twice the lowest pension for those activists who for various reasons did not have a pension and had no pension and were repressed. For these persons an amount of PLN 2400 is provided. Today, 3,000 are entitled to do so. activists. This solution was very well accepted. We accepted them together on the 40th anniversary of Solidarity. This is one example. The second example. In 2017, we adopted a very good solution matching the powers of anti-communist opposition activists with the powers of combatants. Don't forget that we're talking about combatants, a group that, including families, has 240,000 widows at the moment. persons. There are about 15 thousand anti-communist opposition activists. As part of this solution, we also introduced a supplement - as in the case of combatants - in the amount of PLN 400, which today amounts to PLN 460, for those who have the status of anti-communist opposition activist. This allowance shall be exempt from any deductions and shall be valued. These are solutions that take into account all the demands of anti-communist opposition activists. Of course, there are also a number of other solutions used by combatants, as well as anti-communist opposition activists at the moment. What does the parliamentary project contain? It contains a very important change: an increase of 50% income thresholds entitling social assistance. This is a very good solution that will allow these people additional support. If it's about the funds, I'll just give you two digits. In 2015, 9 million PLN was allocated to aid to combatants and in 2021 130 million PLN is allocated to social and other aid to combatants and anti-communist opposition activists. [[Applause]] Oh... Bravo! I think there's a difference between PLN 9 million and PLN 130 million. If someone's trying to accuse us that we didn't do anything, I think it's pretty impressive. For anti-communist opposition activists we now have the amount of PLN 100 million, for combatants - PLN 30 million, because simply in this case the number of people is decreasing due to their death. The funds are provided - the honourable Member asked - in the budget of Minister Kasprzyk at the Office for Foreign Affairs. Veterans and there is no danger in the implementation of this project. So 9 million PLN and 130 million PLN. And the second point, related to the initial capital case. The solution that we introduced on the 40th anniversary, regarding the amount of PLN 2400, covers everyone. This solution, which we are introducing in this Act, concerns initial capital for those who are still working, can convert initial capital and increase their pension. We estimate that these people will be ok. 6,000. I think that by increasing their pensions they will also benefit from this, because they could not benefit from the amount of PLN 2400, as they exceed the amounts. There were also very important questions about care and social security fees. The same solution is accepted for veterans, here we do not change anything. It is a solution based on the principle adopted within the veteran corps. It is also important - what was not - that we grant an additional 5 days of vacation for activists, i.e. not in a pot of 26 or 20 days, if someone has such permission, only an additional 5 days of vacation, which will also help anti-communist opposition activists in this area. To sum up these two projects, the parliamentary project is wider than the Senate project, [[♪ The bell ♪]] because the Senate project is actually about the issue of initial capital, which is another conversion. I hope that today, when we work on two projects in the Committee on Social Policy, we will work out one good solution that will help anti-communist opposition activists and those who are being repressed in their dignified future days. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u148	Thank you, Minister. I invite Mrs Ursula Rusecka, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, as the representative of the applicants.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u149	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I would like to thank you very warmly on behalf of the applicants for this debate, for the fact that this law is on the table and that we will be able to close the proceedings on it at this meeting. This is a very important bill for which our anti-communist opponents have been waiting for years. This is a bill that finally restores their dignity. Thank you for the words made by Minister Stanisław Szwed, about how Law and Justice have changed the dignity of the opposition since the beginning. Here two values are important: 9 million PLN, which the predecessors used to support these people, and 130 million PLN. This is a chasm, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you so much for continuing to process this bill over divisions. I think that the committee will be in session quickly and there will be a second reading tomorrow and that we will be able to vote on this bill. Thank you very much again. On the other hand, I will say in one more sentence that the Parliamentary Law is simply a more extensive law than the one proposed by the Senate. Thank you very much for being able to extend this to include additional support for those repressed in communist times and that this is reflected in this law. Thank you very much to all those who have contributed to the drafting of this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u150	Thank you very much. I invite Senator Magdalena Kochan as the representative of the applicants. There you go. One sentence in correction mode. But no one has referred to you, sir, so that you have nothing to correct. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u151	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! Mrs. Member! High Izbo! The hardest thing about democracy is democracy, really. Respect, respect and appreciation for the efforts of those who have not won but who represent a large group of voters. Respect, nothing more. I am not questioning any of the provisions that you propose in the parliamentary bill - not one. All these solutions are needed by the environment. I'm just questioning the timing of the solutions you're consuming. Unfortunately, do not copy - paste, only a new solution for granting a different calculation of pensions for people who had a zero conversion for the time of repression against them. This is a problem, because in our solution we say: without the request of the ZUS converts. In yours you say: on request, after the presentation of witnesses - bureaucracy grows - judicially, etc. I ask that you take advantage of our solution in this matter, really. It is not prepared by the senators. It is prepared by applicants, whom we will all today and once again thank. Interested. Let's not invent, let's not open the door. This is a better solution, a simpler solution, a solution that doesn't humiliate court-martials, tons of paperwork, other witnesses, [[Applause]] Which we must bring before the court. What's that for? Why? And the second thing I'm asking for. If we're talking about memory, about gratitude to this environment... I am convinced that no local government ignores with silence the merits of people who have in its commune, the district, the voivodship. If he can and has legal opportunities to support these people, he will. But the question is, isn't this a national matter? For those people who will eventually benefit from their stay in the social services house - because not all of them, I hope that none of them will have to use it - if they are already there, the Polish state, thanking them for what they have done before, will pay and will take the cost of the veteran office? [[Applause]] This is really a request to you. Let's think together, over divisions. Gratitude has no political colors. In my opinion, the courage of those to whom we dedicate this bill, when they fought for us, was also of no political color. It was simple: we don't want a commune, we want freedom, we want civil rights. It was easy - they had courage. Today we're fighting, who's faster. It's a terrible fight. It doesn't matter. Six months earlier, the problem could have been solved if it wasn't for petty. Let's move her away, let's adopt a solution that's really good for the environment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u152	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm direct the draft laws: - amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons and certain other laws contained in print No 907 and: - on the amendment of the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and the Act on activists of the anti-communist opposition and those repressed for political reasons, contained in print No 578, to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for consideration. Marshal of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm, based on the article. 39 (1) (a) 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, set a time limit for the submission of the report for consideration at the current sitting of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. I'm declaring a two-minute break. After the break, you're welcome to vote. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 mins 12 h 14 min 16]] I'm reopening the session. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to proceed with a quorum. I would like to ask all Members to press any button to confirm their presence at the meeting. The meeting shall be attended by 439 Members. I'm declaring a quorum. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors Convention, submitted a draft resolution on the 30th anniversary of the creation of the Visegrad Group, print No 967. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Social Policy and Family Committee submitted a report on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws, print No 956. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau in connection with the 30th anniversary of the Visegrad Group (Print No 967). [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland in connection with the 30th anniversary of the creation of the Visegrad Group of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland expresses its appreciation and deep gratitude for the fundamental political act of inaugurating the cooperation of the Visegrad Group on 15 February 1991. 30 years ago, the presidents of Poland and Czechoslovakia Lech Wałęsa and Václaw Havel and Hungarian Prime Minister József Antall held a historic meeting in Visegrad, which gave rise to regional cooperation between Central European countries for security, development and European and Euro-Atlantic integration. Our joint efforts resulted in accession to the North Atlantic Pact of Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary in 1999 and Slovakia in 2004. In the same year 2004 our countries' accession procedures to the European Union were successful. The implementation of these strategic objectives confirmed the effectiveness of the joint action, reflecting on the fact that Visegrad Group countries should operate within the EU and NATO as a regional community of close neighbours and friends. Soon we could prove that our membership in these structures involves their active co-formation. Our participation in the discussion on security issues led to the decision to set up the eastern NATO flank, and activity in the EU - among others. on the future of the EU, its enlargement, its neighbourhood policy, migration policy or in discussions on the shape of cohesion policy within the framework of the multiannual financial framework - it has protected the interests of Central Europe. The parliamentary dimension of the Visegrad Group is particularly important for deepening regional cooperation. Undisputed status has been achieved by meetings of the Presidents of the V4 parliaments, which are often attended by partners from other EU countries. Cooperation within the sectoral committees and the Parliamentary rapid response team on subsidiarity control is important. From the perspective of three decades we appreciate the strength of our community, thanks to which we have gained protection of regional interests and international recognition. Our cooperation is a combination of historical and mentally close efforts of nations, in the past of similarly hard-experienced and similar visions and programmes of their own development. On the 30th anniversary of the inauguration of Visegrad cooperation, we express our highest respect for the achievements of our countries, societies and parliaments and declare the continuation of our efforts to integrate and develop our community. I propose that we adopt this resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution regarding the 30th anniversary of the Visegrad Group. The formal proposal is submitted by Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland - PSL, Conservatives. There you go. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u153	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! In the morning part of the club appearances in these cases I wanted to address your marshals because at the end of November ub. Ms Onlyak stated that the National Reconstruction Plan would be presented in the coming weeks. At the end of January, however, the Minister stated that the National Reconstruction Plan would be submitted in mid-February this year. We now know that the consultation is due to begin on Friday. The National Reconstruction Plan is also due to be published on Friday. We therefore ask Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki to be the first addressee to be presented with the reconstruction programme. [[Applause]] We believe that this is a very important document, which, as I say, the objectives and all the directions it contains for spending these funds... This can integrate this House because it is (the bell) common goals. We therefore request that this be put on the agenda. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u154	Thank you, sir. You know it wasn't a formal conclusion. Thank you, sir. We return to the examination of item 2 of the agenda: First reading of the draft law on amending the Supreme Court Act presented by the President of the Republic of Poland. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print 935, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 202 - for, 238 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the proposal and thus referred this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. I propose that the Sejm be based on the article. 39 (1) (a) 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm have set a time limit for the submission of a report to the committee to be examined at the current sitting of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Objection. There's an objection, all right. Due to the opposition, we will vote on this. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal to set a deadline for submitting a report to the committee to be discussed at this session of the Sejm would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 232 - for, 215 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws (prints Nos 945 and 956). I ask Mrs Ursula Rusecka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u155	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I would like to present a report to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws. This Decision shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, the Marshal of the Sejm referred on 22 February 2021 the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the committee for consideration. At yesterday's meeting, the Commission considered the Senate resolution and requested that the proposed amendment be rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u156	Thank you, Member. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate amendment by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. We will vote on the motion to reject the Senate amendment. In the amendment to the article. 6 The Senate proposes, inter alia, that from 1 March 2021 benefits should be valued by no less than PLN 70. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting the Senate amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 235 - for, 210 - against, 5 stopped. The Senate rejected the Senate amendment by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki has asked for the floor. You're welcome, Prime Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u157	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The media and part of the opposition have decided not only to attack the Government of Law and Justice, the Government of the United Right, not only our camp, but above all they have decided to attack a certain ethos, ethos, which I believe to be at least for some of the opposition, some of those of the state who consider themselves state-owned should be close, close to your heart at all times. This is the ethos of state repair, institution repair, this is ethos It's a stateman. But unfortunately, after the recent attacks, after the attacks that have crossed the bounds of impudence, and I'm going to try to prove it in a moment... But what is it? ... It's easy to recognize those who are still trying to keep some decency on a certain level, and those who are trying to fight just for efficiency, for peril... Public television in particular. ...states at the same time, unlike those who are approaching the anarchy camp, to the chaos camp, because that is the name of the camp which fights with the efficiency of fiscal institutions, financial institutions of the Polish state. [[Applause)]] It is with great regret that I must say that indeed very clearly... VAT lies. VAT. ...you could see that some of the media from abroad, which belonged to abroad (the Gwar in the hall), along with some of the opposition, decided to play a very interesting, very interesting wist, you can say, namely they decided to use the so-called once again. The opposition VAT lie, they decided to show that it was at the time of the Platform that anything good was going on here, and we didn't fix the state's public finances. Did the president find out he wasn't coming? So let's move on to some specifics, but first, before the VAT gap, I have to deal with the memory gap, with the forgetfulness on the opposition side, because I don't think you remember the basic numbers, I think you've forgotten how much VAT was in 2015, the last almost full year of your governments for which you're responsible. That was PLN 123 billion. What else is... How much VAT was collected in 2020, already the year of the biggest crisis, at the end of the crisis of the century, as some say, right? Well, PLN 184 billion. So let's bring this argument to simple math. Only in one year 2017 VAT collection increases by PLN 30 billion. How much does VAT increase in the times of the Civic Platform for 8 years? 30 billion zlotys, too. I didn't miss a beat, eight years here, and 1 year here. Dear fellow countrymen, it is worth comparing, it is worth keeping these figures in mind. [[Applause]] Download isn't that. The same as the influence. You're lying. Donald Tusk, when he left for the European Union, said, joked about whether he was serious, that he needed to refresh himself or build his knowledge of euro-economy and banking, because he did not want to be the kind of man who does not have any knowledge about it. I think he even used words that he didn't want to be someone who didn't know anything about it. Well, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately for the VAT mafia, he was dramatically mistaken, because the VAT mafia knew very well that your governments were like a great developed banner And they did it. And the Mafia at the Ministry of Finance... Since the first year, stealing has been beyond all boundaries, literally and figuratively. Well, ladies and gentlemen, how many fuel tanks were coming left in the days of the Civic Platform? There were 500, 600 tanks, a total of 750, during our reigns - 150, 200 tanks. You should ask where these were going. 500, 600 tanks. It is a daily loss of about PLN 20 million from the same title alone. Ladies and gentlemen! Liberals from the Civic Platform are happy to use such a metaphor (the bell) of the state as a night watchman. The nap of this night watchman cost us 50 to 100 million zlotys a day and, attention - these are the data of the European Commission, your dear European Commission. [[Applause]] These are prognosis, man. So let's move on, ladies and gentlemen. It's worth asking how it happened that we've had such an incredible success... Ha, ha, ha! ...the success every patriot should enjoy. That's why I don't understand your screams, your sorrows, your invectives. After all, from this success, with this VAT we give funds for the development of roads, development of schools, modernization of hospitals or 500+, for expeditions, for many other expenses. That's why. Ladies and gentlemen! Here really attention for connoisseurs, a few days ago, that is to say data from the European Commission, who else would be concerned about the sustainability of public finances. And the highest inflation. Keep it down, Member. Take a look at a page that shows that there are 27 Member States. There, the European Commission notes that Poland is the only country that has positive assessments in all possible parameters in terms of basic parameters for the sustainability of public finances. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! Isn't that what happened in the opposition's mouth that was the most perverse and at the same time contradictory? [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] Mrs Skowronska, I warn you. Mr Konwiński... Member, you shouldn't have lied. How's the national reconstruction programme? On the one hand, the Civic Platform, a party of liberals, says this: it is us, it is the Civic Platform, we have sealed VAT, and in the same sentence it says that VAT sealing was lacking in the situation of our governments. Ladies and gentlemen! It is worth looking at tax statistics, it is worth looking at year after year, what the situation of VAT collection was like. Download isn't that. The same as the influence. Well, you - and it has to be said very clearly - dear countrymen, the increase in VAT you have supplied nolens volens to the VAT mafia, and by chasing the VAT mafia we have put Polish families into these funds. [[Applause]] Bravo! Unfortunately, this is the old truth one of the writers was talking about. Mario Puzo noted that unfortunately bandits in white collars can sometimes steal more, do more bad than a thousand men with guns. And so it was in the days of the Civic Platform. [[Applause]] Bandits in white collars with a briefcase stole VAT to the power. This, as I said, is a developed banner, and we invite all VAT mobs here. The best confirmation of this is that today we are being consulted by representatives of other Member States of the European Union. We show how we deal with this problem, our Czech, Slovak, Spanish friends, Estonia, Hungary and many other countries. The Minister of Finance presents data in Paris, lectures at the Sorbonne, representatives of international institutions come to us and ask us to show you how it is We did. I'm glad it's been quiet for a while now, because that's what I wanted to say, ladies and gentlemen. Well, this nap in the days of the night watchman of the Civic Platform cost a lot, and we implemented instruments from the big data arsenal, data management. Why are you lying like that? Mrs Skowrońska, I am warning you a second time. We have made a profound reorganisation of the structures and unfortunately the best evidence of what was happening in the times of the Civic Platform is what the head of customs trade unions said: we were not allowed to move, touch fuel. Ladies and gentlemen, this: we were not allowed to move fuel means that we were allowed to do this pathology... Granda! ...it's a bandit robbery that's happened. Let me hear it. We have therefore used the following instruments. It was a fuel package, SENT 1, SENT 2, SENT 3. It's a STIR, which is to verify the flow of customer accounts, such as anti-VAT laundering. I also need a little bit of my banking history... Your time is up. ...because this is the instrument we used, we copied from the AML procedure into the banks. It's finally split payment. This is obviously a JPK, a single control file. [[Game in the O.R.]] How did you vote? This is a reconstruction of the National Tax Administration. [[Applause]] And that's why... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mrs Pomaska, I warn you. 'Cause then you're gonna cry to cancel your punishment, to cancel your punishment. And that is why, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal, today is also the day I have to and I want to thank you. I would like to thank Prime Minister Beata Szydło, who immediately took up this subject in the first weeks of her office, Minister Paul Szalamasha, Minister Marian Banasi... Banasi? ...Mr Teresa Czerwińska, ministers Peter Walczak, Piotr Dziedzic and the current management of the Ministry of Finance, and above all... Banasi. ...workers of the National Tax Administration, Ministry of Finance and Services. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] But that liberal slumber of yours cost more than that. And this is where I talk to entrepreneurs. Dear Entrepreneurs! You know perfectly well how the industry works. When suddenly a crooked entrepreneur comes, a crook, and sells something without VAT, without 23% These extra costs, what happens then? Ladies and gentlemen, the entire industry is being finished. That's why, when I became Minister of Finance, I started reading these magazines that had been sent by various industries before. Electronics industry, fuel industry, construction industry, retail industry - all begged: Minister Rostowski, do something, we are being robbed. Take a look at these writings. Nothing's been done. Unfortunately denied, this basic principle was denied, that the official must be on the side of entrepreneurs. Dear entrepreneurs, we have taken your side, [[Applause]] We chased these VAT mafias and rebuilt the basic competitiveness on the market. Because how is one businessman supposed to compete with someone who's an out-of-the-box crook and brings goods to the market without VAT? Or he's rewriting his wife's estate. Then there's no competition, it's a joke. This was the additional great pathology generated in the times of the Civic Platform. Ladies and gentlemen! But it must also be said that in this growth dynamic there is a characteristic thing not only related to VAT. The VAT impact has increased by approx. 47% , even more - close to 48%. And from 2020, the year of the crisis of the century. However, the CIT impact increased above 54% , from the PIT tax increased above 46%, so there is some correctness. This group, this political camp, the political camp of Law and Justice, the United Right, which seeks to apply the best instruments, most appropriate for fiscal policy, is so successful precisely because year after year it improves methods of analysis, training, processes within the Ministry of Finance. And it is at the root of this success that in the year of the greatest crisis we will have a lower budget deficit than in the times of the Civic Platform, when there was no such crisis. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is worth realizing once again. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Who? I didn't say anything. And it is also worth paying attention to what actually happened in the times of our predecessors. Because they're trying to scream this sad and horrible reality, they're trying to keep it quiet, but those days were characterized by a high degree of pathology, indolence, ignorance and imposibilism... Oh... ...which caused the state budget to be like a thrush, that unfortunately it leaked hundreds of millions and billions of zlotys. And today, it turns out that it is possible that using just a fair, efficient fiscal policy can lead to this - attention, again data from the European Commission - that Poland has been among those countries which since the Civic Platform, since the end of the Civil Platform... Oh... ...from the end of the rule of the Civic Platform until today, the quickest way is to close the VAT gap. [[Applause]] And this, ladies and gentlemen, is a comparison of two realities, two realities diametrically different from each other. Realities in which, as I said at the beginning, we certainly make mistakes, we stumble... It's about your own legs. ...but we're statemen. And all those on the part of the state, on the part of the opposition, who are state-owned, I invite you to vote together on projects that are good for the Polish state, which improve the Polish state. Liberum veto, which was the affliction of the First Republic, is a preface, is the first step towards chaos, to anarchy, and this is a policy that only our enemies, external enemies and internal enemies enjoy. So, of course, I would like to believe that in the case of the opposition, most of the opposition members are simply not knowing. Therefore, I encourage you to familiarize yourself with these basic figures. Civic Platform - raising VAT, probably in 2011, taking OFE, taking half OFE... And you're okay. Why did you keep it? ...the increase of the ZUS contribution, the pension contribution, i.e. the increase of the ZUS, and finally the increase of the retirement age. That's how the Civic Platform patched the hole. After what? After the VAT gap they generate. This record isn't working anymore. Luce VAT, which is shown by the European Commission and other institutions from all over the world, from all over Europe. Just read a series of analyses. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank those who have reversed this state of affairs once again. I'd like to say this: I see your confusion today... [[Joy in the Chamber]] Ha, ha, ha! ...your great embarrassment. How is it possible - the party or part of Mr Budka's party is thinking here - how is it possible that in our time only the collection of VAT has increased, even though we have raised the contribution? And in the times of the United Right government, we have reduced VAT to several hundred articles. A few hundred articles. And you've raised it for a few hundred. And by sealing, by chasing the VAT mob's revenue into the budget increased by almost 50%. [[Applause]] Bravo! Therefore, regardless of your comments, regardless of your threats, we will continue to guard the efficiency of the Polish state. We will continue to pass on to people and to investments what has proved to be a giant pathology in your time. We will do this relentlessly, because we believe that the value of the Polish state is an overriding value, belongs to the common good, which is a condition for the realization of the interests of the entire Polish society, the entire Polish nation. And that is why, ladies and gentlemen, we will win. We're gonna win this argument. It's a lie you've been trying for days with the media - mostly foreign, foreign-led... You're from abroad, too. It's a lie that's so easy to expose, you can expose it very quickly... We showed - on very many graphics, on very many charts, in what I said today, once again emphasized - what reality looked like. We will continue to repair you because we believe that Poland is a strong country, it is a just, solidarity state belonging to the whole nation, it must have an efficient state to carry out its interests. And that's what's gonna happen. Thank you very much. [[Long-term applause]] Some Members get up and chant: Matthew! Matthew! Matthew! What was that? Where are the flowers? Where's the bunch of field flowers?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u158	The screams of the opposition are a testimony of her helplessness, ladies and gentlemen. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Can we take the floor? Mr Boris Budka with a formal request. With a formal application. We'd like some debate.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u159	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With a formal request for a break, a convening of the Seniors Convention and inclusion on the agenda of the debate on the actual state of the state's finances. [[Applause]] You became the master of lies, you became the prime minister, who had to apologize twice for his lies... Liar! ...but today you've done an impossible thing: you've lied more times than there are holes in your estate statement. [[Applause]] Bravo! Specific examples. You did not support solutions that sealed the Polish tax system. You didn't support a single control file, you didn't support any good changes. You were protecting the SKOKs, protecting your guys. Banasia! You're lying. Budka, you liar! Therefore, over PLN 4.5 billion had to be paid out of the state budget. But today you're trying to cover your inability. The Lord is trying to cover the fact that you cannot formulate a reconstruction plan, that 250 billion PLN needed by the Polish economy, the health service needed by local governments can pass through your hands... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] What are you doing? What's this? A sign of powerlessness.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u160	Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski with a formal proposal. One minute. What's this? Please leave the podium. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Sit down, Nitras. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] What's he doing here? It's 1 minute. You can't do that, really. Mr. Budka... Mr. Terlecki, that's how you run an I.P.N. Are you afraid of the truth? No wonder the opposition complains that there is no leader. It's a performance... [[Applause]] And you're the leader that... You're welcome, sir. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u161	Mr. Marshal! You're organizing a debate... One person. ...but you don't want to vote against the opposition. Mr Morawiecki seems to have seen too much public television, because these posts you are talking about, and those lies unfortunately do not sell here. Mother of... It's a shame you're not here, Mr. Kaczyński, because there'd be someone to talk to. But the truth about what you said is in the shops. If you went shopping, if you had your basket, you would know that poverty in Polish homes is greater than the lies you told here. You don't lie. Luka Morawiecki - this is the true truth about your government. Not the VAT gap. Luka Morawiecki. [[Applause]] You've caused the situation that you're saying that 500+ is because you've arranged it. No. That's because all of Poland has put in for this. Tell me the truth. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. What did you give people? You were just taking drugs. The money that's in the budget is not Morawiecki's money or your government's. This is the money of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Poland. Don't lie on that speaker, because the truth will free your government and free you from what should be a lie today... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] But why are you screaming like that? And you didn't interrupt the liars, like 15 minutes...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u162	Mr Krzysztof Bosak with a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u163	Mr. Marshal! I would like to ask you to change the way in which the proceedings are conducted. Here we had a rhetorical show, Mr. Prime Minister's slogans, which we already know very well, polemics with de facto media. Six years are the same. However, at this meeting of the Sejm we have very serious economic points and I am sure that the Prime Minister will not be in the debate, just as there was no Prime Minister or any of the Vice-Presidents or important ministers in the debate on vulnerable industries. [[Applause]] You have sent three Members and Deputy Minister Niebóżak to discuss hundreds of thousands of companies threatened with bankruptcy. We're about to have a debate about the banks. I'm sure the Prime Minister will leave. Then we have a debate about excise duty. You're going to destroy the motorhome remodeling industry. You know that, right? Hasn't that information arrived yet? Then a debate about money laundering. You implement chaotic, mixed rules, one in banking law, the other in the anti-money laundering law. Prime Minister! Do you want to argue with the opposition? Stay here. Show me what you have to say in those... The debate will be. There's nothing to say. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u164	With a formal proposal from Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski. He's been here before. I'd love to do it again. Sorry, Mr Stefan Krajewski, PSL.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u165	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I ask for a formal request to adjourn the sitting and convene the Senior Convention, but for a long time, for Prime Minister Morawiecki to cool off a little... He didn't run away. ...and he remembered - it's about what he just said about Prime Minister Tusk - that someone advised the Prime Minister to do so. We need to go back with a little memory. As far as concrete solutions are concerned, entrepreneurs are waiting for you to finally present a plan for the reconstruction of Poland, not talking about the marketplace, about the liberum veto. It's not in this room. Look for liberum veto in your camp, [[Applause]] because we are able to support you, support you, and support you, but above all, there must be order in you. This is the time for you to finally present this information. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u166	Thank you. The conclusions were not formal. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Law - Bank law and some other laws (prints Nos 859 and 912). So? Who's afraid of debate? I would like to remind you that the Prime Minister has the right to appear at any time in the Sejm. This is not the beginning of the discussion, it is the Prime Minister's speech. You've changed the rules... I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u167	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Law - Bank law and some other laws, signed with number 859. On 9 February, a reading of the draft was held at a committee meeting in accordance with a request sent by the Marshal of the Sejm. After working on this document, this bill... Not easy, I must point out, because there have been hours of work on this document. During the meeting of this committee, it must be noted that there has been a very thorough analysis of the rules. The Legal Office of the Sejm, representatives of the Minister of Finance, as well as a representative of the KNF participated in the entire process of examining the legal document. After many hours of debate and amendments, the committee gave a positive opinion on this document, this draft law. What deserves to be noted is that 34 Members were in favour, zero against and one abstained during this vote. The Commission asks the High Sejm that the draft be adopted by the High House after these changes. In conclusion, just one more remark. The law implements the European Union's rules on capital requirements for financial institutions. This also makes all these provisions have to be accepted, introduced into Polish law, and these requirements of the European Union are met. Thank you, Marshal, very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u168	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. First, Mr Andrzej Noblet, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government draft law amending the law - Bank law and some other laws, print No 859. The aim of this project is to amend banking law as a result of the introduction by the European Union of the rules on capital requirements for capital institutions contained in the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2019, referred to as the CRD V Directive, and in the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2019, also referred to as Regulation CRR II. The CRD V Directive amend Directive 2013/36/EU as regards exempt entities, financial holding companies, mixed financial holding companies, remuneration, supervisory measures and powers and capital protection measures. CRR II amends Regulation No 575/2013 with regard to leverage ratio, net stable financing ratio, own funds and eligible liabilities requirements, counterparty credit risk, market risk, exposures to central counterparties, exposures to collective investment undertakings, large exposures, reporting and disclosure requirements. CRR V and CRR II are elements of the legislative package including the revision of the 2014 Directive as regards the ability to cover losses and recapitalisations of credit institutions and investment firms and the revision of the 2014 Regulation as regards the ability to cover losses and recapitalisations of credit institutions and investment firms. These changes were the result of the financial crisis in 2007 and 2008 and reflect internationally agreed standards. The draft law also contains provisions supplementing the transposition of the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2009 and 2013 on conditions for the admission of credit institutions to the business and prudential supervision of credit institutions and investment firms. These amendments require amendments to the following laws in Polish law: Banking Law of 29 August 1997, the Act on the Functioning of Cooperative Banks of December 2000, the Act on Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego of 2003, the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments of 29 July 2005, the Act on Supervision of the Financial Market of July 2006, the Act on Macroprudential Supervision of the Financial System and Crisis Management in the Financial System of August 2015, the Act on Insurance and Reinsurance Activities of September 2015 and the Act on Banking Guarantee Fund, the Deposit Guarantee Scheme and the Forced Restructuring of June 2016. The regulations contained in this proposal will not affect the activities of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. They won't affect the labour market. The entry into force of this law will not affect the situation and regional development. The evaluation of the effects of the bill will be carried out on an ongoing basis by the Financial Supervision Commission. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support this bill in further legislative work. On behalf of the club, I submit six amendments to this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u170	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Saluga, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u171	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition has the honour to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the draft law amending the law - Bank law and some other laws, print No. 859. The project concerns the implementation of an EU reform to amend the regulation on capital requirements for financial institutions, i.e. Articles 4 (1) point (b) and 4 (1) point (b) of CRR. The proposed changes will result, among others. the extension of the powers of the Commission for Financial Supervision to approve the conduct of these financial institutions' activities. In the project appears e.g. the possibility of ordering banks to comply with the requirement to hold additional own funds with a higher share of capital or core capital. The project will replace the liquidation of the cooperative bank where the bank's own funds fall below the regulatory minimum, i.e. from EUR 1 million by taking over the cooperative bank by another bank. This project also makes it possible to authorise the creation of a new bank subject to the possession of a risk management system and internal control system, as well as to include a scheme of the organisational structure of the group to which the applicant belongs. The draft shall also take into account judicial administrative case-law regarding the procedural legitimacy of a candidate as a member of the board of directors of a supervised entity in the event of an appeal against a decision refusing to act by that candidate. High Izbo! We must realise that this bill, this change is the result of the financial crisis in 2007 and 2008 and a rather late response to this crisis. The Directive is from 2019 and has been adopted before the current crisis and before the introduction of so-called policies across Europe. zero interest rates, which is undoubtedly affecting the financial condition of banks. Banks are losing their profits, profitability is decreasing. Let us hope that these changes will help to make it easier for banks to survive the current times and current government policies. The Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club supports this bill and we will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u172	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Tomasz Trela, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u173	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am pleased on behalf of the Coalition Parliamentary Club Left to present my position on the draft law amending the law - Bank law and some other laws. Of course, we treat this project as an ordering project, a project that adapts national law to the European Union's rules on capital requirements in the case of financial institutions, which is why I am going to start by saying that the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left will support this bill. It concerns, in such a telegraphic summary, the implementation of two European Parliament documents: the CRR II and the CRD. For the purposes of the CRR, it is important to take into account the risk to institutions that are trading in securities and derivatives on a large scale, thereby avoiding too much divergence in those requirements which are not due to the risk profiles of the institution. For the sake of order, for the second CRD, it is a standard methodology used by institutions and a simplified standard interest rate risk assessment methodology in addition to the existing risk management system. I will not repeat the words of my previous speaker and this justification. Once again, as at the outset, on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left, I declare my support for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u174	Thank you. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u175	Mr. Marshal! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, The draft amendment to the Banking Law is a very extensive document, because apart from the law itself, the bank itself, this law proposes to amend seven other laws, including the Act on the functioning of cooperative banks, their association and the banks of associations, the Act on Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments, the Law on Financial Market Supervision, the Act on Macro-prudential Supervision of Financial System and Crisis Management in Financial System, the Act on Insurance and Insurance Activities, as well as the Act on Bank Guarantee Fund, the Deposit Guarantee Scheme and the Forced Restructuring. As a result, the proposed changes will affect at least 30 commercial and state banks, 535 cooperative banks and 35 branches of foreign banks. It is therefore not only a comprehensive document, but also a very important document. It was created as a result of the need to transfer to the Polish legal order four EU regulations already adopted by Parliament and the Council of the European Union more than 18 months ago. They consist of a legislative package, which is the result of the reform carried out by the European Union. This involves changing the regulatory framework for financial services provided within the Community. These changes respond to the financial crisis that broke out in Europe in 2007 and 2008. They reflect the wider than only the EU's arrangements, because they were developed in a wider group than the EU, on an international dimension, of the global financial market. In practice, they stem from the introduction into national legal systems of new provisions concerning the approval of mixed financial holding companies and mixed financial holding companies, which may be the parent undertakings of groups of capital, banking groups, and therefore it is necessary to apply prudential requirements to them, since so far these companies have not been subject to adequate financial supervision. The second major innovation is the holding of an EU intermediary entity by a third country group, provided that at least two institutions established in the European Union are part of such a group and the total value of assets in the European Union of that third country group is equivalent to EUR 10 billion, EUR 40 billion or more. This will enable the financial supervisory authority in one of the EU countries to supervise the activities of such a large group. The new regulations which are introduced in the framework of this amendment also give the Commission's financial supervision authority to dismiss a member of the management board of the bank, a financial holding company and a mixed financial holding company as well as a member of the management board of the brokerage house where such a person does not meet the requirements necessary to perform the function in question. The project discussed today was already the subject of work at first reading at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance. As a result, a number of amendments have been introduced, e.g. clarified the rules on remuneration applied by banks and brokerage houses which are not large institutions, which we believe, in the opinion of the Polish Coalition Club, is moving in the desired direction, i.e. towards the application of the principle of proportionality, and consequently reducing reporting and administrative obligations in the case of smaller financial institutions. As a consequence, the amendments adopted by the Public Finance Commission on banks and brokerage houses are also to be required to provide information to the NCF on gender pay differentials, which, in our view, is also a step in the right direction. Similarly, we assess the amendment proposed by the Committee on Public Finance which gives the rigour of the finality and immediate feasibility of the decision to impose a fine on the persons responsible and the members of supervisory boards and credit institutions, as well as those which clarify the provisions on suspicion of crime and the risk of committing a crime in the activities of a bank, financial holding company or mixed financial holding company. Given that we are dealing mainly with the implementation of EU law, which is due to expire because the time for implementing directives and regulations was 18 months from May 2019 and that these solutions are going in the right direction, the Polish Coalition club is in favour of adopting this law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We will, of course, look at the amendments that have been tabled, announced today by the Law and Justice Club. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u176	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u177	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Let me start by saying that the Prime Minister was just in the Chamber, and when the discussion about banking regulation started, the Prime Minister in our Chamber disappeared. It is a pity, because Mr PiS, who referred to these issues before me, even confused the names of EU directives to be implemented in Poland. I would appeal to the ruling party, however, for greater sensitivity to this subject. This is undoubtedly an important issue, because the failure to regulate the banking system was one of the causes of the financial crisis in 2008. At the moment, all of us, both in the European Union and in Poland, are smarter and we pay more attention to what banks are doing, because we realise that it is not just the individual responsibility of banks, it is not just a systemic risk for the banking system, but it is a responsibility for the whole economy. The Left is wrong - here I turn left - saying that the financial crisis was proof of the bankruptcy of capitalism. The fact is that the causes of the problems of European banks or banks in Poland - just recently, in December we had a case of forced restructuring of one of the banks, which could not cope with internal problems - were in the private sector as well as in the public sector. These regulatory errors, and even incentives in the form of guarantees for the development of over-credit, led to problems which subsequently created the financial crisis. At the moment, the European Union is tightening up capital requirements and it is hard to deny that capital requirements are the right instrument to prevent banks from being tempted to take excessive risks in order to achieve a profit higher than that resulting from healthy and standard market activities. However, the provisions in question have been enriched - and this is a bad tradition when it comes to implementing EU rules - with different other rules from different areas. At this meeting of the Sejm, we also process the law on money laundering at a completely separate point. I wonder why this is the law that included e.g. rules on new competences for the Financial Supervision Commission enabling the veto of members of banking authorities on the basis of suspicion of terrorist financing and money laundering and whether these rules should not be included in the Anti-Money Laundering Act. What's more, why this is all about art crimes. 165 and Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 299 Criminal Code, why e.g. are excluded from such offences as disclosure of banking secrecy, obstruction of supervisory activities, misleading the supervisory authority, fraud, forgery of documents and other crimes typical of those who have problems with integrity in the financial sector? I would like to point out that this is not a trivial matter because, according to the proposal of the provisions which the Sejm received, it is intended to be possible for KNF to veto members of the authorities of banks who not only committed such crimes, but also in the event of a legitimate suspicion of committing a crime, as well as a legitimate suspicion of attempted crime. A horse with a row of who will explain how to decide what is a reasonable suspicion of attempted crime and how KNF will now judge such cases. And this is just one of the hundreds of details in this bill that I wanted to draw attention to. I'm counting on someone in the government to lean on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u178	Thank you. Mr Michał Urbaniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! By taking advantage of the time allocated to the Confederation, after Mr Krzysztof Divinska presented what the Law was about, what should be done with it, I will allow myself to refer to another topic which, after all, also affects Poles and corresponds in general with banking law. Well, I'm getting signals -- I'd like to point out -- that credit clients are very often starting to meet with basically the drama that is the consequence of a credit vacation. In the first crisis shields there are records that customers have the right to suspend payments for a certain period of time. It was, of course, a perfectly correct record. On the other hand, customers who have suspended these loans - the banks have made extra money on this, because these loans have been converted - unfortunately they have to suffer today because of the fact that they are essentially colluding in trade, which is the problem of banks not giving new loans before... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you, sir. ...they gave it to me. And the problem is that... Thank you, sir. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u180	Five Members have asked questions. As the first Mr Wojciech Saluga, the Civic Coalition. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u181	Minister! By proceeding with this bill, it is impossible not to lean on the current state of the banking sector, but also on the issue of draining Polish wallets through a policy of zero interest rates and the largest inflation in the European Union, which makes Poles have nothing to do with savings achieved over the years, because in the bank there is no more reason to save. Moreover, the banks themselves confirm this by eliminating the service, the product that is to place, and less and less of this product appears on the market. I have a question for the Minister: What will you advise Poles about what to do with their savings? If not the bank, where? They're supposed to take stock risk and play the stock market? Invest in cryptovaluty? What should Poles do with savings? On the other hand, banks' profitability is decreasing, profits are decreasing, franc loan reserves... In this area, the chaos is pretty big, the banks don't know what to do. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are the banks supposed to focus on just giving... Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. ...buying government bonds? I don't think that's what banks are for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u182	There's no envoy. Mr Dariusz Rosati, also the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u183	Dear Marshal, Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! It is a pity that the government, when preparing to adapt the law - Bank law to European regulations, did not deal with the condition of the banking sector in Poland, because this condition is very weak at the moment. I wanted to ask if the government saw this sudden deterioration in the financial situation of the banks. I wanted to ask if the government can see that the extremely low interest rates of NBP lead banks to stop lending and people stop holding deposits. Doesn't the government see that the banking tax, which in Poland adopted a curian form of asset taxation, affects that banks will not lend, will invest their assets in government bonds? In short, does the government have a plan - I am not talking about Zdzisław's plan - a serious plan for Polish banks to improve their financial situation? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u184	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Noblechta, Law and Justice. There's no envoy? I'm here. You're an MP.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The explanatory memorandum states that the revision of banking law will not affect micro, medium and small enterprises, that it will be neutral for regional development, will not affect the labour market. I wanted to ask you specifically about this project. Will these changes in the draft law - Bank law and in these seven other laws have any impact on public finances? Is there an area that can generate additional revenue to the state budget or cause losses? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u186	Thank you very much. Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u187	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! This law implements an EU solution to the Polish legislation, which aims to increase the security of the banking system. This is a requirement for us to be present in the European Union and a sector as sensitive as the financial sector requires full compliance. We know, we have experience that these negative, bad functioning was, among others. the cause of the crisis after 2008 that the system was not properly supervised. At present the situation is more clear, banks are supposed to be in better shape from the formal side, but as far as their economic situation is concerned with the possibility of supporting, creating solutions in the economy, they cease in some sense to be banks (the Bell) which could inspire certain economic processes. What is the situation with regard to the condition and security of the banks?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u188	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. As amendments were tabled at the second reading of the bill, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. The rapporteur? May I? Good. The Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance would also like to speak. Maybe later. Later, right? That is also where Mr Sipiera is. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u189	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Literally two sentences. In fact, we can thank you on behalf of the committee, because it was the committee that dealt with this formal document and worked it quite thoroughly. You can see that the effect is very good - there is no motion for rejection today or for far-reaching consequences, for which I can only thank. Once again, I would like to thank the representatives of the Minister of Finance, the KNF, as well as the Legislative Bureau. Although this is an implementation, but it is a matter of our law, i.e. we can do, we can communicate and we can also work well, which I, as rapporteur, wanted to point out from this speaker. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u190	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Patkowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, now has the floor. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer the question, I would like to start with a brief answer for Mr Bosak, who did not ask questions, but, in his speech, said that the government is introducing, implementing EU rules, also issues that are not coming directly from the rules. I'd like to calm down here. These issues, which Mr Bosak was talking about, stem directly from the directive, but as regards the issue which he referred to in the warranty survey by the KNF, I would like to point out that there has been a legislative return here, in particular, which means that this is not a closed catalogue. It is an open directory and KNF, examining the warranty of candidates, examining everything that affects such a guarantee, so that I calm down here. The catalogue is not closed and if there are such reasons as you have said and could affect such a guarantee, the KNF will certainly take them into account. The other questions that were raised mainly concerned the financial situation of the banks. Perhaps it is not appropriate, but Professor Rosati used the phrase "the deterioration of the situation of banks" - of course, it is about the deterioration of the bank's profits. I would like to point out that the banking sector is still a profitable sector, so that it is difficult to say that this sector is in a state of crisis. Of course, profits have deteriorated, but it is difficult to talk about the crisis in this sector. There was also an argument that government policy leads to a reduction in credit. I think that lending is mainly limited as a result of the aid schemes that have been offered, and mainly the demand for turnover credits is falling. I think it's nice that entrepreneurs don't take turnover credits in situations of major crisis. It means that government programs are actually effective and that we can enjoy it. On the other hand, in order not to remain literal, I would like to refer, as far as the banking sector is concerned, to the results for the fourth quarter, because according to the reporting methodology based on the CRR, the solvency ratio of the banking sector at the end of September 2020 was 20.4%. This is the last available data. In the commercial bank segment, this ratio increased to 20.5%; in the cooperative bank segment, the solvency ratio slightly increased to 18.8%. The Tier 1 capital ratio in the banking sector at the end of September 2020 is 18.4%; in the commercial banking sector it is 18.4%; in the cooperative banking sector it is 18.2%. This means that the solvency ratio of the banking sector in Poland is high, providing capital buffers. At the same time, a slightly newer report, the report of the National Bank of Poland of December 2020 on the stability of the financial system, also unambiguously evaluates positively the banking system. So I'm also sending it back to this report. There are many calming Members of the House of Information. Finally, I would like to address Mr Nobleman's question. I assure you that neither public finances nor the SME sector will be affected by these rules. This is a regulatory and orderly banking system, while there is no risk for SMEs or the public finance system here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u192	Thank you, Minister. I closed the discussion, the project has already been referred back to the finance committee. Let's move on to the next points. The Public Finance Commission submitted a report on the Government's draft law amending the National Population and Housing Register Act in 2021, print No 968. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We therefore proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Customs Law and certain other laws (prints Nos 833 and 889). I don't think that's the point. I think it's one too far, Marshal. Exactly. I think we've left ten. I'm glad you noticed. The opposition is watching. Money laundering. Indeed. We are moving forward with the consideration of item 10 of the agenda, which is also the report of the Committee on Public Finance. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act and some other laws (Prints Nos 909 and 914). Yes. I would like to ask Mrs Eve Szymanska to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u193	Dear Marshal, Gentlemen of Ministers! High Seym! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act and some other laws in print No. 909. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed on 25 January 2021 the above draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for first reading. The Public Finance Commission, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 10 February 2021, asks the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u194	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mrs Ewa Szymańska on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u195	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the draft law amending the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act and some other laws. The draft law presented in print No 909 aims to implement Directive 2018/843 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018 amending previous Union legislation and clarifies the provisions of the existing Law of 1 March 2018. The changes included in the project include: clarification of the list of obliged institutions, including by adding to it traders engaged in trading or intermediation in the trading of works of art, collectors' items and antiques, as well as storage, trading or intermediation in the trading of such goods. These are transactions with a value equal to or exceeding the equivalent of 10 000. the euro regardless of whether this transaction is carried out as a single operation or several operations which appear to be linked. The project contains details of some definitions, including: the beneficial owner, the Member State and the group. It shall include an extension of the scope of the statistics collected by the General Financial Information Officer and a clarification of the rules on the application by the institutions of the financial security measures required, as well as their action on high risk relations with third countries. It shall specify the rules for the institution's retention of documents and information resulting from the application of financial security measures. It introduces an obligation to publish and update a list of public posts and functions which, under national law, can be classified as politically exposed positions. It introduces mechanisms for verifying the data contained in the Central Register of Actual Recipients. It introduces the obligation to register currency exchange service providers between virtual and fiducional currencies. All these solutions are designed to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing, so our club, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, supports this government bill and recommends that it be adopted by the High House. At the same time, I am proposing two amendments clarifying this draft law and ask for this draft law to be adopted together with the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u196	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u197	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The draft law we are talking about has been consulted with organisations bringing together the required institutions, among others. banks and non-bank financial institutions. It introduces e.g. a broader catalogue of obliged institutions, new powers and duties of the General Inspector for Financial Information, changes in the field of identification and verification of the client and the beneficial owner as well as new registers. The rapporteur has already mentioned this. I would add that most of the proposed provisions are indeed due to the need to regulate the EU directive into the Polish legal order, and it is clear that these provisions are intended to build an appropriate coherent mechanism not only in the Member States but also in some way coherent across Europe, and therefore absolutely need to be supported. However, I have some comments I would like to make on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club. The first point concerns close to an annual delay in this implementation. The project should have been adopted on 10 January 2020 and we are only leaning on it now. I asked this at the meeting of the finance committee, and as far as I understand the difficulties resulting from the transposition of Community law, often based on common law, into Polish order, so slowly such delays in the implementation of EU directives have already become a tradition of this government. Even if this does not always result in penalties on the part of the European Union, it almost always results in hasty, incomplete consultations, the writing of law on the knee, a lot of amendments made during the legislative process. This really is not needed and I am allergic once again and I ask the government to be more disciplined in this respect, especially in the case of such complex and complex matter and involving a multitude of actors. My second point concerns consultation and, in principle, their effect. The consultation was indeed quite broad, but unfortunately you have not decided to take into account some of the most reasonable amendments tabled by the participants in the consultation. I am talking about provisions which are clearly excessive in relation to the directive and impose additional obligations on institutions. As an example, let us refer to the provision that obliged institutions should apply financial security measures to customers with whom they maintain economic relations, in particular. where pre-established customer or beneficial owner data have been changed. In this way, even a change in the address of the beneficial owner will require a re-verification of the customer. This was noted, for example. The Legislative Council, as well as the Confederation of Leviathan. However, in the expert opinion only key changes, such as, for example, concerning the ownership structure, should consequently lead to a re-analysis of the client's risk. The project also assumes the introduction of a mechanism for verifying the data contained in the Central Register of Recipients by increasing the responsibilities of the obliged institutions. The institution will be required to record discrepancies between the information collected in the CRBR and the information on the actual customer's beneficiary established by it and to take steps to explain the reasons for those discrepancies. Then, in case of identification of discrepancies, the institution required to provide the CRBR with the verified information, together with the justification and the relevant documentation. Such a wording of the proposed provision de facto transfers the obligation to ensure that the data contained in the CRBR are reliable and accurate from the State to the institutions. I am not sure that this was the intention expressed in the implementing directive, especially since the institutions are obliged to have different, sometimes very limited, possibilities to verify data contained in CRBR, video e.g. Notaries on a one-off transaction. This is so important that countering terrorist financing and money laundering in recent years is becoming not only a method of preventing crime, but also a powerful tool for monitoring the lives of citizens, as well as a source of extremely burdensome responsibilities for entrepreneurs. Therefore, the Civic Coalition Club, in support of the proposed novel in principle, hopes that in the course of further work on the project, Members will continue to lean on these details so as to remove excess obligations from the project and make this necessary project more friendly to the institutions bound. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u198	Thank you very much. Now Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u199	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we had an unexpected speech by the Prime Minister, but probably also related to this bill. On behalf of the Left Club, I am pleased to present my position on the draft Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act. The Prime Minister has talked a lot about VAT gap, VAT, budget implications, and this will probably be part of a very serious discussion. I hope the finance committee will take care of this, because I think more propaganda in all this than real action. Speaking of the gray area, speaking of extortion of VAT... Somehow these funds must be back in the banking system and this law, among others. That's exactly what he's talking about. One question arises in this context. If the government cares so much about it, fighting the mob, then why does it work in this case as if it didn't want to fight them, as if it didn't want to raise additional funds to the state budget? Let me just remind you that this Directive was adopted in 2015 and amended in 2018. We were to implement these changes into Polish law very quickly. We didn't do it. We are not doing this until the European Union threatens us with a finger and says: we are about to implement procedures to mobilise you. It turns out that in this case, the European Union is an organism that is able to jointly, I stress, jointly prevent money laundering and possibly also use it for terrorist activities. Of course, in addition to the implementation of the law, it is also important how all this will be coordinated. The number of institutions in each country, including Poland, is enormous. A picture emerges from this, in which the Internal Security Agency will, in short, coordinate all activities aimed at catching attempts to launder money. Well, that's a good thing, 'cause that's what she's supposed to be doing anyway. I am only afraid that if it acts as it did in the case of masks or ventilators, it will lead to this type of transactions - there probably also have been frauds, which caused obvious losses - it is not known whether our services, including the National Tax Administration, are prepared for this. It is a good thing that there is a register of entities operating for companies and trusts. Indeed, entrepreneurs will have more responsibilities today and I think - my esteemed previous speaker said this - that we need to pay attention to not being oversized. Entrepreneurs already have a lot of administrative problems. It is a good thing that the issue of virtual currencies and their circulation has finally emerged. That's probably part of money laundering, too. I think it is worthwhile to take care of what is happening in Poland. The question is whether the government controls what happens on all public collection sites. There are billions of zlotys going through there right now. The question is, where do these measures come from, whether this is also part of this? I think if the national anti-money laundering system works well, it will do its job. There is only such concern - this is the concern that we will keep reporting - whether sometimes this national system and all the information you will have about us - about Poles and entrepreneurs - you will not use in some way. The impression, however, is that all of us in Poland are increasingly under surveillance, that all of us in Poland are being watched more and more by the authorities. The boundary between the fight against terrorism and money laundering and the exploitation of this knowledge in its political activities is very thin. I think such fuses are needed in this bill. In principle, the Left will support this project, [[♪ The bell ♪]] because it is the source of additional revenue to the state budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u200	Thank you. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u201	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The draft amendment to the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act and some of the other laws that we are currently discussing is another project submitted by the government resulting from the change of EU law. This concerns in particular the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 November 2018. This is a directive on securing the use of the financial system for money laundering or terrorist financing. The direct reason for the changes to this regulation was the analysis of financial flows to finance the terrorist attacks that took place several years ago in France and Belgium, as well as information disclosed by the international journalistic investigation on the so-called "news" case. Panama Papers. The clear objective of the changes proposed by the European Union was to ensure greater transparency of financial flows and thus to increase the effectiveness of the detection of funds from criminal activities, in particular measures to finance terrorist actions. So what does the European Union propose? Firstly, to clarify the rules on actions taken by economic operators having relations with high risk countries outside the European Union, secondly, to improve the execution of transactions carried out using virtual currencies, thirdly, to limit the use of anonymous prepaid instruments, fourthly, to provide law enforcement authorities with rapid access to information on bank and payment account holders and, fifthly, to increase transparency in the area of information on beneficial owners of real corporate entities and legal arrangements. On the other hand, how do these recommendations, and in principle the European Union is very firm on this issue - want to implement the Polish government in the proposed amendment of the law? First of all, the government proposes to extend the so-called list. obliged institutions, i.e. private entities, which are obliged to cooperate with public authorities in typing suspicious transactions and informing the General Financial Information Inspector thereof. Thus, in the light of the amended law, entrepreneurs engaged in trade in or mediation in works of art, collectors and antiques will also be included in the current list if they carry out transactions equal to or exceeding the equivalent of 10 000. The euro, and it doesn't have to be a one-off transaction, it could be a few transactions that give the impression that they're connected. In addition, the amendment extends the scope of statistics collected by the General Financial Information Inspector. The new Act also clarifies the principles of financial security, especially for entrepreneurs, those who are included in the list of obliged institutions, in relations with countries, with entities, with partners from third countries, from outside the European Union, especially from high risk countries. The Act, this amendment also requires the registration of virtual currency exchange service providers and virtual currency account providers, and also provides - more so for all of us here in the Chamber - the obligation to publish and update the selection of public positions and functions that qualify as prominent political positions. The scope of the new regulations is very wide, because it appeals... However, it affects not only new economic operators, but also, as I have already said, especially companies involved in the marketing and marketing of works of art, antiques and collectors' items. In principle, it covers about 650 financial institutions, including banks, credit institutions, as well as cooperative savings and credit banks. In the course of the Commission's first reading work, amendments were tabled to provide the general inspector with financial information on the central system of information on bank accounts and accounts held in cooperative savings and credit banks, and in our opinion these amendments are acceptable, which is why the Polish Coalition Club will support the project submitted and is ready for further work on its completion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u202	Thank you. Mr Michał Urbaniak, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u203	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The administration naturally works people who are accounted for by the fact that they create new regulations, standards and are able to produce them almost every day. This is essentially a pathology at decision level and a complete misunderstanding of what the state should be and what is needed for Poles. With my sincere and high respect for state institutions, to the achievements of many previous generations the state should be a friend of the citizen, the Polish state should be a political tool for all Poles. I am loathing here to see how grotesque it is ridiculed and sold in the hands of EU bureaucrats who are obsessed with trying to control every aspect of human life. You could say that I don't agree with this anymore on such a mental and philosophical level. In fact, the draft law amending the Law on Anti-Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and some other laws, which was conducted at this meeting of the Sejm on the pretext of the fight against terrorism and anti-money laundering, will lead to full surveillance of the accounts of all Poles. This is also essentially due to the introduction of the directive, which is inspired by the fact that several years ago, in 2015, Islamic radicals in Belgium and France carried out bombings. Under this pretext, the Union is hand in hand with the Polish Government in principle introducing rules that will allow for the control of the flows of all of us. It is not our consent to prevent Poles from being under surveillance without suspicion of actual terrorism. We need to be clear about this. Today it is assumed that this will be done by Polish services, but who will give us a guarantee that in a year or two years' time these prerogatives will not be transferred to EU bureaucrats in Brussels. We don't know that. It's orwellism, and we just don't agree. Pathology, which cannot be accepted, is also the fact that it is a simple way to the project "Polish non-cash" which is highly praised by Minister Kościński and which will in principle allow that many Poles, e.g. those who do not think rightfully, who do not agree, for example. with the government or with the left-liberal establishment, it will fall out of the financial trading system and will not even be able to pay for proverbial bread. That's not our agreement, and we'll be against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u204	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Bosak, also near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In the previous item on the agenda concerning the implementation of EU directives on capital requirements for banks, I pointed out that there are also provisions on anti-money laundering or allegations of terrorist financing and new competences of the Financial Supervision Commission are added. For the record, I think it would be appropriate for all of this to be included in one piece of legislation. With regard to the proposals of the European Union to be implemented in Polish law here, our concern is the level of expansion of services entitled to analytical and information activities. I would like to point out that apart from institutions such as the Internal Security Agency or the Intelligence Agency, we have added e.g. The Marshal's Guard, the institution responsible for the protection of a particular complex of parliament buildings, has been added to the fire department. It really seems like it's all going a little too far. It can also be seen that the European Union has targeted cryptovaluta here, wants to monitor prepaid card systems, cryptovalut exchanges, and enforce certain information obligations. This is, ladies and gentlemen, to a certain extent the fight against windmills, because we know, everyone who is interested in the financial system and technological progress, knows that the so-called industry. FinTech or modern payment system solutions are developing very dynamically and in fact regulators are not keeping pace with the dynamic development of this sector in every respect. I would also like to point out that, in addition to combating money laundering and terrorist financing, these regulations, which we are talking about here, are used politically, not necessarily in accordance with Polish interests, namely to enforce international sanctions. Here Polish financial institutions and Polish clients of these institutions will bear the costs of implementing sanctions imposed by large, strong international partners of our country. I mean mostly the United States. The last argument against such regulation is simply their inefficiency. We do not have time to quote scientific research (The Bell), but it is a common thread of discussion on this subject. The more complicated these systems are, the less effective they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u206	Thank you very much. Four Members have asked questions. I'm closing the list of questions. Time - 1 minute. Mr Michał Grammar, the Civic Coalition, is the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u207	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I have a question about the new sound of the art. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4. There are wordings such as complex transactions, transactions involving high amounts, transactions carried out in an unusual way or, finally, transactions which appear to have no economic or legal justification. None of these concepts are defined in the draft law. The lack of this final focus was highlighted by the parties with whom the draft law was consulted. Ubi ius incertum, ibi ius nullum, which is where the law is unclear, there is no law. Do you not fear that such terms will be used e.g. against Polish entrepreneurs? I firmly believe that these vague concepts very strongly reduce the quality of your solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u208	Thank you. Mr Dariusz Rosati, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u209	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I wanted to ask the Minister what is the scale of the suspicious transactions that are reported to the Chief Financial Information Inspector. Perhaps you'd like to give me the data for last year. Whether the head office of the inspector is sufficiently staffed and materially equipped to make all these transactions, so-called. suspicious transactions, which Mr Grammar has just spoken of, precisely deciphering? The second question is: What is the share in the Polish banking system or the scale of accounts held by non-residents from countries outside the European Union, especially those of the former Soviet Union? These are the main suspicious countries... Non-residents from those countries are the main perpetrators of various money laundering practices. I'd like to know if the Ministry of Finance has such discernment. Finally, the question you did not answer: What about this bank tax? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you think that the asset tax is the applicable tax?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u210	Thank you very much. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation. There's no envoy. Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u211	As a result of my observation and analysis of my stay in the European Parliament, I highly appreciate the Union's efforts to increase supervision, reduce money laundering or terrorism in the financial area. I think that here these experiences of EU officials are extremely large, although I also have some comments about the functioning of the entire lobbying system, which is also at European Union level. Of course, we have a number of inspections that coordinate, oversee the banking system, insurance system, stock exchanges, so we can say that we have a lot of things solved at EU level. But how does this work in these non-EU relations? Because there are no institutions on a global scale that have some supervision, some control, including tax havens. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How do we find ourselves in this area, what kind of cooperation we have, and how are security systems shaped? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u212	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Sebastian Skuza, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, will speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u213	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! To answer the question about complex transactions and their definitions, I would like to say that these are the concepts directly covered by the directive. To a certain extent, they will always be subjective in nature, and their definition does not seem appropriate to the full. One could only think of something in particular - e.g. the issue of transactions of the same or similar nature, or e.g. suspected of sharing some invoices to veil or hide the correct amount of such a transaction. With regard to the issue of the equipment of the Financial Information Inspector General's Office, the figure is about 80 posts. As far as activity is concerned, 669 notices were sent to the DA's office in 2020. This was an increase of around 13%. in relation to 2019. As regards the amount relating to the blockades, approximately PLN 260 million were blocked in 2020. Also here is a certain increase, about 14,8% , in relation to 2019. The question of banking tax is not the subject of a general statement by the Financial Information Inspector and even the bill has not been amended by the Act on Tax on Certain Financial Institutions. With regard to issues related to the international approach, this is the international FAT institution which creates such global guidelines, good practices, rules for the functioning of AML cells on a global scale, not only in the European Union. As has been said here, these are solutions coming from more American than European law, so that there were also some difficulties in implementing the law. I can say that countries such as: Belgium, the Netherlands or Austria have already been sued for not implementing the AML rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u214	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the law - Customs law and some other laws (prints Nos 833 and 889). I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u215	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Customs Law and some other laws, the printing of Seym No 833. At its 25th meeting of 21 January 2021, the Sejm shall be held in accordance with Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. The Public Finance Commission, after considering the above draft law at its meeting on 11 February 2021, asks the High Sejm to adopt the draft law. Here I will add a few more words of explanation or information for the High House. Firstly, this draft law submitted by the government after a long debate and many comments, conclusions and amendments at the committee meeting was not voted negative. The votes of 33 Members 25 were in favour, no one was against, 8 abstained. This indicates that we have worked on this in a broad consensus. It should also be noted that it is a law compatible with EU law and that such an opinion also exists under that law. The main purpose of this is to harmonise and streamline the issue of customs and tax decisions relating primarily to fuels and emission charges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u216	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. First, Mr Andrzej Noblet, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u217	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government draft law amending the Customs Law and some other laws. As I pointed out at the first reading of this draft law, the main objective of the amendment is to simplify and streamline the regulation of customs and tax obligations and the fuel levy and issue fee for imports of goods. The amendment is intended to reduce the formalities relating to the import of goods, including the reporting obligation. The main changes include: appointment of the Head of the National Tax Administration in place of the Minister responsible for these matters, deformisation of the person's entry on the list of customs agents, appointment of the head of the customs and treasury office in place of the head of the tax office as the competent authority for the acceptance of information on the issue fee, clarification of the provisions of the excise duty Act in respect of imports of goods, deformisation, simplification and shortening of the procedure for carrying out gambling cases, harmonisation of customs and treasury controls, the possibility for the head of the customs and treasury office to apply the issue fee in an administrative execution procedure. During the work of the Committee on Public Finance and the detailed discussion of this draft law, minor changes were made to the agreement with editorial legislators, which is why Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support the adoption of this draft law in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u218	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Coalition, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u219	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! This is, of course, the second reading of the draft law on amending the law - Customs law. We have already had the opportunity to discuss this at the previous meeting of the Committee on Public Finances, but let me once again draw your attention and highlight the most important issues that arise from this debate. The bill concerns changes in three key areas. The first is the right to operate and operate importers. It is worth noting that customs and tax proceedings are currently conducted separately for these issues. Of course, as a result of these proceedings, depending on what kind of documents are issued, there are even several of these decisions. The aim of this project is to condense and make these rules more transparent, which will result in a single decision being taken for the whole of this issue. The second area, of course, includes changes in the fuel and emission charge regulations. At this point, changes have been proposed which adapt the fuel levy rules to the provisions of the excise duty Act and, moreover, give the possibility to apply for reimbursement of the fuel levy. It should be noted here that it will actually be refunded in the cases and on the basis of the arrangements laid down for the refund of excise duty, and this refund will be made at the request of the entity which is entitled to such reimbursement. One more issue concerns technical solutions. It is precisely that, after the proposed legislation is introduced, the head of the customs and treasury office will become the authority that will accept information about the issue fee, of course in the case of imports of motor fuels. Now this information is being submitted to the head of the tax office, so as I mentioned, this is a technical change. The third area, which seems to raise the biggest debate at the committee meeting, includes changes in gambling areas. Firstly, it has been pointed out that today, in the 21st century, these decisions or all the information that they provide should be communicated by electronic means. It's natural today. I believe that the administration should be adapted to the challenges and opportunities of technological development on such issues. Moreover, two amendments were proposed here, which we discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance. The first concerns the amendment of the current law, which indicates that in the place, in the premises where the activity related to slot machines has so far been illegally carried out, it could not have been legalised or carried out for a period of 5 years. You are proposing and the government is proposing to take a picture of this provision. The second point is precisely the change in the need for audiovisual material to be stored by those involved in such activities. In the case of casinos and places where there are slots, the law now refers to 3-year storage of this audiovisual material. This period for casinos is 3 years, while the period for slot machines is reduced to 1 year. We agree that these two provisions, which the government wants to amend, should be in the wording in force, as it is written in the Act, if I remember correctly, from 2017. So, paying attention to the whole and to the legitimacy of these issues, it should be noted that to a large extent this is facilitating procedural issues for entrepreneurs and making this service easier simply because there will be a single procedure, but there are also issues relating to gambling law which we believe are related to the loosening of those requirements which have been applied so far. I make three amendments to the Marshal on these two areas, so that these provisions on these matters concerning gambling regulations do not change, but leave them as they were. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u220	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u221	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, today's meeting of the Sejm on money, budget, VAT, money laundering is probably a complete accident. But that's what happened, and we have another bill, which, of course, should be procedated. I want to dispel these doubts right away. The Left Club is in favour of the amendment of the law - Customs law and other laws proceding, because yet we are aware that the flow of information, the exchange of information, the simplification of procedures is a very important thing. Let me just remind you that the National Tax Administration today imposes additional obligations on this Act, and that this earlier Act also imposes additional obligations when we are talking about money laundering, and already many obligations have already been imposed, as the Prime Minister said - for example, VAT sealing and how it was done. I don't want to discuss it again, 'cause that's probably the subject. for another meeting, for another body. So there's a lot of responsibilities. And the question is whether the government is really wondering how to strengthen the National Tax Administration, for example as regards issues related to equipment, as regards issues related to the whole ICT database, human and employee issues. We know how the National Tax Administration started. There was a huge amount of lawsuits at the labour court. Notabene wonders what happened to it. There was a lot of tension between IRS and customs. Today you can see clearly, after all there were signals, I think the Minister intervened in this matter, that they have so many tasks in tax offices, customs and treasury, that they are not able to carry out these tasks simply. In all this on the principles of the law and on all these issues concerning simplifications from the point of view of the potential entrepreneur and client of this administration, this is a good direction, but the question arises whether this administration will simply endure. Of course, we increase competence, centralize, harmonise the modes of control. These are all the things that really need to be done, but the question is whether the National Tax Administration will actually be able to do so. Of course, there are reservations about gambling about casinos. It's probably also in the context of government policy right now that these casinos are being opened despite the pandemic. That's an interesting policy, too. Indeed, there is a question about casinos and gaming salons, about their location. That's what we talked about at the committee meeting. The left is strongly in favour of the rules that have so far been in force, because it is difficult for the director to decide where the arcade is to be located in Szczecin on a one-man basis. There are rules, distances from public facilities, etc. I think it should stay that way. These new tasks are, but one thing frightens us. That's what I have to tell you. I don't know if the government should think about one thing, because it's gonna be, I think, a symbol that's gonna show that you guys are serious about customs. Tell me, Minister, why are there chaplains in the National Tax Administration? Why do they work there? Why are there priests in the tax administration for state money? Are they supposed to pray for an increase in VAT revenues? Are they supposed to pray for more influence from PIT and CIT? We pay public money to the chaplains at the National Tax Administration. The show of goodwill on your part will be the support of the Left project, which we made in the Sejm, which lies in the Sejm, to resolve all agreements with priests chaplains (the bell) in the National Tax Administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u222	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland. There's no envoy? Remotely. Remotely. You're welcome. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u223	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Coalition Poland would like to present our position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the law - Customs law and some other laws, print No. 833. In our view, what does the project bring about in terms of the most important positive aspects? First of all, one procedure is sufficient to collect from the importer all charges due, both customs and tax. In addition, foreigners working in our country will be able to receive a PESEL number, which will make it easier for the fiscal to identify them. Another issue is to simplify and shorten the procedures for handling gambling cases, including: by enabling operators to provide information specified in the Gambling Act by electronic means. The project also provides for the reimbursement of the fuel levy. It shall be returned in the cases and in accordance with the conditions laid down for the refund of excise duty at the request of the person entitled to such refund. The most important novelties that we find in it, which are the benefit of this project, and I would like to stress that, certainly, will translate into a reduction in the bureaucracy faced by both businesses importing goods from outside the European Union and their professional plenipotentiaries. And this must certainly be counted as an advantage. On the other hand, I would also like to point out what Mr Jacek Protasiewicz pointed out at the first reading of this project, that our concerns are raised by some solutions concerning gambling. This is probably not a particularly original voice in the debate. This is particularly the case for art. 15 Gambling Act, which aims to remove barriers to blocking gaming salons on slots. We read the justification. We understand that the government believes that this will reduce the activity of the shadow economy. It is, however, the context of the existing decisions of this office, which during the pandemic period, reduces the activity of many industries, especially catering, but also event or even sports, has some extraordinary predilection to lean on the functioning of the gambling industry with extraordinary care. That must be surprising. I think such provocative decisions are made unnecessarily. This not only awakens, as I said, our concern, but also surprise, because there is also one that speaks of shortening the period of keeping audio records from slot machines from 3 years to 1 year, while the Ministry of Justice in a number of other solutions proposes extending the retention period of such records and similar data. In this respect, we will demand, i.e.. We demanded this at first reading and further we maintain this, explaining during further work in committee or in parliament. We look forward to a fair and fair explanation of these doubts, without, of course - and I wanted to end with this, Mr Marshal, to emphasise - the positives of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u224	Thank you very much. Now Mr Krzysztof Bosak, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u225	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Much has been said about the draft changes to customs law. I will not reiterate that harmonising and simplifying procedures is the right direction. Simple and low taxes are one of the keywords of the Confederation, it is difficult to disagree here. However, there is a detail in this law, to which no one else has until then pointed out in the debate, namely that it introduces provisions enabling the identification of foreigners for tax purposes, the presence of non-nationals of the Polish population with a PESEL number. This is really the introduction into instalments of the actual state of affairs, the policy that the government is running, i.e. policy of open borders, de facto transforming Poland into a multinational, multicultural country, without proper social debate. So, on this occasion, I would like to appeal to the Marshal to take place, perhaps after five years of the PiS government, here, from the Parliamentary Speaker in this House, at least the first serious debate on immigration policy. Allow me to recall the facts. The Deputy Minister, who prepared the government's migration policy, was dismissed. This migration policy strategy has been hidden and has not yet been published, as have other government documents. Similarly, the strategy for people with disabilities was not published, and a few days ago it was announced. On behalf of people with disabilities, I also request the publication of this document. On our way back, we had an amendment to the foreign law. It seems that at that time Minister Brudziński was still the head of the Ministry of Home Affairs. Regulations to this legal act with the limits of foreigners have never been issued. I think it wasn't a coincidence that the subject was never taken up. If, at the moment, you introduce in instalments - and this is in all kinds of social benefits, and it is now in Customs Law - all other instruments allowing foreigners to operate in Poland as well as Polish citizens, this is your choice. On the other hand, I would simply appeal for an elementary debate in which we will be able to learn what is the long-term government policy on this issue and not to hide anything in the subsequent laws, as is happening at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u226	Mr Czesław Siekierski will still use the time left by the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u227	Mr. Marshal! With regard to Mr Paszyk's comments, often when we talk about customs problems, we do not fully realise the scale of the changes that took place after we entered the European Union. In fact, this scope of control, as far as trade is concerned, is very limited, because in the Union we have a single, free market, we have the flow of goods, services, capital, so as far as goods are concerned, there is no need to register, control, etc. But therefore we have a completely different situation, which also affects development, because free movement of goods, trade in a very important way affects economic development. Of course, there are other relationships because there are regional agreements. Although restrictions have been introduced on the EU-US agreement, we will probably come back to this, whether the EU-China or the Union-Japan, the Union-Canada agreements. So these are completely new relationships. And in this context, I would like to ask: How are the problems arising with the new area of trade, Ukraine and Russia? Because here we have a whole new dimension. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These are certain economic powers that are very important to us at the moment in trade.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u228	Thank you very much. Six Members have asked questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Mr Mirosław Suchoń was the first. You're welcome. There's no envoy. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u229	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I always stress this, I will repeat it once again: I think that today entrepreneurship should be a Polish reason for the state. Today, in a global economy where imports and exports are very high, we should absolutely make it easier for businesses to export goods and imports, because today, in the economy, this is necessary. A separate task or a separate subject of discussion are casinos. It is very difficult for me to understand, although I have nothing against casinos, that today in casinos you can play cards, you can drink alcohol, you can talk, while you can not eat normally at a restaurant. We have tabled three amendments to this law and we very much ask you to bend over to these amendments. This is because we assume that the laws that we are creating should have (the bell) an impact in the long time horizon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u230	Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u231	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The problem of National Tax Administration related to the employment of chaplains is neither new nor unknown. A group of Members of the Left submitted an interpellation on this matter. And what did we find out? That the average salary of the chaplain in KAS is higher than the average salary of Poles. That's the matter with the priests. And maybe everything would be okay if some real job was done for this cash benefit. I think that the amount of more than PLN 5 million spent on the remuneration of the chaplains under the rule of law and justice is a really large amount. It is time to complete the mission of the chaplains in the National Tax Administration. That's why I'm asking the Minister and appealing to your marshal. Let's give the print number to the bill made by the Left in this case. When will the Ministry start working on eliminating the possibility for the chaplains to get paid? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] What about Customs Law?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u232	Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u233	I would like to ask, firstly, how the proposed solutions will contribute to simplification, secondly, how the electronic system of transmission and collection of information will accelerate the process and how it will translate into employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u234	Thank you. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u235	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Just a few minutes ago, Prime Minister Morawiecki spoke from this speaker about a great success in recovering money from VAT mobs and tax frauds. And since we're talking about gambling in this case, I would like to draw attention to something very important. Namely, only in the first half of the previous year penalties for gambling were imposed in the amount of PLN 182 million, while in terms of budget contributions resulting from these penalties, this is an amount of 275 thousand. zł. This is just a radius of the amount of penalties that have been imposed. So the recovery of this money is virtually no place. Moreover, the costs of inspection and testing of these machines amount to almost PLN 1.5 million and the costs of storing them amount to almost PLN 6 million. It's very clear. [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the recovery of money in connection with the imposition of penalties goes hopelessly and practically doesn't go. Thank you. Then I ask, Minister, if there is a plan to improve the effectiveness of these activities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u236	Mr Andrzej Noblechta, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u237	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! One of the statutory amendments in the case of this draft law is the amendment of the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund. In the current legal state, the fuel levy is part of a harmonised excise duty, but as a result of the amendment, it will already be concluded that the fuel levy is an integral part of the harmonised excise duty. The obligation to pay the fuel levy shall arise from the date on which the tax obligation arises under excise duty on motor fuels and gas. I would like to ask the Minister whether this clarification in this part of the bill could affect the volume of excise revenue? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u238	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Ms Magdalena Rzeczkowska, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u239	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you very much for your questions. I would like to thank you, first of all, for supporting this bill and for the constructive work in the Parliamentary Committee. If I may, I would like to address in particular the issue raised here of the revision of the law on gambling. Two cases concern the abolition of a 5-year period for limiting the placement of gaming salons in a place where illegal activities were carried out and the shortening of the period of storage of the audio system. It was said here by Mr Carrot that we are loosening up the proposed regulations. We don't loosen up these regulations. In fact, we are adapting to reality and to the conclusions and experiences of observing the functioning of these rules over a number of years. The abolition of the 5-year period only concerns the possibility of placing such lounges for legitimate gaming entities. In fact, it is also an opportunity for persons with premises, i.e. tenants, to freely dispose of such premises. It is also an action aimed at protecting players and allowing them to use legitimate points of the game and limiting the operation of the grey zone and illegal points. In this case, the duty of 3 years to store audiovisual recording is an excess obligation, since in gaming venues the recording of the facts related to playing takes place primarily in systems that record the course of games on slots. And this is the main information and basis for assessing tax obligations. On the other hand, the audio-visual system is an additional control element. As regards opposition, as well as reservations on issues related to slot games, the deadline is 3 months and a period of 12 months is sufficient to allow this additional function of the audio system to be used. As far as slot games are concerned, I would like to remind you that slot machines can only be legally run by a monopoly company of the Treasury, and above all this is important when assessing the five-year condition or the deadline for storing data from the audio system. You have also raised the question of strengthening the KAS in the area of IT systems control equipment and expenditure in this direction. I would like to remind and inform you that a modernization resolution is currently being implemented, which concerns the National Tax Administration. For the period 2021 and 2022, we have the planned resources for the provision of control equipment, for the purchase of IT equipment, as well as the link. So that these purchases and increases in expenditure in recent years are taking place on computerization and equipment of the National Tax Administration. These are significant expenditures. There was also the issue of opening casinos in a day, during a pandemic. Well, I wanted to remind you that casinos, yes, are open during this recent period of slight economic loosening, but alcohol is not allowed in the sanitary regime. With regard to the issue of electronicisation, the use of information systems, these solutions aim primarily at speeding up the transmission of information by gambling operators. This is faster information acquisition and thus facilitating activities. On the other hand, no additional employment is provided for in this Act in connection with the performance of these tasks. Only nine additional posts related to the extension of the scope of the entry into the register of gambling domains are foreseen. Here, the implementation of these tasks is at the level of the authority to be designated, the body authorised by the Head of the KAS. In general, activities in the area of gambling, activities related to the retention of slots, the storage of these illegal slots and any control activities are primarily preventive. This is the protection of citizens, the health of citizens, the protection of young people. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These preventive tasks, regardless of the cost, must be carried out for the benefit of society. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u240	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the excise duty law and certain other laws (prints Nos 860 and 931). I would like to ask Mrs Eve Szymanska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u241	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the excise duty law and certain other laws in print No 860. At its 25th meeting of 21 January 2021, the Sejm shall be held in accordance with Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. The Public Finance Commission, after considering the above draft law at its meeting on 11 February 2021, asks the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u242	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Zdzisław Sipiera, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u243	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When the bill began, we talked about government proposals that dealt with facilitation, clarification and ordering of excise matters. This law affects several aspects which are important in the conduct of business activity by entrepreneurs, by businessmen in Poland. It is good that, during the process, such rules go precisely towards facilitating the undertakings that businessmen undertake as part of their business activities. There was also a change at first reading in Parliament concerning matters relating to the clarification of the rules relating to the keeping of records of all operators, the data collected on vehicles in accordance with the guidelines of the European Union. These are also issues related to the element that Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki spoke about today, with the fact that we are promoting those who are honest. So we're really narrowing down the environment that he wants to compete with by either not paying taxes or avoiding it or not registering something, or even establishing an activity at the border of the law. It's good, it's going in that direction to, say, eliminate economic errors. The fairer rules of division, when it comes to doing business, are also part of the changes that the Law and Justice Club sees going in this direction, the changes that the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister himself has repeatedly said about. It's important. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasise in this respect the financial resources... After all, no one likes to pay taxes, no one likes to pay taxes for high taxes, but, ladies and gentlemen, the state is a social contract and we have to have income from somewhere, otherwise there wouldn't be a state, unless we went back to other old ways of functioning, but it's rather impossible in the case of democracy. Therefore, it is so important that the fair distribution of accents is so important and that in Poland those who should pay various taxes simply pay them according to the existing law. This is why Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is in favour of this government proposal and will, of course, support it and will opt for the bill submitted after the work in the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u244	Thank you. Mr Michał Jaros, Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Mr Przemysław Koperski, the Left Club. Mr. Maciej Necessary was the first. You're welcome, Mr. Maciej Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As you have probably figured out by now, in the party together, we do not shudder especially at the thought of a functioning state, one that effectively collects taxes. Moreover, we believe that efficiency in this area, clear and enforced regulations, are a prerequisite for a modern, functioning state. We also have no objection to the effective and adequate punishment of those who want to cheat on taxes. As a general rule, therefore, the lot is positively referring to the draft sealing of excise duties. So we do not join populist voices that treat taxes as stealing and tax frauds as national heroes. However, I will admit that in the matter of the contested law in some respects enthusiasm and, above all, haste, the Government of the United Right seems excessive even for my socialist tastes. For the State to function well, the rules must be clear, stable and clear to both parties. Companies must have time to adapt to the planned changes. Official decisions on the consequences relevant to companies must not come as a surprise. In short: the rules must be clear to both sides. Therefore, we as Left make amendments to binding excise information. One makes it mandatory for the WIA to be amended for six months, the other abolishes the presumption of fraud laid down by the Act in the case of WIA. We will also apply for the subsequent entry into force of the entire law. The enthusiasm of the rulers was not limited to the issue of excise duty. By the way, they want to push a change in the mode of imposing fines for tax offences so that fines can be fined up to five times the minimum wage. We want to cross out this change. I even understand the intention of relieving the courts, which, anyway, were mostly imposed by the vending machine. However, there is no security to protect these smallest micro-entrepreneurs. In the end, it would be worth more to link penalties, and above all their upper limits, with the income of a particular person, in order to avoid similar dilemmas. Looking back to the topic of taxation of innovative tobacco products, and thus patching the hole in excise duty to which I devoted my previous speech, I would like to say that I am very impressed by the echo that it has affected. Even our intervention seems to have had very concrete results. In the second quarter of this year, it is to begin the work of the Government's Excise Taxation Forum. The first meeting is about tobacco products, e-cigarettes and innovative products. So there is hope for specific systemic regulation on the horizon. We're gonna keep our hands on the line. Together, supporting in principle the sealing of excise duties, encourages the Left's amendments, which disarm a few important mines that are in this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u246	Mr Przemysław Koperski, the Left Club, will use the rest of the time.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u247	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Government of Law and Justice for Perfection mastered the strangulation of Polish micro-entrepreneurs during the pandemic period. However, you are no longer satisfied with the mass checks of the owners of the catering premises by the government services, ranging from the health care centre to the National Tax Administration. For 2 months it is also standard to send dozens of police squadrons to owners of small restaurants, as it happened in Cieszyn or Pszczyna. To strangle you now want to add chest jumping, as if you have the satisfaction of having Polish entrepreneurs, citizens, all having a heart attack. That's what this bill is all about. We're trying to save him, of course, but I don't think you're going to support our amendments. More industries are coming down, bailiffs have been bouncing around their family companies for weeks now, people have been losing their jobs, their livelihoods, their prices are rising, and your shield is jammed like Swiss cheese, Minister. And at this very moment, the most difficult after 1989 for our economy, you are introducing further fiscal burdens. You're looking for money, again harassing micro-entrepreneurs and citizens. You've already introduced dozens of new taxes, and it's only the beginning of February. You do not even spare those Polish families who plan to spend their next vacation in Mazury, Beskidy, by the sea, Bulgaria or Croatia, using motorhomes. You're giving them almost 20% excise duty. You even want to suffocate those who like to drink beer from the Czech Republic or Germany sometimes. If getting five bottles of beer from our southern neighbours is supposed to involve extra taxes, we're already in some absolute mist of absurdity. The Left parliamentary club cannot agree to any additional taxation at the time when Poles are fighting a pandemic. We're trying to save your projects. If you support our proposals, there's a chance for normality, but I don't believe it because in our country there's no logic, it's the rule of law and justice. Thank you kindly. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u248	Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u249	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The legal arrangements related to excise duties tend to attract a great deal of interest from different backgrounds, which I particularly stress, because it is not just about consumers' taxpayers, but about different environments, often linked to these activities in such a unique, special way. For this reason, this requires greater scrutiny and supervision. Let us bear in mind that there is a significant supply of the state budget from this area of activity in terms of finance, expenditure, mainly social, social, health, etc., etc. The purpose of this Act is to eliminate, or at least a substantial restriction, irregularities in the collection of excise duty on excise goods and cars, other goods by introducing the necessary seals in the circulation of those goods. Our presence in the Union, as I have stressed today, is that participation in the single market requires the adaptation and implementation of European solutions to our national legal system. These changes concern the introduction of other solutions important for doing business in this area, which we must take into account for the uniformity of the market. This is particularly the case for the collection, flow of a number of formal and administrative and market information. I am thinking here of the entire procedures, the rules for the submission of appropriate tax returns or their application, which will make it much simpler, improve the system when it comes to collecting, communicating information by electronic means. As I have already mentioned, the introduction of changes to excise duties always raises discussion and a number of doubts. I'll refer to the tobacco sector here. As we recall, the EU directive has led to the cessation of the production of menthol cigarettes. Their place was largely occupied by e-cigarettes or so-called. heated tobacco, which has significantly increased the supply of these products. So now we have traditional cigarettes, e-cigarettes and heated tobacco, so-called. innovative tobacco products. The aim of this system is to maintain tax relations which will be the most favourable, first, for the health of consumers, for the health of citizens, so that in some way, if even these improper forms of consumption of drugs are preferred... The point is that they are the least harmful to health. It is primarily about the health of citizens. Secondly, it is also about securing the interests of domestic producers. It is not that if we reduce the production of tobacco in the country, we will reduce the consumption of cigarettes or tobacco in a different form. It's just gonna be imported. This will often be the import of tobacco products of inferior quality, from places where there are no such high standards as for plant protection products used, which are in Poland due to the requirements of the European Union. It is therefore important to maintain these relations at an appropriate level, in the interests of consumers and in the interests of producers. It is also important to ensure that as much money as possible is made available to the budget. We know that there is a black market - as far as this area is concerned, it is extremely large - which somehow limits revenue to the budget. This law is extremely important for the health of citizens and for the financial reasons, for consumers and for farmers. We need a reasonable balance between the various actions. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u250	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u251	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to draw attention to one area covered by this complex law, and I would like to remind you of the excise duty. It is about how it will hit the market of companies that build cars with engines above 2 l. In particular, this concerns the market for motorhome production and sales. It is a growing industry in Poland, moreover, this industry has been given a strong boost to development in connection with the pandemic. There are sales records in Europe right now. According to the 2020 data, 70 000 were registered in Germany. New cars. Of course, this is directly related to the closure of hotels and the fact that the motorhome gives you a great opportunity to travel freely. Karavanig also gives you the opportunity to communicate with nature. In Poland it is an industry in which many companies are maintained. They began to grow dynamically. A large part of the production in the motorhome sector - like for example: in the yacht sector - he's going to export. There's a problem here. Namely, it is about sealing excise duties in connection with actual scams, i.e. importing luxury cars as freight cars and registering them in Poland as passenger cars. This is actually a scam. On the other hand, is bringing a van or a van into Poland and then turning it into a motorhome any abuse? Not in my opinion. Duty fine of as much as 18.6% The value of a vehicle of people who undertake an economic activity consisting in building vans, turning them into cars that enable traveling and living in them to destroy, will kill this industry. It'll cause a very simple thing. The Ministry of Finance - here I look towards the listening officials and the Minister - will not see from this money or the gold. These cars will leave Poland on tow trucks and will be registered in other countries. You won't see any VAT money or excise money. This will also hit the car rental market because some of these cars are manufactured for hire. People who do this privately will be buying cars used from abroad, of course older cars, with worse environmental standards. It'll be an impulse to import used cars. Some people who do this privately because of their passion - I met such people, being at the last carnival fair in Poznań, where I talked to producers and enthusiasts - will build cars for the wild, because they will not be able to pay 18% tax. There's one more thing I'd like to say here. I think it's very important. It's about the rationality of this regulation. Why do we have an excise duty on cars with an engine of more than 2 litres? So that - if I understand the intentions of the Ministry of Finance - the engines were smaller and the emissions of the exhaust gas were lower, right? If so, let's see if the 2-liter engine is sufficient for the car in its normal range of up to 3.5 t. The answer is no. The whole car market in Europe works on engines with a capacity of 2 and 3 l. It's not a coincidence. This is simply due to the optimization of the economic account. On the one hand, it is about adapting the standards of automotive companies to EU environmental standards, on the other hand - those with a fleet of cars, and adapting them to their needs, i.e. These cars, in order to drive safely, must have some power, as well as commercial vehicles in the sector up to 3.5 t. My question - if someone answers from the Ministry after me - Minister, is: Why do you want to kill the market for manufacturing and selling vans or tourist cars up to 3.5 t with engines with a capacity of more than 2 l? Are you assuming someone's gonna drive a car with a 1.5-litre engine? That's not gonna happen. I really don't. Let's return, for example. Attention to similar cars on which engines are driven in the United States. I'm not saying it's a positive example, maybe there's an over-the-counter. However, the fact that we in Europe are killing our motorization at the moment and that Poland still adds a brick to it, is unfortunately a drama. In the last seconds of my speech, I will only draw attention to the fact that in Poland 1 000 cars were registered in Poland last year, in Germany, these are data from 2019 - 53 thousand, in France - 23 thousand, in the UK - 15 thousand. etc. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These are our export markets. Don't ruin this business.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u252	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Michał Jaros, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u253	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the opinion of the Civic Coalition on the draft law amending the excise duty law and certain other laws. Looking at the title of the project, hardly anyone would have imagined that behind the words and some other laws there was the Tax Code and another government-led raise. A fine of a value not exceeding double the minimum wage may now be imposed. However, the government plans to raise this amount to five times that amount. At this point I will remind you that from 1 January 2021 the minimum wage for work is PLN 2800, so the amount of the fine may amount to as much as PLN 14,000. zł. We talked about the absurdity of this change when we first read the bill. The subject was also discussed in the Committee on Public Finance. The arguments put forward by the government are even abstract. The Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, present today Minister Jan Sarnowski, claims that the changes regarding the criminal mandate are not intended to increase the amount of penalties, on the contrary, they are aimed at implementing the demands of entrepreneurs - I do not know what this is - what we had, of course, the opportunity to hear during the last meeting of the Sejm. I do not know how to increase the maximum amount of the fine by almost 10,000. zł is not an increase in the amount of the penalty. I'm still trying to understand, but unfortunately, Minister, I can't. On the other hand, after clarification by the Ministry at the committee meeting, it turned out that all those who oppose the lifting of this fine interpret the provisions of the draft in too simple a way. It is claimed that this is a guarantee for entrepreneurs that the case will be dealt with faster and more efficiently, which is a huge advantage, because it will relieve the courts at the same time. I do not understand why it is said that entrepreneurs will be relieved by being punished with a high mandate. I can't understand it. It's a minor oversight that makes it a tax offense. High fines are introduced. I will not even mention constantly raising taxes and constantly making money to citizens, including entrepreneurs, uphill. And in the end, they're telling everyone it's for their own good. It is a pity that the ruling party is so self-absorbed that it considers its good to be the good of all. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Just because the government makes mistakes by tripping over its own legs doesn't mean that the consequences are to be borne by all entrepreneurs. We're just, among other things. because of this change against this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, sir. And yet, your marshal makes two amendments. One concerns binding excise information, and the other concerns the withdrawal of rules which are burdensome for entrepreneurs and are not pro-entrepreneurs, but are pro-official towards officials of the Ministry of Public Finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u254	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u255	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! However, Minister, I would like to ask about binding excise information. The question is: Why do you complicate the lives of entrepreneurs? You're introducing further taxes, further administrative tightenings. Now you're introducing a period of validity for information. This is another same step. Another information will already be burdened with this inconvenience, that it will be in force for a certain period of time. In this connection, Minister, the question is: When do you give up the direction you have taken, i.e. introducing additional obstacles to entrepreneurs and facilitating the lives of officials, and go in the direction in which you should go, i.e. facilitating the lives of entrepreneurs, deregulation, tax reduction, so that Polish companies - especially now, during the pandemic - can operate in this difficult economic situation? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u256	Thank you, sir. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u257	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the Excise Tax Act, you introduce tax charges, tax increases, including five times, you amend the Tax Penal Code. The enthusiasm of the governing party in making life difficult for entrepreneurs is extraordinary, and all this on pretext, ladies and gentlemen, support and assistance for entrepreneurs. You even tax the motorhome market. We have a pandemic right now. Closed hotels, the motorhome market could start, so these people need to be made more difficult to live and taxed almost twenty times on this activity. Where's your trust in entrepreneurs, where's your help for entrepreneurs? Because in the midst of the biggest crisis, the introduction of new taxes, five times the increase in tax in the case of entrepreneurs, that's just a scandal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u258	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Aleksander Mishalski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u259	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Unfortunately, this procedated project introduces a tax that will cover all special vehicles, including camping vehicles. Meanwhile, Poland is the leader in the production of this type of car in Europe. These companies include: They're based on the fact that they're converting vans into camping vehicles. Meanwhile, you're trying to impose almost 19% excise duty on them. , for those vehicles with an engine exceeding 2 l. Therefore, of course Polish manufacturers will not be able to sell these vehicles, because they will be a few tens of thousands more expensive. The biggest problem is those people who have already invested in the purchase of such cars, but have not yet registered them for this special camping vehicle, which usually takes a few months. Therefore, they will have to pay this tax, even though they did not plan it at all. I would therefore like to ask you about your attitude towards this request to exclude from the bill the obligation to pay excise duty when changing the destination of a truck from a truck to a special, camping vehicle and may extend the vacathio legis until the end of 2021. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If you don't want to walk away from it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u260	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Mr Adam Szłapka, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u261	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is another law concerning the tax system in general. If you ever talk to entrepreneurs, one of the main problems is how many of these rules, how many of these regulations, how confusing it is. But this is one of the problems that is bothering Poles. The second problem is how many more solutions, more taxes, more danins, more fees, whatever you want to call them. Therefore, I have a question for government representatives. Please respond in writing. The idea is to calculate all new fees, taxes, taxes or whatever you call it, which have been introduced in Poland since October 2015. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u262	Thank you, sir. Mr Michał Jaros, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u263	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Rain tax, sugar tax, alcohol tax in small bottles, so-called "tax." Monkeys, power charges, double taxation of limited companies. The list of taxes you've introduced is much longer. Nearly 50 taxes, fees, danin - of course, in semantics you are masters - have been introduced or increased. I would therefore ask you to supplement Mr Snapshot's information with information on how many of these taxes have been increased. Minister! The question to you is: How many taxes, fees, danin are you planning to raise in 2021, how many are you thinking about in 2022, and how much do you want to raise taxes and introduce new ones in 2023? Please answer me. On the other hand, Minister, I ask that you do not introduce these solutions so that you will withdraw from these arrangements concerning the punishment of entrepreneurs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's our amendment. It's worth supporting. I'm asking for it on behalf of the businessmen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u264	Thank you very much. And Mr Tomasz Szymański, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u265	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I remember the announcement of the Minister of Finance who said that no tax would be raised in 2021. Thank you, Michael, for saying that in this Chamber, from this speaker, how many times in fact the Government of Law and Justice has raised taxes, charging Polish consumers and entrepreneurs. This is an outrage. And now you're at the throats of campers. Ladies and gentlemen, you have closed the hotels, you have only given Poles the opportunity to enjoy the benefits of nature, where the users of caravans and motorhomes can easily function in the normal, surrounding world. And now you want, even though you charge the car chassis tax, to charge the body, which is these camping buildings, with an additional tax exceeding 19%. Why are you doing this? Because you're ineffective in sealing the possibility of registering other vehicles. Let it go. Forget about those motorhome users, those manufacturers who are leaders in Europe. Let go of those motorhomes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Give the opportunity to earn Polish producers on the sale of these devices, these vehicles in Poland, and you do not sentence them only to export them to the West. Polish motorhome users want to drive Polish complex cars in Poland. They won't have to buy drugs and some wrecks abroad. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u266	Thank you very much. Please answer the questions of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Jan Sarnowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u267	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It was supposed to be banned. First of all, I would like to emphasise once again that we are not talking at any stage about introducing additional taxation in the revision of excise legislation that we are discussing today. All regulations are either sealing, designed to close certain gaps in the law or ordering. Semantics, Minister. Turning to the subject of binding excise information: defining the period of validity is a standard, and a European standard. Very similar solutions, resulting precisely from the change in the way products are manufactured, can also be seen in the case of binding tariff information. This restriction arises from the EU Customs Code. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Please? No, because the minister said not to talk in the cavities, which is why... Don't interrupt. In the Seym you can - order the Marshals of the Seym. You're welcome, Minister. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: Can you give me a little more time? But go ahead. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The restriction on binding tariff information is based on the Union Customs Code. Here the time has been set for 3 years. In the solution we propose, we go further. We give businesses 5 years, which is also due to the particularities of doing business and trading excise goods. A lot of questions have been raised about parking tickets. I would like to emphasise once again that we are not raising penalties here. We raise the maximum fine for tax offences, which can be imposed on the way so-called. the criminal mandate. What exactly is this? Currently, fiscal services detect a lot of cases where the perpetrator's tax offence is simply obvious, as in the case of the arrest of a person trying to smuggle excise products across the border, e.g. cigarettes. If there is no controversy about the circumstances of the case, then both the office and the prisoner are determined to close the case quickly. The National Tax Administration then issues a fine, and the perpetrator simply accepts it and pays it, and the proceedings are closed without having to go to court. The problem is a small number of things that can be handled in this way. If the perpetrator of the offence is punishable by a fine higher than PLN 5600, even if he wants to accept the fine and pay the fine, he simply does not have the option, he must go to court. As a result, as many as 14,000 people go to the courts every year. That sort of thing. There has to be an indictment. The case has to end in judgment. Often this is completely unnecessary. Here we are dealing even with cases where these issues are obvious, and the detained and the office want to close the case quickly. So, in no way are we making things worse for the perpetrators of the tax offenses. If they do not agree with the position of the authorities, they still have the possibility of not accepting a mandate and referring the case to a court of law. At the same time, we will give them this additional opportunity to quickly handle the matter as a single contact with the tax officer. I am no longer talking about this huge potential to reduce the number of cases dealt with in courts by up to 14 000. Even if, in the case of every other case, court proceedings were avoided, the number of cases that could be avoided would be thousands. The second thing that comes up: motorhomes. Ladies and gentlemen, the new solutions do not extend the catalogue of vehicles subject to tax to motorhomes. Camping cars are already subject to excise duty. How tall? Imports of such a car from another country into Poland are subject to excise duty, while in practice there have been cases of tax avoidance. How? By converting a truck imported without excise duty into Poland and registered in Poland as a motorhome, i.e. a passenger car. Then taxation does not occur and we are dealing with unfair competition between operators who import motorhomes to Poland and those who import trucks do not pay them on the spot after registration and excise duty. Yeah, you gotta put them all in one bag and charge... Hence the proposal for a solution that eliminates the grey zone in relation to tax avoidance and simply equals the opportunities and situation of those who import and remake cars, and those who check motorhomes and pay excise duty honestly. But these companies are against it, Minister. They say in one voice that they are opposed to such solutions. Don't interrupt. You're almost done. We will also answer the other questions in writing, as requested by Members. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] No, I don't like bullshit.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u268	Thank you. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Road Transport Act (Prints Nos 908 and 948). I ask Mr Mariusz Trepka to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u269	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the report of the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government's draft law amending the Road Transport Act, print No. 908. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, the Marshal of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Infrastructure on 25 January 2021 to carry out a first reading. The Committee on Infrastructure, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting yesterday, asks the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. I would like to point out that the bill was adopted by the committee, one can say unanimously. The draft law introduces an obligation to collect information on the VIN number of the controlled vehicle in the central register and to transfer by the Chief Inspector of Road Transport to other European Union contact points competent for the country of registration of the vehicle, information on the results of the inspection during which serious or dangerous deficiencies have been identified, using the communication exchange system, the RSI system. The project aims to implement European Union law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u270	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. First, Mr Jerzy Paul, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u271	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club regarding the amendment of the Road Transport Act, No. 908 and No. 948. The proposed amendments follow the implementation regulations introduced by Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 2017/2005 of 29 November 2017 on detailed rules for the procedures for the technical roadside inspection of commercial vehicles showing serious or dangerous deficiencies. According to the Government's proposal, the Chief Inspector of Road Transport will be responsible for collecting data from road inspections and technical inspections of vehicles from different categories: M2, M3, N2, N3, O3, O4 and T5. These are vehicles for passenger transport, cargo transport, trailers and wheeled tractors. The amendment of the Act will oblige, among others. voivodship police chiefs, Border Guard chiefs or tax administration chambers to provide the Chief Inspector of Road Transport with information about deficiencies detected during the inspection of the above mentioned deficiencies. the categories of vehicles. The bill indicates that, among other things, the VIN number of the controlled vehicle remained in the database and was available in the event of further checks or subsequent infringements. Following the introduction of this law, the Chief Road Transport Inspector will be required to create RSI messages. In addition, the Chief Inspector of Road Transport will be responsible for transmitting information to the European Union countries after detection of defects or failure during the inspection carried out in Poland, when the vehicle will be registered outside the Republic of Poland. The draft law aims to ensure that all the required data during the audit can be collected and processed in order to communicate jointly in the countries of the European Union. The Law and Justice Club, seeing the efforts made by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and Minister of Infrastructure Andrzej Adamczyk to improve road safety, supports the proposed draft amendment of the bill, which also aims to increase safety on Polish roads. Therefore, the Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of the proposed amendments to the Act. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u272	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Andrzej Szewiński, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u273	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition is pleased to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the government's draft law amending the Road Transport Act, print Nos 908 and 948. The implementation of this project is aimed at adapting national provisions to the implementing regulation of the Commission of the European Union 2017/2205 on rules concerning the procedures for the notification of commercial vehicles showing serious or dangerous deficiencies identified during the roadside technical inspection. The revised regulations introduce an obligation for the Chief Inspector of Road Transport to ensure the transmission of messages in the RSI system to other contact points of the European Union and the Member States of the European Free Trade Agreement (EFTA) competent for the registration of a vehicle. At this point, the question arises: Will ITD's IT system meet the requirements of the legal act within the statutory deadline? It should be stressed that the introduction of a draft law will clarify the existing rules on the central register of infringements, inter alia. by introducing compulsory collection in connection with checks carried out in addition to brand, type, registration number and country of registration also the VIN number of the controlled vehicle. The unification of these regulations in the European Union will increase road safety and reduce emissions from vehicles. The financial impact of this Act on the Main Road Transport Inspectorate is the sum of 700,000. In 2021, the draft law complies with European Union law. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I recommend the adoption of the bill submitted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u274	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Maciej Kopiec, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u275	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Print nr 908 is a draft law on amending the Road Transport Act and is an adaptation of Polish law to European Union legislation. It concerns the procedures for reporting commercial vehicles showing serious or dangerous deficiencies identified during the roadside technical inspection. The aim is to clarify and clarify the provisions already in force relating to the keeping by the Chief Inspector of Road Transport of the central register of infringements. The main objective is to ensure the proper functioning and flow of data between the countries of the European Union and the Member States of the European Free Trade Agreement in accordance with the requirements of the European Commission Regulation of 2017. Central records of infringements are already in place in Poland, and the solution will expand the vehicle VIN number and vehicle category collected in Poland and will further aim at the efficient exchange of messages between contact points located in the European Union and EFTA countries. In practice, this means allowing the transmission of information about the technical inspection carried out and the finding that the vehicle shows serious or dangerous defects to the country where the vehicle was registered in the form of an RSI message. This is another step towards harmonising the rules on technical roadside checks checking the suitability for use of commercial vehicles in the European Union. The optimal solution is for new services to operate in conjunction with the ICT system operated by the Chief Road Transport Inspector. The adjustment would initially cost 600,000. PLN, but after analysis the secured amount was increased by 100,000. zł. I hope that, for almost four years since the directive was published, the spending of these funds has been well thought out and that the system will be fully professionally prepared and put into service as fully functional and operational. The system must also comply with the requirements for RSI messages and notification confirmation messages set out in the Union Regulation. The new solutions will allow for better cooperation of road transport inspections with the competent authorities of other EU countries. A big advantage of the proposed legislation and the introduction of a harmonised RSI system is the prevention of unfair competition in road transport, which results from differences in control levels applied by individual Member States. There are two facts to doubt. The first is to delay the implementation, implementation of good European Union law, here particularly important, because the project improves road safety. Nearly four years have taken you to implement these laws, while propaganda laws and judgments that confirm your tough electorate and, by the way, destroy people's lives, you print while you wait in a few hours. The second question is that the project contains small funding for the Road Transport Inspections, where additional opinions fall. It is worth reminding the public that the budget is one and there is only one money in it, and how it is managed depends solely on the Law and Justice. I stress: 4 years of proceding on the project, which this time did not finance ITD employees, on the other hand, for example. last December, in one day, the budget of PLN 60 million is transferred to the Tadeusz Rydzyk Museum. It could have been money for salaries for security officers on Polish roads. The Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left will vote in favour of the introduction as soon as possible of the provisions proposed by the European Commission in view of this improvement in safety on Polish roads, the harmonisation of standards in European Union law and the positive impact on competitiveness in road transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u276	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u277	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL, UED, Conservatives regarding the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the law on road transport, prints no. 908 and 948. The draft law amending the Road Transport Act serves to apply the provisions of Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/2205 of the European Commission of 29 November 2017 on detailed rules concerning the procedures for reporting commercial vehicles showing serious or dangerous deficiencies identified during the technical roadside inspection. It's a good thing we're still talking about it today, discussing it. We should take it as soon as possible. It's a good thing that after almost four years we talk about wine, and it's not just about Tusk's wine, because we've heard about it here most often, these are needs, problems that need to be solved as soon as possible. Of course, these rules adapt Polish law to EU law, to specific rules, and this system needs to be implemented as soon as possible. This cost in the scale of the country's budget is not significant, so all the more so it needs to be harmonised, done and thus improved security. But this safety will not be improved unless, on the one hand, the regulations on the work of drivers who move cars and, on the other hand, the preparation of our roads for safety are followed. Because once again from this place, I'm going to appeal and say that it's crazy and very dangerous, that in the times of the ILO pandemic they're still closed, the drivers have nowhere to rest properly. We have winter, and in many places in the country, when you drive, unfortunately, you can see that the exit points for the ILO are still closed, marked with red cones, that it is still closed, and the government does nothing about it. The fact that we're gonna have a car base and a glitch that's been discovered... It's been corrected for years, eliminated, because that's what all the checks at the vehicle control station are for, where it's harder and harder to hide. or to rule out such a glitch. Of course, it is also important that standards are met, not only in Poland, but equally throughout the European Union, because we are, however, a great competition for other Member States of the European Union and this must be mentioned, because this is also our strength. But if this is the only way forward, we will really be improving the safety of our roads for a long time, because the regulations we adopt here are becoming more and more burdensome and the drivers, and the entrepreneurs who operate within a given industry, economy or transport. However, there is nothing to improve the working comfort of both drivers and people who work directly on it. We have redesigned these changes, there are not many of them, and from this point of view I can assure, as in many cases, when this support and cooperation is needed, Members of the Polish Coalition will be in favour of adopting these provisions, especially since they, as I said earlier, adapt Polish legislation to EU rules. But there must be a debate on many issues, not just a quick process on the next change. After four years, the government suddenly wakes up and it needs to be accepted because almost four years of sleep have been spent. Time to act in many of these areas concerning and transport, and improve safety on our roads. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u278	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u279	No one needs to go through the bill again. One of the side effects of participation in the European Union is the doubling of legislative diarrhea characteristic for many countries, including those with rich traditions and with us. This is not usually mentioned in the exchange of different benefits and misfortunes on the part of the European Union, and it is always worth remembering. The Road Transport Act entered into force in 2001. It has been changed 90 times since then, which is more than once a quarter. And this is only one of the thousands of laws in force in Poland which citizens need to know more or less. And seriously, think about what it's like for a citizen to operate in this thicket of constantly changing regulations. Why don't we make this change once a term, just make it once a quarter? You're always digging into something. Not a day goes by that some new bill doesn't come into force. If not the government, then the Union; if not the Union, then the government. Regulation itself is of course something we do not need, another bureaucratic system, which now wants to collect more data, promising very enigmatic benefits. The reason for this is that it will increase security and provide us with a better, fairer world, better competition. But we hear it as always with every bill. Where's the evidence? The justification slips through the general framework itself after the effects of implementing this regulation in other countries, and we would like to read how security has already increased there, where this regulation has already been implemented. I would like to see the numbers, as it is finally the posts of officials, new desks, new computers, new servers have brought tangible benefits, have effectively solved the problem that has been placed in the regulation, and have not gone just to overeat. 'Cause usually these checks don't show anything. Everyone controls everything, no one is responsible for anything, checks are simply taken to the trouble of citizens, and the benefits of it are only on paper. Just as in these papers, which are collected at the border, in some countries all the time, in some countries only during a larger epidemic. Now we also collect such papers that the traveler fills out where he comes to, who he goes to. Nobody checks it out later, you can put anything in there, there's no benefit in it. This is just collecting unnecessary waste paper. And that's what most of these ideas look like. Today, several such projects have already been discussed in this Chamber, and this is another one when we collect data to collect. In most cases, it doesn't really work out at all. So that I would like to know the benefits that have already occurred in other countries, unless we are the first to implement it, and when we are the first, I do not know why we are so leaning forward, because from this justification it is not clear whether it has already been implemented or not. So I'd love to hear what it looked like. We will be happy to vote when we delete some regulations, remove some regulations, reduce bureaucracy, and if you want to add them to the regulatory furnace, without us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u280	Thank you, sir. Let's get to the questions. Who among you and your fellow Members would like to present themselves to the question? I'm closing the list. As the first Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u281	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I have a very brief question. It concerns the obligations imposed on the police, which boils down to the need to fill out the form by means of a website and thus report infringements. My question: Was it consulted with the police? What is the number of such applications possible? Will this in any way affect the disorganization of the work of these services? I think that's such an important question from the point of view of police operation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u282	Thank you, sir. Mr Andrzej Szewiński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u283	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Question: "Is the funds secured in the budget in 2021 for the Road Transport Inspection for the implementation of the draft law sufficient and during the inter-ministerial arrangements and consultations, the Chief Road Transport Inspector informed the competent ministry of the lack of resources for the implementation of the law resulting from the EU regulation?" Another question. In the light of Art. 5 Regulations of the Commission of the European Union Member States are obliged to introduce regulations which have been included in the draft law since 30 June 2020. What conditions have led to the long-term implementation of this regulation and whether there is a risk that the provisions of the Implementing Regulation have not been applied since 30 June 2020. [[♪ The bell ♪]] could lead to infringement proceedings by the European Commission? I'd like a written reply. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u284	Thank you very much. And the last question is asked by Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u285	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Road Transport Act, adaptation of national legislation to European legislation. A law that aims to improve road safety and create vehicle data. The legislative process has taken over the governing party for four years. My question is: Is the system etc. is prepared in Poland to accept such amount of data about vehicles, controls and faults? Are the data in the system properly secured? Another question: Why has a system been introduced for so long to improve safety on Polish roads, and whose fault is it? Because you're not gonna say it's Tusk's fault. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u286	Thank you very much. Please answer the questions of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Minister Rafał Weber.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u287	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There is general agreement on the very provisions of this law and the need to introduce them, of course, with the exception of the Confederation - and in a moment I will go over it, I will refer to it. As far as the substance is concerned, the financial resources that are secured in this project for the Chief Road Transport Inspector are, in our opinion, 700,000. they are sufficient resources. The road transport inspector has so far carried out market discernment and estimated more or less the costs of the service to be carried out, i.e. the creation of a ICT service in connection with the ICT system operated by the main road transport inspector. These funds are secured in the budget, after the adoption of this law, GITD will have them. I'm pretty sure they're enough to get this system running and tightening. On the other hand, if in the tendering procedure it appears that this amount will not be sufficient, then these funds will necessarily be increased, this pool will be increased. For four years, I don't know where you came from. The regulation itself was adopted on 29 November 2017, a little over 3 years ago, and the whole machine that gave us the power to implement these provisions started even later, first of all. Secondly, this system, as a general rule, already exists and the vast majority of the data in this system is being introduced. Through this law we introduce only one new information, i.e. VIN number of the controlled vehicle. The rest of the glitches are already entered and is already in the Central Record of Violations. And what is this base for, ladies and gentlemen? It is precisely so that we have knowledge of the quality of trucks, vehicles above 3.5 tons. These vehicles are driving more and more on Polish roads. We are a transit country, Poland is located on the east-west axis, more and more carriers from the East, from Ukraine, Belarus, but also from Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia, travels through Poland to the countries of Western Europe to carry out transports there. By force, we must do everything to ensure that these journeys are not dangerous, that these journeys are carried out in compliance with Polish road users. I do not know if you are closely following the events of various types of heavy transport, but 1.5 weeks ago there was an attempt by Poland to transport powerful trucks from Germany, which did not have a permit, it was a non-normative journey, and had to be stopped because they threatened road safety. So that the tighter the system, the better it is for all those who use particularly high-speed roads in our country, because, as a rule, this transit traffic is driven by high-speed roads on the east-west or west-east-east of the A2 motorway or the A4 motorway. So this is another element that strengthens the system, strengthens road safety. As far as inspectors and their work are concerned, it is indeed a great deal of work, very difficult, especially in the previous year, in the year of the COVID-19 epidemic. I would like to thank from this place very warmly all road transport inspectors who are present on Polish roads every day. Really, hats off when it comes to this job. As far as the financial aspect is concerned, in 2019 inspectors received increases - 500 PLN for each inspector. In 2020, according to the Budget Act, by 6% increased so that the remuneration of road transport inspectors is systematically increased. One of your fellow Members spoke about the fact that the ILOs, the places where vehicles are operated, are closed. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm denouncing this. There is no such situation, all vehicle handling sites managed by the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways are open, are made available to both truck drivers and drivers of passenger vehicles. The toilets are open. Of course, as in any place, if there is a soup kitchen (the bell) or a restaurant, there are sharpenings in connection with restrictions, while the ILOs as such are made available, open and can, in fact, be used. Let me remind you that drivers of heavy vehicles have legally regulated working time and must not exceed it. With regard to the police issue, of course, the government project was consulted with the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, and he did not make any comments to this project, so that I do not think that the police would be unduly burdened with these tasks. Thank you very much to all those who have worked on this project within the Committee on Infrastructure. I am convinced that this will be one of the small but nevertheless important elements that will have a positive impact on road safety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u288	Thank you very much. Would the rapporteur like to speak? No. Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the National Census of Population and Housing in 2021 (prints Nos 913 and 968). I ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u289	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased to present a report by the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on National Population and Housing census in 2021, print No. 913. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 9 February 2021, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the above draft to the Committee on Public Finances for first reading. The Public Finance Commission, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 24 February 2021, asks the High Sejm to adopt a draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u290	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Costowniak, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u291	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the Government's draft law amending the Act on the National Census of Population and Housing in 2021, print No. 913. Ladies and gentlemen! I will no longer specifically extend, because it is primarily a very technical amendment, referring to the census. The most important issue in this amendment is a double extension of the deadline for carrying out the inventory. We all know what we're in, we're experiencing a pandemic period, so this is the biggest change. The second major change is that the remuneration of censuses has been evened out. This applies to people who keep a directory in the form of a telephone interview, but also to a direct conversation. The Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u292	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Marta Golbik, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u293	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The proposed law aims to allow the national census of the general population and housing in 2021 under conditions of epidemic risk caused by the COVID-19 virus. This law actually has some technical elements, but extremely important ones, primarily concerning the issue of remuneration for auditors. The new rate is to be 6 PLN gross for each interview carried out regardless of how it is carried out. We think this is a very good solution. The project also clarifies the rules for the award of prizes and allowances for employees of municipal census offices, stressing that they are optional, which is also an important change in the experience of the general agricultural census. It is also a fact that, according to the draft, prizes and allowances for census work can be awarded taking into account certain conditions and not, as is currently the case, quite discretionaryly. These are indeed experiences from the general agricultural census, which were problematic. With regard to the very idea of carrying out a national census during the COVID-19 pandemic, the Act provides for both self-written and other forms of census of residents. Here, on the other hand, comments were made by organizations of deaf and deaf people. If anyone has a problem with making a self-sacrifice, they have to call the hotline, it's the only way to contact them listed in the bill. Therefore, deaf people will not be able to cope with such a survey. We're counting on the proper records in the bill. It is also worth mentioning examples of the national census in other countries, since six Member States, namely Greece, Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, Portugal and Romania, considered it necessary to move the census to a time-limit after the pandemic. Bulgaria and Cyprus also try to do this. Italy shall carry out a national census based solely on administrative sources. Latvia, Estonia, Greece, Malta have taken steps to obtain access to the identification and address data to enable statistical surveys to be carried out. This shows that the countries of the European Union, which are also obliged to carry out a national census, decide on other arrangements for carrying out this census in a pandemic era or decide to postpone the national census to a time after the pandemic. From this point of view, as the Civic Coalition Club, we believe that the national census is not necessary, essential or insanely important to carry it out during the pandemic. Despite the solutions adopted in the Act, it is worth considering certain minorities, some people with dysfunctions that will not be able to write down. It is also worth taking into account that the national census for certain groups, national minorities and ethnic minorities is a holiday. This is a holiday connected with the fact that, before or during the course of such a census, they hold conversations in their territories, discuss how to register. This isn't going to happen because there's a pandemic. Television, radio information will not be what national and ethnic minorities would like. Therefore, as the Civic Coalition Club, we believe that the national census should be postponed until after the pandemic. We are making appropriate amendments to ensure that the national census takes place within 90 days of the day following the date of cancellation of the outbreak declared due to COVID-19. We are counting on our amendments to be considered in the course of further work on the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u294	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Tomasz Trela, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u295	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, it seems that the project is quite standard and technical if we do not take into account that we are in a pandemic period, in fact during the third wave, and unfortunately there is no indication that we will deal with this pandemic quickly. I was very interested in the following statement in the explanatory memorandum - I do not know when this project was drawn up - which I would like to read: The expected result of the amendment will be to provide the possibility of collecting data from individuals included in the census during the summer months 2021, when a significant decrease in the incidence of COVID can be expected, in particular as a result of universal vaccination for citizens against COVID. These vaccinations, in accordance with the national vaccination programme adopted by the Council of Ministers, began in December 2020 and are to cover, on a voluntary basis, all citizens of the Republic of Poland. I do not know, Mr President, who and when was preparing this project, but as I observe the rate of vaccination, I think that in July you will not include anyone with these vaccinations to such a degree - in the context of satisfaction - to inoculate society and census records enough to make them feel safe. Let me remind you that vaccinations last for 2 months, and the first dose we did not inoculate up to 2 million citizens. It seems that, under normal circumstances, this project could be supported and adopted, and this is the course that the Left takes in this regard. There is no doubt that this three-month extension or harmonisation of the rates for these works is reasonable, but the proposal presented by the Civic Coalition to consider the option of moving the inventory: 90 days after the end of the pandemic - given that other European Union countries are taking such measures and that we are all obliged to these lists by international regulations or commitments - seems more sensible and logical. So you will allow us to work on this in the finance committee, because if there is a majority on this issue, it seems that from a security point of view, especially for all those who will work, but also for all those who will be subject to this inventory, because there is no doubt that not everyone will be able to provide information by phone or to fill out a survey via the Internet, it would be more sensible and more reasonable. So we are still going to have a discussion in the finance committee about this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u296	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland. The Member will take the floor remotely. You're welcome. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u297	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland, I would like to present our position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the law on the national census of population and housing in 2021. As the previous speakers said, the project is technical in nature, little can be added here, and it has already been largely characterised in the discussion. Our fundamental reservations as Members of the parliamentary club concern, above all, this slight extension of the duration of this census and the change of the original deadline: by 30 June to 30 September. We're probably not going to be particularly original here. In our view, this is too short a shift in time, so that we can say with a clear conscience that the implementation of this inventory will not entail any danger or epidemic threat for both those carrying out this inventory and for those affected by it. That is why we are encouraging the majority of the Parliament today to reflect on the question of whether this census cannot be completed after the pandemic has stopped, so that it does not bear any additional risks. Because since today, High Izbo, it is forbidden to act in many economic areas, since many entrepreneurs cannot operate, it really seems illogical to carry out a census in this situation. That's why this appeal is on our side. Nothing drives us to do this list by September 30th. We really do not take any additional risks to this already complicated epidemic situation that - no need to be charmed - will not stop until September certainly. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Coalition of Poland once again consider the possibility of moving the implementation of this census to a time after the pandemic has ceased. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u298	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u299	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I will continue with Mr Krzysztof Paszyk's statement, but in a slightly different way, because probably the young generation is unaware of what the GUS has always provided us, a great resource of information. Because there used to be no Internet, that's the ability to collect data. It was all produced, collected, processed in the CSO. This served science, various analyses, comparisons, assessment of the state of the economy, etc., etc. As I recall, I still remember when Mr Sadowski was president. And here I would like to express my great gratitude for these actions and their certain continuity, which allows to make comparisons of the following years, comparisons which are very valuable. Also these experiences of my being in the European Parliament, the fact that you have joined this whole system of joint data collection, which is needed to make some comparisons and to create a uniform reporting system in the European Union - this is extremely important. I think this requires emphasis and at the same time expressing some recognition. Of course, I agree with those thoughts that Mr Paszyk and others have spoken about, but I would, of course, leave this to the experts to decide. It's about epidemiologists, and it's about specialists who will tell us how it's going to be in other countries because we need to fit in here. In order for certain data to be comparable, they must also be collected during the same period. So I'm thinking, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm sure you'll settle this properly as professionals. Once again, I think this bill is extremely tidy, technical, but necessary. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u300	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Krzysztof Tuduj, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u301	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Every 10 years a national census of population and housing takes place in Poland. Although writing is now imposed by the European Union, the census as such is not new, it has a centuries-old tradition. The first mention of the population of Polish lands appeared already in the Middle Ages. The lists were also made in modern times, in the Second Polish Republic, also immediately after regaining independence. In the times of the right past Polish People's Republic, of course. Thanks to the censuses it is possible to carry out evaluations, to carry out conclusions on the demographic and social structure of Poles. This is an important database for the rulers used in political decision-making and for researchers the subject of research into the current social reality. The next national census of population and housing falls in the current 2021 year. The proposed regulation takes into account the difficulties in carrying out the inventory as a result of the functioning of the state and society at present. They are confronted by an extension of the census period by a quarter. In addition, it sets out the possibility of self-writing through the Internet, telephone interviewing by the accountant, imposing an obligation on census commissioners to make available the premises with access to the computer in which the inventory can be made available. The submission as such does not raise any particular controversy, although the amount of almost 400 million on this project seems to be considerable. There is certainly an exaggeration in the position of 18 million undetermined costs, because this is what we find in the explanatory memorandum, and especially 50 million costs in popularization of the census. It's what public television, Polish Radio should do. It's the state that wants to pay public television. They already have enough money in there. But keeping a census is also an opportunity to reflect on how the Polish state is managed during the struggle with the koravirus. If you want to count, maybe you can count how many people have already passed the disease, have antibodies. It's definitely millions, maybe tens of millions. Let us protect, isolate people with less immunity, older ones, those who are more concerned about how their body will react to this virus, but let the others work and live. The courts are already ruling on the unlawful detention of the economy without declaring a state of emergency, and the avalanche of these actions is just beginning. You're not in the law. But worse, you mock Poles. First, the masks don't work, then the masks stop the virus. On the argument that the virus is smaller, the answer: masks reduce coverage, remind everyone of the danger. Let's get to the point, sir. And now - to Grunwald! - it turns out that the cavities unfortunately are no longer fashionable, although the Ministry of Health itself recommended them and encouraged them to wear them. The problem is, where's the credibility here? Why should Poles believe what you say today if you deny yourself? It shouldn't be like this. Did the colleagues invest too much in surgical masks that, at this stage, covering their mouths and noses is no longer crucial, and the type of masks become crucial? Do you know why Poles wear these masks? For the sake of peace. Just for the sake of peace, so you don't get tickets. Ladies and gentlemen! I hope the government doesn't stop kissing anytime soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u302	Thank you. What does that have to do with anything, sir? What does this have to do with this matter? Have you been listening since the beginning? Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Joanna Mucha, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u303	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! My Preface! Poles and Poles wear masks so as not to infect themselves and not to infect others. Minister! We have a problem with this bill. We're having second thoughts. She is, of course, not something we would like to accept with great hurrahoptimism, but on the other hand we understand what is the need of the moment. We know, of course, that it is difficult, demanding and requiring the use of new tools to carry out a census during a pandemic. We are well aware of that. We also know that making any decision: to postpone this or to continue... Both of these possibilities have their drawbacks, because the transfer of the census to the following year, as proposed, is a lack of continuity of data. I am an economist, so I know that such a lack of continuity later results in very large limitations in public statistics. On the other hand, carrying out a census today means also some probability of falsifying the results, and the danger of insubordination may be some of the people, and this is the greatest danger, the possibility of being infected with someone, because we can't rule that out either. But if we recognize that the continuity of public statistics is important and important, we as Members of the Polish 2050 Group will tend to support this law. Of course, we depend on how we are going to proceed with the amendments that will be made at the committee meeting. On the other hand, I would like to repeat the questions I asked you during the committee meeting, which is, first of all, I would like to ask: will you assure us that all people with disabilities will be able to take advantage of the opportunity to self-subscribe? Will all deaf people be provided with a translation? That's 500,000. persons. If we add the deaf to this, that's it. really a very large group of Poles. Older people who don't have a phone don't have the Internet - are we prepared to make a list of such people? As I said, in principle, we believe that the value of continuity of public statistics at this point is probably more important than others. Therefore, probably, if nothing bad happens to this law during the process, we will support it, but we really are calling for care for all these people and all these groups that I have spoken about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u304	Thank you very much, Member. Let's get to the questions. Who among you and your fellow Members would like to present themselves to the question? I'm closing the list. As the first Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, the Civic Coalition. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u305	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a very practical question, namely the candidate for census ranking, which should be met, among others. the following conditions: be 18 years of age, enjoy good repute, have at least secondary education, use Polish language in speech and writing, not be convicted by a final judgment. Foreigners living in Poland will also have to sign up. For them documents will be prepared in their languages: Ukrainian, English, German. What if the comptroller calls or visits a foreigner and he does not know his own language, he cannot speak the language of that foreigner, but he speaks the Polish language well as required? How will he write this person down if this foreigner? [[♪ The bell ♪]] does not fill in the form e.g. For health reasons? Is it not worth considering, however, that the pandemic period for practical and organisational reasons is not a good time to carry out a census? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u306	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u307	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a quick question. It's about the accountants. Well, the time limit for recruitment has been extended. Recently, it ended a few days ago. Question: "Will the number of raiders be sufficient to carry out the inventory as a result of this extended recruitment, or will it be necessary to renew this recruitment?" Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u308	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Michał Grammar, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u309	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! According to the Act, by 26 February this year telecommunication service operators must provide GUS with classified and non-public data registers covering the telephone numbers of Poles and Poles, but not only numbers, because these numbers are associated with the addresses of residence together with the TERYT code and are associated with the PESEL number. A similar procedure took place at the general agricultural census. At that time, the CSO, when asked about the validity of this procedure, replied that these data were necessary to establish a telephone contact by the census accountants. The CUS did not tell the question whether and when this data would destroy. At the same time as the article. 32 of the Act shows that the State has the right to process this data not for 2 years, as in the case of the last census, but for 100 years since it was acquired. I have questions. Why do you need this data? What do you want to use them for? How do you want to process this data? Who else, besides the CSO, will have access to this data? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u310	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u311	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The ruling party planned to carry out a national census during the third wave of epidemics - from 1 April to 30 September. Congratulations on your fantasy, really. There are things that are important and very important. If you want to write down just to write down and pay the accountant 6 zlotys for each one that's written, congratulations on the idea. If you want to have real data and not exclude people with disabilities, deaf people, people who don't have access to a phone that can't fill out a questionnaire in electronic form, you should reschedule the inventory for time after the pandemic. This is the proposal submitted by the Civic Coalition and we will vote for it. You have to think about what might happen in the long run. To spend money just to write... If you want to write it down, write it down first for the people who have been vaccinated. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u312	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u313	Chief of the Kaczynski Security Committee! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Taking advantage of the opportunity that we are talking about the census, I would like to encourage the High House, but above all Poles and Poles to declare also the European identity in addition to the Polish identity and to include it in the form in the field: others. I'm Polish. Sometimes it makes me proud, for example. when I think of our world's greatest language, literature and unique Polish sense of humor, which unfortunately reaches its highest form when it threatens us - like today - dictatorship. But when I think about the oppression of national minorities by our nation, the slavery of serfs, extreme nationalism or blind faith in foreign religion, I take Polishness as a burden. A European identity can help us to overcome our dark national features. It brings with it respect for law, independence of courts, equality of all citizens, respect for sexual minorities, respect for women's rights, freedom [[♪ The bell ♪]] statements, respect for multiculturalism, tolerance for other views, the fight for clean air and nature conservation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u314	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Andrzej Szewiński, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u315	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is from the government side, as well as from us, the parliamentarians who are the law, that it is up to us to reduce the next wave of pandemics. The introduction of amendments, which will indicate that this bill will be the mandatory law of the general public... It'll be mandatory later. My question is: Why is there no good will when it comes to moving this term? Another question: Why are we breaking down an open door? Isn't it worth it, as Marta Golbik said, to take advantage of the experience of other countries where it has been shifted? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u316	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Joanna Mucha, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u317	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I was expecting this question, so it's certainly not a surprise. I wanted to ask - you must know that, since you are creating estimates of the cost of the entire operation - how many people in Poland who do not have a phone do not have access to the Internet. What's the procedure for getting to these people? What's the procedure for contacting these people? What will be the procedure for contact with deaf people? I think it's very important and a lot of people want to find out. I am very sorry, but I must warn you that I will not be able to listen to the Minister's reply personally. I have to run to the next committee meeting. I will listen with great interest, so that I ask for an answer. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u318	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u319	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, The agricultural census was completed last year. I wanted to ask - I would also ask for a written reply - what were the costs of carrying out this census. At some point, you decided to deprive census commissioners and voivodship census commissioners of the municipal awards. The district commissioner is usually the mayor, the mayor, the president of the city. The public authority has agreed with the local government to carry out certain activities. All these activities have been carried out, while the justification for stripping municipal Commissioners' prizes states that the budgetary situation is difficult and that the prizes must be paid back. At the same time, other government officials received prizes of considerable magnitude. I would therefore like to ask, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will this fact - the abuse of trust in one another - not be detrimental now that the national census is kept? After all, the municipal census commissioner will also perform many functions, e.g. related to the sharing of rooms and all logistics. Therefore, the question is: Will it be normal this time? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u320	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u321	Very briefly. I have one question: Will the data from the agricultural census now be used in the census, or must it be complete, so to speak, repeating this, reaching the same households? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u322	Thank you, sir. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u323	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! During the agricultural census, it turned out that there was a method of extortion of money, of entering the house - a method for accounting. There it was easier to eliminate, because they are mostly multigenerational families, there are more people at home. But before us is the census, which in many cases will apply to the elderly, to the lonely, to those who do not necessarily have full information. I have this question: Have you done everything, or do you still have plans to start the census with social campaigns to prepare everyone? The point is to eliminate the risk that someone will come in, using the possibility that the census starts, and will try to extort money or especially trick older people (the bell) in some way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u324	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u325	I have a fundamental question: what's this for? What does it make sense in the 21st century to walk around houses and write people down? Specifically. What do we gain from this? 'Cause we're spending a lot of money, not a lot of money. I want to know what's in it for us. I don't know. Will there be more butter? More sausage? Are we gonna live longer? What are we gonna buy for this? Specifically. Not that the Prime Minister will smile more, knowing that he has already broadened his knowledge that we will be expanding our knowledge. We always will be. If we count the leaves in the woods, we'll expand our knowledge, too, and a couple of botanists will be happy. But why do we need it? What do we gain? Specifically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u326	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Marta Golbik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u327	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! And I'm gonna ask you one final, specific question because I didn't want to bring it up in the club talk. It is precisely about clarifying the issue of deaf people, if I may ask, but accurate. I mean, how are we gonna get information on these deaf people? What's the procedure for contacting them? You were also talking about the application. Alternatively, how will this application look like? And, first of all, did you agree or agree with the unions of the deaf? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u328	Thank you very much, Member. I ask the President of the Central Statistical Office of Mr Dominic Rozkrut to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u329	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'm facing a difficult challenge because I know I have very little time to answer so many questions. It's just impossible. I will try to respond one at a time and possibly serve after the meeting. First speech, Civil Coalition. Deaf and deaf people can't call the hotline. Yes, we anticipate this situation, and the appropriate application will be available on the web portal. Believe me, please accept, I am saying this with the utmost determination that we will try to guarantee the possible inclusion of the entire undertaking. We care very much about people with disabilities, and we will do our utmost to ensure that there are no problems here. We are prepared for such situations. Transferring the implementation of the inventory in several countries. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, in some countries the inventory is being moved, but in others it is successfully implemented. In the previous year, such a census was carried out by the United States, we carried out an agricultural census. In May of this year, Canada moves with the census. We are in the vanguard of those countries which, thanks to the use of modern methods, are able to carry out a census even under such difficult conditions. Please note, I would very much like to point out that this is not the traditional census we think of based on the experience of previous editions. This is a very advanced method that combines a number of administrative registers. We collect information from more than 40 administrative registers, combine them with interviews conducted directly, attention, with interviews carried out on the Internet, and if this is not possible, by telephone. Direct interview, face-to-face, is a last resort. We will only use it if there is such a possibility and only in cases where this is indicated. So that the census method we use is very modern. Enough to say, because here we have a question about international specialists that we are considered to be such specialists. We participate in a number of development programmes, sharing experiences on how censuses are carried out with developing countries. Next question, Mr Trela, Left. Will we be able to inoculate everyone by July? Of course, I will not speak on these matters. Let me just repeat that the census method also takes into account such a theoretical situation that if this is not possible, we will not be conducting direct interviews at all. That's why we need an extension of the census to get phones -- that's one of the other questions -- to have more time for such flexible management of how to keep the inventory at a given time. So there is no such risk here. Are we bound by international regulations? Yes, of course we are, but here's some flexibility. Therefore, some countries that planned to carry out a census in the form of traditional paper-based solutions are forced to move it for a different moment. Coalition Poland. Asking for insufficient time extension. It seems to us that at this extended time we are able to carry out the inventory. That is why we obtained very precise contact information from Poles. We'll be doing phone interviews again, assuming it's necessary. We encourage everyone to the basic form, which is the web samospis. Next question, Mr Czesław Siekierski. The CUS provides knowledge. Yes, thank you very much for this explanation, because this is in some ways also the answer to Mr Sosnier's question. Of course, I'm not getting a divorce because I could talk about it for hours, which is why there's a census. Believe me, believe me... Specifically... ...that it's not a simple thing. Of course, I am not going to explain this to you in one sentence, and I am very sorry for that, but if you would like to know more, we invite you, to the Central Statistical Office, we are very happy to present you with a very detailed argument, only this requires a little commitment from you... One specific, one specific. ...and not such a simple question that cannot be answered in one sentence. Now for the next question, Mr Krzysztof Tuduj of the Confederation. The changes take into account the difficulties. The amount of PLN 400 million seems large, but please remember that this is the same amount that we spent 10 years ago on carrying out the census, and in the meantime we were dealing with inflation, so really this is a much smaller amount, we managed to reduce these costs. On the other hand, this amount provides for a fairly large amount for the dissemination of censuses, i.e. 50 million PLN. That's why we need this money to reach out to all groups, to all local communities, to all minorities, to explain the idea of the census and to encourage everyone to participate. I would like to speed up the information that this money is, of course, used to buy appropriate information campaigns in non-public media. Public media are required by this law to carry out such a campaign in the framework of a public mission and public media with these funds we do not pay. Next question, Mrs Joanna Mucha, Poland 2050: Are we considering the possibility of infection here? That's why we prepared the inventory in such a modern way to minimize the risk of contact. Nowadays, there are no more robbers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The training of accountants continues in such a way that they are carried out remotely. And I'm afraid I won't answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u330	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak? I don't see your MP. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the draft law amending the Law amending the Law - Hunting Law and certain other laws (prints No 932 and 958). I would like to ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u331	Thank you very much. High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, I present a report on the parliamentary draft law amending the Law amending the Law - Hunting Law, print No 932, committee report, print No 958. The first reading of the project took place at a committee meeting on 23 February this year, followed by a detailed examination of the project. High Izbo! Both the hunting economy and the estimation and payment of hunting compensation have been controversial for years. The work on changes in the Hunting Law in the previous term of the Sejm lasted over a year. Tedious work, consultation with numerous stakeholders led to the adoption of a thorough amendment of the Law of 22 March 2018. A further amendment of these provisions resulted from the Law of 20 December 2019 amending certain laws to facilitate the eradication of certain infectious animal diseases. In accordance with the provisions laid down at that time, Article. Paragraph 7 2 Division of the voivodship into hunting circuits and counting of hunting circuits into individual categories by resolution of the voivodship sejm before the date of entry into force of this statutory amendment shall remain valid until 31 March 2021. Also up to this date, the agreements concluded for the lease of hunting circuits shall apply. In the course of the work on changes to Hunting Law in the previous term, the opinions of the Marshals of voivodships were taken into account in order to extend the deadline for the division of voivodships into hunting circuits due to the complexity of this task, the necessity of multilateral consultations and arrangements, the great amount of work. This deadline was set at 31 March 2021 rather than 31 March 2020. However, due to the pandemic, due to difficulties with the remote completion of the split procedure, sometimes repeated consultations and arrangements with very many entities, the term set out in the Law on Hunting Law was not respected by local governments of voivodships. Therefore, it is necessary to amend the Act of 22 March 2018 and to define new terms for voivodship local governments. This need is being met by the Parliamentary draft law contained in print No 932. In line with the proposed new wording of the Article. Paragraph 7 1 the deadline during which voivodship sejmies are obliged to make new divisions of voivodships into hunting circuits by way of a resolution will be postponed from 31 March 2021 to 31 December 2021. Thus, the divisions of voivodships into hunting circuits and their classification into different categories made prior to the date of entry into force of the amended act will remain valid until 31 March 2022. The lease agreements for hunting circuits in force on the date of entry into force of the amended act will apply until 31 March 2022 in accordance with the amended article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of this Act. An important reference point here is the hunting and economic year beginning on 1 April and ending on 31 March, to which must be applied, adjusted lease agreements for hunting circuits, actually all the activity in this area. Ladies and gentlemen! It is clear that the submission of this deadline raises a lot of controversy, is subject to reasonable criticism, while the task of the responsible legislator is to respond to the state that we are dealing with, and in the discussion that took place in the committee, we talked about the need to decide on disciplinary measures and to mobilise regional governments to fulfil their statutory obligations. However, this is difficult to do in this law, because like any disciplinary measure they must be prosecuted impeccably and after consultation. I think it's gonna happen. High Izbo! In the course of the detailed work on the project, the Environment Committee amended Article 1. 1. In addition, the amendment adopted by the vote introduced the draft Article. 2, referring to the divisions of voivodships into hunting circuits and classifications into particular categories of circuits which were carried out by voivodship seymikas, which were able to comply with the statutory obligation. These divisions will start to apply on 1 April 2022. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Art. 3 provides that the law shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication with effect from 31 March 2021. The draft was adopted by the committee by 11 votes in favour with 8 opponents and 2 abstentions. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, please adopt the draft law contained in the committee's report in print No 958. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u332	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Maria Kurowska, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u333	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the club Law and Justice I have the honour to present the position of the club in the scope of the draft law amending the law on amendment of the law - Hunting Law. The main objective of the law amending the law discussed by the President is to ensure continuity of the conduct in Poland by the tenants and managers of hunting circuits in the hunting economy, the estimation of hunting damage in crops and agricultural fetuses and the payment of compensation due for this, as well as action to combat African swine fever. The direct reason for the legislative work is the threat of the expiry of the existing division of Poland into hunting circuits and existing agreements for the lease of hunting circuits before the new division of voivodships into hunting circuits by seymikas of voivodships and the conduct of the procedure related to the lease or transfer of hunting circuits to the Management Board. The Act of 22 March 2018 amending the Law - Hunting Law and certain other laws obliges in Article. Paragraph 7 1 seymikas of voivodships to be divided into hunting circuits within the voivodship by resolution by 31 March 2021. At the same time, in accordance with the Article. Paragraph 7 2 of this law divisions of voivodships into hunting circuits and the classification of hunting circuits into individual categories made before the date of entry into force of this law shall remain valid until 31 March 2021. By the end of January 2021 resolutions on the division of voivodships into hunting circuits were adopted only in seven voivodships, i.e. Opole, Lubuskie, Lower Silesia, Warmia and Mazury, Pomerania, Świętokrzyskie and Podkarpackie, which I represent. Given the current state of play on draft resolutions on the division of voivodship into hunting circuits in other voivodships, it is not possible to adopt these resolutions in all voivodships until 31 March 2021. Therefore, the Marshal's Office of the Mazowieckie Voivodship and the Marshal's Office of the Małopolska Voivodship requested the Minister of Climate and Environment to undertake work on extending the deadline for the division of voivodships into hunting circuits. The loss of validity of the current division of the voivodship into hunting circuits, while the lack of possibility of re-leasing them due to the failure to make a new division of voivodships into hunting circuits, will lead to a situation in which in part of the territory of the Republic of Poland it will be impossible to conduct a widely understood hunting economy. In particular, it will not be possible to take action to counter the hunting damage caused by the game in crops and agricultural fetuses and their estimation by the tenants of the hunting circuits and their payment of compensation due for this purpose. It will also be impossible for the tenants to manage the hunting circuits with the populations of the game, leading to an uncontrolled increase in the population of individual species, thus translating into the size and value of the damage done in crops and agricultural fetuses, including for wild boars that are the reservoir of the presence of the virus. ASF in the environment. As regards the deadline for the amendment - already mentioned by the President - the seismics are to adopt resolutions on this matter by 31 December. This is an excellent term because it will allow the conclusion of lease contracts before the start of the next marketing year 2022/2023. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The proposed term vacathio legis is also without prejudice to the principle of a democratic rule of law. Thus, the Law and Justice Club supports this bill and will vote for it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u334	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u335	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Imagine that one day, hunters come into the land you own and say that they can kill animals in this area or, otherwise, hunt. As owners of this land, you are in no position to do anything at all, because over your heads officials have decided that there will be a hunting circuit here. And such lawlessness, which is still in force today, has accepted the PiS for years. Despite the verdict of the true Constitutional Court, the state is doing nothing to change anything about this legislation, because all that you have said here is that this is a pretense of action. I told her seven times, and she told hers. The Constitutional Tribunal dealt with the case in 2014. He felt that the Hunting Law restricts the freedom of owners, that their constitutional rights are thus being violated. He gave 18 months to change the rules. And it's not like you've been waiting for this year and a half. The State did not start work until 2018, and today the legal status is actually that there is a law that is incompatible with the Constitution. The knee-pushing act you're still trying to give the law its power to act backwards. You've got deadlines for absolutely nothing. You have no right to property. You care more about hunters who do business, let me say gently, questionable ethically. I wanted to make you aware that private property is limited in this way. Private owners have only been in the theory of owners for 7 years because they can't manage their territory, they can't disable them from hunting circuits. Everything today works according to the old faulty law. And this bill we're talking about here today is another proof of your attitude towards the legal order as regards your political interests. And we here and in committee meetings, when we discuss this, call on you to stop acting against the law in the interests of hunters and finally to see the rights of ordinary citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u336	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Urszula Zielińska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u337	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The state for today is that hunting wheels can hunt on private land, and if the landlord disturbs them, the hunter can accuse him of obstructing the hunt, for which there are criminal sanctions. Ridiculous? Yes. Incompatible with the constitution? Of course, it is incompatible with the Constitution, because the 2014 Constitutional Court judgment states that the rules allowing private property to be included in hunting circuits without looking at their owners are incompatible with the Constitution. So? And for the last seven years, these regulations have still been in force. Does the proposed novel fix it? No. The novel extends the current state by another year, a state in which hunting wheels unpunishedly violate the very essence of our right to property, namely art. 64 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. In addition, this novel gives the hunting wheels the right to act retroactively in its original version before the PSL amendment. Another violation of the Constitution. In addition, if that were not enough, this novel is incompatible with the Sejm's rules, because it was not consulted with the local government. So this is, attention, a new record of the Sejm, which today is a dummy of the institution of lawmaking. We have a double violation of the Constitution and a non-compliance with the Sejm's rules in the three-man act. Remember, when you raise your hand behind this novel, you are in charge of breaking the law. As a legislator, you will deliberately break the constitution and violate fundamental civil property rights. But not only do we expose the traps of this simple technical novel, as it has been presented to us, but we propose how to solve it in the amendment. Our amendment gives additional time to local authorities and at the same time results in the implementation of the 2014 Constitutional Court judgment. At what cost? The cost of stopping hunting in only three voivodships by the end of this year. I think that's all you can do for the rule of law in Poland as responsible legislators. Please support this amendment. [[Applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u338	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u339	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are discussing an amendment to the Hunting Law, which provides for an extension of the current legal and factual situation until 31 March 2022. It maintains the current division of voivodships into hunting circuits and maintains the lease of voivodships by hunting wheels. Three voivodships did not have time to establish a new division into hunting circuits and to carry out the entire procedure related to leasing or transfer to the management board of hunting circuits. Let's look at the procedure itself, specifically what was discussed yesterday at the meeting of the Environment Committee, i.e. the implementation of the 2014 Constitutional Court judgment on the right of owners to exclude their property from the hunting area. Ladies and gentlemen! We live in some legal fiction. There are voivodships in which applications for exclusion from the hunting circuit are rejected, although there are serious arguments for this, and not because the applications are unfounded or misargued, poorly justified. The attention of farmers, organic farmers, livestock farmers who may be frightened by hunters shall be rejected. The problem is what is the composition of advisory teams that do not take into account the applications of landowners or tenants. And it's these stores that influence these decisions. Let us also remember that legal entities such as foundations, associations or companies are excluded from this process. Moreover, there is no possibility of updating these resolutions, i.e. someone who will acquire the land in the future, will not be able to seek such exclusion. This is a big problem. And that's something we really should lean on. Anyway, back to this ruling by the Constitutional Court... Let's take a look at what happened. In 2014, a period of 18 months was set for adapting the right to the judgment. The provisions were only amended in 2018. The Act, on which we applied at the beginning of this term, which was to help fight against ASF - notabene this epidemic continues, new outbreaks arise and here somehow there is no effectiveness in fighting - it extended it until 2021, and now we are doing it again. I see here a very big problem about how we proceed, what work at Parliament level looks like at all. I would therefore like to point out that the extended amendment does not solve any of the problems that the Constitutional Tribunal has highlighted, extending the current state by one year, maintaining unconstitutional solutions that violate fundamental rights of citizens and citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u340	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u341	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As you can see, a relatively small, because procedural, it would seem, a novel of the Law of Hunting, however, provides the emotions of the High House. I'm not surprised. In any case, I would like to say that - I will refer to this at the very end - this short novel concerns a change of the deadline for the adoption of resolutions by the voivodship sejmies concerning the division of voivodships into circuits and the classification of hunting circuits into individual categories and the change of the deadline or extension of current leases until the end of the marketing year, i.e. 31 March 2022. This is the main message of this novel. This is also linked to the change which obliges the voivodships to adopt these resolutions - I am talking about those seymics which have not yet fulfilled this obligation - until 31 December 2021, so that there is no such situation that again in the next year one of the seymists will ask for another extension of the deadline for adopting resolutions. This is so that these new changes concerning the designation of hunting circuits and tenants can enter into force with a new marketing year, i.e. 1 April 2022. Moreover, the facts for today indicate that 9 of 16 voivodships, or actually voivodship sejmiks, adopted resolutions on the division of voivodships into hunting circuits and their categorization. And here, of course, there was a doubt in connection with the parliamentary draft law that it would not be such a situation that the extension of the term of leases by 1 year would not result in the annulment of the resolutions adopted. So in order to protect himself from it, he was brought in, among others. by Mrs Urszula Pasławska and the draft amendment adopted by the committee as a whole aimed at clarifying, stating that they remain in force and will not have to be re-established. The other local governments, as has been said many times here, indicated that they have difficulties, mainly caused by the epidemic, among others. in fulfilling this deadline, and this is argued by the fact that the implementation of this new division requires the secondment of workers or public consultation, and this is often related, of course, to changes in the boundaries of hunting circuits, especially where they were circuits, it can be called, trans-voivodeship, located not only within one voivodeship. The lack of resolutions will result in a lack of legal basis for extending leases, as well as many other complications related to the performance of duties as regards the hunting economy. This is important because, ladies and gentlemen, who hasn't met with the problems that farmers are facing, who are demanding an estimate of hunting damage, doesn't know what we're talking about. Often, all the work of farmers who run farms in which they have put not only their energy, their work, but still on which they have additionally spent money to prepare agricultural areas, is ruined when the free-at-state game, which is owned by the state, destroys there. Of course, this requires an estimate. We know what the problems were, there were different proposals, not all of them happy. And it was returned to the fact that the hunting wheels would continue to be the main entity responsible for the estimation of hunting damage. We therefore consider that this novel is necessary and can be of such a lapidar nature. As I said at the outset, conclusions were made, which were among others. Articleed by my three colleagues, who followed each other on the fact that the Constitutional Tribunal's ruling on respect for property rights and the possibility of exclusion was not implemented, e.g. an object from the hunting circuit at the request of the owner of the object. This is an important civil right, but on the other hand it must also be acknowledged that this requires unfortunately the government to prepare a novel, because the consequences of this are multiple. It seems to me that such an incidental amendment tabled by the High House by some other right-wing Members will not resolve all the dilemmas related to such exclusion. Therefore, on behalf of the coalition club Poland - Polish People's Party, I request that this project be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u342	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Michał Urbaniak, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u343	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In its judgment of 10 July 2014, the Constitutional Tribunal challenged the constitutionality of the law - Hunting Law, raising the question that private parcels cannot be excluded from the circuit. The Court gave the Sejm a year to change the rules, and since it was the last year of the term of office - quite inept, let us agree - the Civic Platform, nothing has taken place in this case and the Sejm has not voted on it. There have been no new circuits since then, and they should be established for 10 years. We're in the state of 2015. Although the Sejm amended the law - Right Hunting in 2018, the possibility of excluding its private land was introduced, but the Polish Hunting Union of the Ministry was also subordinated and an unconstitutional ban on the participation of people under 18 years of age in hunting - that is, a collision with art. 48 Constitution: the right to raise children according to their own beliefs. In this Seym there was also a project in this term that would change it, but unfortunately it did not work. This pathology still exists. The bill's amendment gave the voivodship sejm time to change hunting circuits by the end of March 2020. However, ASF came and introduced a specialty that extended this period until 31 March 2021. It's okay. Unfortunately, it wasn't prepared either. The problem is that at this point, the people who are responsible for the designation of these hunting circuits have also failed to comply with their duties. This should be branded. The problem is that £3 is also subject to the ministry, so it can't really protest. Here's an appeal to the ministry: just allowing this state of affairs to be maintained, that is, extending again this period in which seymies can establish new circuits, has several consequences. This is a loss to the State Treasury because compensation for damages is paid from the State Treasury. This is a loss for farmers, because they may lose their crops because of animals that can enter crops. It is also a risk for drivers - an increased number of accidents involving wild animals. This is also the reason for poaching, because there are no hunting guards in these specific areas. This is also a risk of further ASF outbreaks and this is a consequence I mean, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you I need you to sort this out, not do a raccoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u344	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Krzysztof Tuduj, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u345	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Touching the Hunting Law, it is difficult not to continue with the question outlined by me at the previous session of the Sejm as part of the parliamentary statement. At that time I noticed the problem of the growing population of wolves in Poland. It is based on the fact that wolves, which are growing more and more and which already exist in practically all of Poland, are increasingly chosen as prey by humans. Attacks occur not in wild boars, but in farming areas, and even, which raises a particular and justified concern, on private and fenced properties. The diet of these predators are not only breeding animals, but also home animals, especially dogs. I explain to the doubters: I have no dislike for wolves, no personal one, on the contrary, I admire these beautiful animals, and I am glad that they were protected. I also do not address the subject at the request of the hunters lobby, I raise it in the interest of the safety and mental comfort of those Poles who are really dealing with this problem. The case is mainly related to the prose of life in the country, but as I mentioned earlier, wolves also visit the voivodship cities. Of course, this is not a scary scale for today, but it must not be underestimated. For example, the case from my district last weekend: the wolves attacked a herd of dandelions at Oleśnica in Lower Silesia, forced the fence, like the predators, torn the animals apart, fed on them, a total of nine pieces. Yeah, that's a big treat. Another fresh example: Podkarpathie, on 16 February in Komańcza commune in Nowy Łupków, wolves invaded private property, attacked, bite the dog in front of three children. Two days later, they were hanging out at elementary school. I think that no mother in Poland would want her children to experience such moments of horror. Ladies and gentlemen! I appeal to the government, [[♪ The bell ♪]] To consider including the wolf on the wild game list, and it is certainly necessary to set a limit on the expansion of the wolves. Wolves are important, but people are more important. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u346	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u347	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This law is unconstitutional because it extends the state of lawlessness again, in which a special caste of hunters rules and divides the territory of the Republic. The special caste, which in the Seym has its part over divisions, from right to left. A special caste that ignores even property rights, not to mention granting itself exceptional privileges, such as: license to slaughter wild boars under the pretense of fighting ASF. I checked: no one counts how many of these animals were really infected. This is the official answer of the government. So let's stop with the illusion, it's not about the law, it's about getting out of the law, it's about preserving the privileges of hunters. This law is only to be blown away in its entirety and such a project Poland 2050 will never support. We're not gonna let them make deer out of us. We will not survive this loss, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u348	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. Question time - 1 minute. As the first Mr Artur Łącki, the Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. There it is, there it is. No, where? There isn't, there isn't. No. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Tracz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u349	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 7 years ago, the Constitutional Tribunal issued a judgment that the current division of voivodships into hunting circuits infringes fundamental constitutional law, property rights. Those who own the area had no influence on whether or not the area would be in the hunting district. In the perimeter. Therefore, they could not prevent hunters from running around their territory with shotguns. For 7 years the Sejm and the Senate have ignored the fact that maintaining the old division into hunting circuits is unconstitutional. And today we're working on a bill to extend this by another year. Hunting law requires radical reconstruction, a law that respects the constitutional rights of Poles and Poles, not sanctioning the privileges of hunters. Are these changes in the Hunting Law planned? Will we continue to pretend that we do not adopt non-constitutional rules introducing non-constitutional solutions (the bell) 7 years after the judgment of the tribunal?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u350	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u351	Chief of the Kaczynski Security Committee! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Soon the High House will be voting whether or not to waive my immunity so that I can stand trial for calling hunters sadists. But how else to name people who killed 0.5 million boars in just one year, 200,000. birds and 1 million other animals, and it's all for entertainment, and now they're relocating the constitutional entry into force of a law that would give property owners the opportunity to decide not to kill wild animals in their territory? If it weren't for those degenerates with guns, most animals wouldn't be afraid to approach people. We could then admire the beauty of these animals and their majesty, learn from them culture and sensitivity. We could just become better people. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Dear fellow Members, Think about it before you let the thoughtless killing of everything and everyone else happen again. Amen.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u352	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u353	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The reason for this project is the fight against ASF and the threat to pigs. In the meantime, the facts contradict the combination of the need for mass slaughter of wild boars and the fight against ASF. Scientists are talking about it. They talked about it a year ago, and now they're renaming appeals to fight ASF by bio-insurance and taking dead boars out of the woods. Out of 0.5 million wild boars that were slaughtered last year, only 0.4% There were patients with ASF. That's one thing. But in the background of all this today is the protection of pigs. I have a question: Will this government finally become wise and act intelligently and with some perspective? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is that a question? I'm almost done. Pig farming is the production of greenhouse gases. 80% greenhouse gases from agri-food production come from the mass breeding of cattle and cattle. Do you have that information from anywhere? I have this information, this is scientific information, ma'am. The methane that produces animals causes 28 times greater warming per molecule than CO Your marshal, time. Well, if you'll excuse me, don't bother the Member. Annual emissions of methane and nitrous oxide are 7 billion t of carbon dioxide. Time. Please respect the rules... Thank you very much, Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u354	Please, my fellow Members, I am conducting the deliberations and allow you to conclude your sentence and thought, both on the left and on the right. Please don't... After a minute. But not after a minute, pity. Madam, please, without discussion, I am in the middle of a debate. Please, Mr Marek Dyduch, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u355	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I'd like to ask you a question. It was about the issue of exemptions, which is raised in such an emotional way. First of all, in today's legal situation, where there are no resolutions on hunting circuits, can these exemptions be made? Secondly, if the exemption should be applied for in the future and the automatic switch-off would take place, I ask whether those who have excluded their land will be liable for their own damages, whether they will be covered by insurance, or whether these damages will cover the State Treasury, regardless of their exclusion. Thirdly, why is there a problem with shut-downs today? Is it a matter of procedure, dislike, or a hunting lobby, or is it an administrative procedure that has to go its way? Last question on exemptions: Are there countries (the bell) where such exemptions and damage are paid by the owners and not by the Treasury? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u356	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u357	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I do not see Mr Grzyb, who spoke about nine voivodships that have not adopted resolutions. It was the state of January. You are deliberately using this data to show a great deal of unpreparedness, and the truth is that in February it is only three voivodships: Mazowieckie, Małopolskie and Łódź. Since we are at local authorities, I had the opportunity to ask the applicant yesterday where the conclusions of these local authorities are. Where are the magazines from the Marshals of the voivodships to change this bill? Where were the local government officials at the committee meeting yesterday, where they could take the floor and tell them how much they needed this change of law because they didn't make it through time? There are no votes. You were unable to present anything, so in whose interest do you submit this law to the Sejm? We know exactly how you feel about local governments, and we see how you treat local governments, even when it comes to the distribution of finances. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, you're talking about today's legal chaos. Okay, let's get to the point. I wanted to ask you how this bill will change this legal status. How will it force local authorities to adopt resolutions and change lease agreements in March next year at the end of 2021? Thank you very much. You haven't created any mechanisms in this bill that would improve it, and we're probably going to be working on the same bill next year to do another year for hunters... Is everyone gonna be here for half a day? ...and you're well aware of that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u358	Thank you very much. Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u359	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to say that the person who is the author of the concept of solving the problem of this bill... The Civic Coalition still has twice as much time. ...in view of the fact that not all seismics have adopted appropriate resolutions, there has been no special rally. I'm sure he's not a genius. I wouldn't have it any other way. He did, all the more so because, as Mrs Gajewska rightly said, there are really three seismics left. This law is of dubious quality and I think it's against the constitution. You think or you're sure? However, the problems remain and I would like to ask if you receive information and inquiries from these hunting circles, which have circuits located in two voivodships, three voivodships. There's a hell of a conflict out there. Of course, everything can be done by force. How do you want to compensate for the work they put into these circuits and they're about to lose it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you have a concept for solving this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u360	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u361	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question. When are we going to proceed with specific regulations such as government projects rather than parliamentary ones? Indeed, in this situation, it is better for specialists to speak, not for political warfare, and often for those who do not have much knowledge about it, in this regard. I have the impression that some Members and some Members, with all due respect, learn about hunting and hunting from a fairy tale about the Red Riding Hood and perhaps another. What's that for? You have to talk about it because that's what farmers are waiting for. There's no need to be insulted. First of all, farmers are waiting for this, but it is also a simple administrative decision to extend this deadline. The Member criticises the previous speaker, right? I'm asking you to calm down. I'm referring to everyone. Let me finish. We need to process this, but as a government project, the right people will say so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u362	Thank you very much, sir. A lot more... I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. Please, Mrs Urszula Zielińska, the Civic Coalition. Mrs... I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u363	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to dispel your concerns... Come on. ...if you believe this novel is needed to combat ASF. She's not needed. In order to combat ASF, first of all, passive supervision is needed, second, bioinsurance, first of all, and not blind shooting at wild boars. To prove it, I'll give you the data from the agricultural ministry that we received last year. From wild boars shot in Poland only, attention, 0.5% I'll say it again, 0.5%. He was suffering from ASF. That's enough. Question for applicants. How does this non-constitutional law help fight the ASF? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u364	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Bogusław Wontor, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u365	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Representatives of the Government! I have a question for the government. Assuming theoretically that this law will enter into force, as the government will motivate, it will mobilize those voivodships that did not meet this deadline, and that is why we have this discussion today. So it won't be like that in a while. We'll meet again, and we'll discuss the next extension, because that's the situation... That's what I said, sir. ...can happen. I'd like the government to... I know it's been mentioned, but I'd like the government to refer to it because the government has certain instruments, which is why I'm asking. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u366	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Marek Rutka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u367	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Two questions. What is the legal status of hunting areas where no new division into hunting circuits has been made? In fact, the second question comes from the first one. On what basis were the animals shot off? If there's no legal basis for this shooting, were there any interventions in relation to hunters who did this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u368	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment, Minister Edward Siarka, to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u369	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to thank the Member who represented the group of Members initiating this draft law very warmly on behalf of the Ministry of Climate and Environment. A law that is necessary in our assessment to maintain the continuity of the lease of hunting circuits and, above all, to take care of the whole field related to hunting, nature conservation and animal welfare. The first such correction was that if we were to sum up how many voivodship seymists had adopted a resolution, then eight seymists had adopted a resolution on the division of voivodship into hunting circuits and exactly eight such resolutions had not been adopted today. The last resolution which entered us, to the Ministry, is the resolution of 18 February from the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodeship. In this way, it can be said today that in eight voivodships these resolutions were adopted. You have just devoted a great deal of space to matters arising from constitutional rights and constitutional judgment of 2014. I would like to say very clearly that the current rules do not restrict property rights in any way, because one of the Members states that the current rules restrict the free disposal of immovable property. It's just a simple misunderstanding. The judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal was, you can say, carried out fully in the legal solution in 2018, when, please note, two options were included in these records. One which - unfortunately it is true - cannot be fully implemented today because we do not have divided voivodships into hunting circuits in those parts where resolutions have not been adopted. So we're talking here about excluding land from lease. If such lease land is excluded, the owner of the holding shall also not be entitled to compensation in order to be clear. And that's one way. At any time, however, the landlord may apply for the exclusion of the land from the hunt and then simply submit such an application to the old-fashioned, and can do so simply in any case. These are the provisions of the Act, which is in force today and was implemented in 2018. I want to make this very clear. Of course, it would seem that this amendment should not give rise to much discussion, but, as we can see, it gives rise to very great emotions, and well only all the elements contained concerning the functioning of hunting in Poland, which is otherwise a very large tradition, is a part of cultural heritage. Well, let me put it this way. Let me get this straight. It's not like hunting, like some people would like to see it, is seen as fun. Or some kind of deviant. It is inscribed in Polish culture, simply. Just take it as something that's obvious. However, I understand the various sensitivity of Members and the desire to personalise animals, which often lead us astray in this discussion. But it has to be made clear. As regards the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, this judgment also contained a wording which referred to the fact that the boundaries of the circuits must close within the limits of the voivodship. That is why it is being done today, Mr Klimczak asked... Circuits must close within the voivodship. And unfortunately, I have to admit, as far as we're concerned, that marshals or seismics use different policies. Personally, I am in favour of such a solution, that even if at the borders of the voivodships it happens that we have circuits smaller than 3000... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Hektars. ...hectares, I'm a proponent to create a circuit, because he gives the possibility of a circle that has so far been managed in this area so that it can lease. And often the marshals make decisions, and that's where conflicts arise, that they join the neighboring circle. And that's where conflict comes from. However, it is actually difficult, because in some places, regions we have such cases where there are serious conflicts between hunters, where often even the borders of voivodships run in areas that are not precisely marked. Because it's good if the border runs somewhere through the railroad tracks, the road, the river, etc., and it often runs through the fields and, in fact, there will be some effort to separate these areas. Of course, there are also problems with moving the circuit, when the shifting of circuit boundaries causes property issues. But it's also regulated. Namely, the wheels must normally transfer to each other this property on the basis of the protocol, and this will already be taken care of by the hunting district, who will appoint committees to evaluate these circuits already at the time of lease. But in general, the transfer of this property must take place on the basis of some protocol, because there are undoubtedly circles that have invested in the construction of e.g. hunting equipment, and they will now be outside the borders of the voivodship, and unfortunately it will have to be regulated somehow. Mr Wontor's question, this issue also appeared, namely how to mobilise the voivodships to adopt resolutions. It's a big challenge. We in the Ministry tried to mobilize the voivodships to actually speed up this work, but the pandemic slightly prevents any kind of important issues that ladies raised, namely consultations... Minister, get close to the end. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Edward Sulphur: ...so that those who want to disable the area from the lease have the chance to communicate with the committees that make the assessments. However, it is important that these resolutions be adopted. If it turns out that we have some tardiness here within a year, we will have to impose a legal sanction that the marshals will pay for the damage if they do not divide the voivodship into circuits. We will certainly introduce such a provision within a year, while following this process of making plans in individual voivodships, if it does not follow the timetable we have planned. Thank you very much, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Edward Sulphur: Thank you, Marshal. Of course, I was not able to answer all the questions because of the time constraints, but I assure you that we are following this case so that, in particular, the interests of farmers do not disappear from our field of view, because in the spring we will have very big problems with compensation payments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u370	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, as corrected. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u371	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! Thank you for addressing the issue of problematic circuits: cross-border or those with less than 3 000. ha. You have quite interesting thoughts that can cause these tensions to unload. The question is whether you would like to send a recommendation to the Seyms on what to do in such situations to avoid these unnecessary tensions between the circuits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u372	Thank you very much. I would ask the representative of the applicants of Mr Robert Telus to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u373	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I do not hide that I smiled a little during this discussion, because it really is a bill that cleans up, introduces a certain order or allows order to be put in place. It prevents us from going into chaos, helping us avoid the chaos that could happen after March 31st. Why would that happen? Ladies and gentlemen! This is a simple law, which extends the possibility until the end of the year that seymikas can adapt their circuits to the boundaries of voivodships. It's a very simple thing the seismics didn't do. He is not to blame for the Sejm, they are not guilty of any group, but are guilty of the marshals, the seyms who did not adopt these resolutions. Here the Member asked: "Whose interests do you work in? Looks like it's against local governments. No, we're not acting against local governments, we're just giving time to those self-governments that haven't made it so far, they didn't want to, they couldn't... I don't know what, but they didn't make those resolutions. There was also a question, one of the Members asked if we would meet with such a matter next year. We will not meet, Madam, I guarantee you, because if it turns out that certain seismics, maybe a mazovian or some other, will not want to introduce this, then we will introduce sanctions and force them to introduce it - because they are forced by the Constitutional Tribunal to introduce it, they will have to, for example. Mazowiecki, just to bring it in. The question is why a parliamentary project should be government. No, sir, if you knew... I think you know there are different ways: civic, parliamentary, government. We chose the government. As Members, as a group of Members, we wanted to sort this out and sort it out. That you're surprised, I don't understand. In fact, whose business we're in, that's the question that was. E.g. in the interests of farmers. If a Member of the PSL, whichever Member is present and says that this is a bad bill, that he is surprised at why the MPs, or says that this law was made by people who do not know each other... Ladies and gentlemen, this is primarily a matter for farmers. Why is it the farmers' business? Because if there were no such resolutions after March 31, there wouldn't be anyone to pay compensation to the farmers. This is one very important thing. As a result, the agreements will continue to apply and the wheels will be responsible for hunting damages, they will pay compensation for hunting damages. It's simple. I am not surprised to the Members of Warsaw or from large cities that they do not understand this, but that the Member of PSL does not understand it, I simply do not understand it. How does it work in the fight against ASF? How does that help fight ASF? It's a simple thing, too. What I said: if these agreements were not in force after 30 March, there would be no possibility of wild boars being fired, because there would be no wheel that would be responsible for the circuit. It's a simple thing, too. This is also cooperation and assistance in the fight against ASF. Ladies and gentlemen! As I say, it's a simple bill and the fact that she arouses so much emotion and there are so many different opinions against... You can really smile right under your nose that someone doesn't understand. On the other hand, it makes me so unsatisfied because we want to do something good, and there's a response. And it's not a law on no cow burping with methane, it's not a law on any cases related to... I don't know. This was about pigs, about us growing too many pigs. If someone speaks like your Euro-Message Spurek, that cows are being raped... Dear Members, this is a leftist ideology that should not be reminded here at all, and dear Members have tried to resemble this ideology. This isn't the way. What you ladies were doing here a moment ago, that's action. against Polish agriculture, simple action against Polish agriculture. I personally disagree with this and I will protest because we must support our Polish agriculture (The Bell) and not act against Polish agriculture. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u374	Please take the floor of the rapporteur for the committee, Ms Anna Paluch.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u375	Thank you very much. High Izbo! Dear Messengers! With such emphase and fire in your eyes, you asked here a few moments ago a hail of questions. I get the impression, listening to your questions, that you don't know the law - hunting law. That's the first line. This is a sentence. The Court of Justice of 10 July 2014, i.e. On July 10, 2021, seven years will pass, so do not present false data. But let me remind you that from 10 July 2014 until the end of the term of office of the Government of Platform and PSL was 1.5 years, my dear Member, and your colleagues did not lift a small finger, although they still had 1.5 years of government action to execute this sentence. Why didn't they? Because the cases he was dealing with were difficult. But you guys are a good change. You don't mind, you listen. Mrs. Member! Me, ma'am. I listened calmly. Please behave in accordance with the rules of procedure. They didn't do it, they didn't lift a small finger because it was very difficult and unpopular. And, ladies and gentlemen, who were not in the previous term of office in this House, three times have been amended by these rules on compensation for hunting law. We've been trying to straighten things out that nobody's touched. for several years, although they were a source of very many conflicts, and we listened to people who reviewed our legislative actions. I ask you, in a legal sense, the Law of 22 March 2018 is the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 10 July 2014, because it establishes a procedure for the division of voivodships into hunting circuits, with the possibility of the owner or user of the area to make a statement on the prohibition of hunting on his property. And those provisions contained in the article. 27b - please read it carefully - they are simply the simplest possible. A statement shall be made at the old man's place, the old man shall certify his signature. If he does not conclude a contract for the lease of the hunting circuit, he shall immediately send this statement to the relevant entity. This statement can be withdrawn at the end of the hunting year, but if the owner does not wish to hunt in his territory, he will not receive compensation. Simple, effective rules that are the execution of the judgment of the Tribunal. Please read them and do not ask such foolish questions for the second time. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, as far as all the other issues that are in this bill are concerned, the Minister has spoken about this, and I will not repeat it again. There are ways to get seymists to perform more actively their statutory obligations, but it is clear that this must be done by fully using the legislative path, consulting that there should be no formal reasons to complain about such a procedure. And I can imagine that in a month or two, we'll be working on this so that the marshals will know that they have to be able to do this. Thank you for all the constructive voices in the discussion. I hope we can get the changes to be made. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u376	The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law amending the Law - Educational Law and some other laws (prints Nos 917 and 961). I ask Mrs Lydia Burzyńska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u377	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! On behalf of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth, I present a report on the government draft law amending the Law - Education Law and some other laws, Parliamentary Printing No 917, while the committee's report is print No 961. High Izbo! The amendment of the Act concerns regulation and thus the monitoring of the careers of secondary school graduates. The project sets out the legal framework for the newly created, extended system for monitoring the careers of secondary school graduates. Its primary objective is to support the State's education policy on better matching secondary education to the needs of the labour market. A comprehensive and ambitious system for monitoring the careers of secondary school graduates, introduced by the proposed law, will provide analyses that can be used in the development of education policies carried out by governments and local governments both on a regional scale and at district level. The analyses of educational and professional fates of graduates will be used by various actors, as well as students and of course employers. Symbiosis is the basis for functioning. During the examination of the draft law, the committee accepted one amendment. The Committee on Education, Science and Youth recommends that the government draft law amending the Law - Educational Law and some other laws be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u378	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, is the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u379	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government's draft law amending the Law - Education Law and some other laws, Parliamentary Printing No. 917. The project is a consequence of changes in the vocational training system made by the government during the previous term of office. The Government's draft law provides primarily for the addition of provisions in the Law of 14 December 2016 - Educational law that comprehensively regulates the monitoring of the careers of secondary school graduates. The draft law defines the objectives of the activities carried out, sets out precisely the scope, forms and periods of use of personal data necessary for monitoring and sets out the legal basis for their processing. The education system, in particular vocational education, should respond to the needs of the labour market, promote lifelong learning and allow graduates to mobility in education and occupation. For this to happen, it is necessary to provide feedback on the career of graduates. Knowledge of graduates' careers makes it possible to respond strategically to the education system and labour market policy in an ever-changing socio-economic reality. Information on the monitoring of secondary school graduates' careers therefore plays an important role in adapting the education system to the needs of the labour market, in order to promote competitiveness and innovation at local, regional but also national level, to combat the shortage of skilled workers and to enable graduates to take up satisfactory employment. The proposed changes will also be important for professional advice and will allow for the use of detailed statistics on the situation of secondary school graduates in the labour market. A reliable and easily accessible knowledge of the careers of graduates will build an image of industry education based on evidence. Access to systematically collected and made available information on industry education will help to overcome the negative stereotypes that affect it, although they do not find confirmation in reality. Information on the labour market situation of graduates of certain types of schools and occupations also has a promotional value and can be used to encourage pupils to continue education in industry education. The monitoring system will allow educational decisions to be taken by school leavers based on reliable information on the impact of this choice rather than another school. In the longer term, this information will help to adapt the offer of schools to the needs of pupils and employers. The career monitoring system for graduates will also provide reliable information on the employment conditions and pay of graduates in particular professions, sectors and regions. Such information significantly reduces information asymmetry in relations between first-time graduates and employers. Employers can use this information to update and better match graduate employment to the realities of the labour market. The draft law is not contrary to European Union law. The draft law does not require the submission to the competent authorities and institutions of the European Union, including the European Central Bank, for the purpose of obtaining an opinion, notification, consultation or agreement. Thus, the government's draft law is an essential condition for the preparation of the system in the proposed form, because the data currently available do not provide sufficient grounds for an effective education policy. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of a government bill amending the Law - Education Law and some other laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u380	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Kinga Gajewska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u381	Dear Marshal! Membership! The proposed law is an attempt to solve an extremely important problem, namely the lack of monitoring of the careers of graduates not so many universities, because it is to some extent we can determine how many young people in industry schools. Schools, universities and entrepreneurs have repeatedly pointed to the need for such monitoring. The course itself is appropriate, important, especially in terms of adapting the fields of study, professional schools and further the professional path to the needs of the market. We also pointed out last week the need to adapt such an educational offer to people with special needs, people with Asperger syndrome or aphasia. Monitoring later careers of these people will certainly be a very positive action. On the other hand, many things do not appear in the draft law. It is very valuable that the government wants to lean on the problem of further road and career graduates, to work, as I understand, on adapting education courses to the needs of the labour market, especially since quite recently, with the huge deficit of doctors and nurses, the government did not stop them in the country, saying, let them go. This is a very valuable change of attitude, so as an opposition we thank you for it. We also have huge doubts about the use of collected data, which is really much. These are sensitive data, including income data. It may also be of concern that there is insufficient focus as regards the provisions of the Act for the purposes of this monitoring. In the framework of the sectoral consultation of the Boards, the Office for Personal Data Protection, as well as the European Union Minister for Affairs, indicated that there was no indication of the monitoring objectives, which are the most important, after all, we collect data for some purpose. They had to ask - and rightly so - to take into account and record the purpose of the proposed changes. The overarching objective of monitoring, which is to adapt - once again - the orientations and content of education to the requirements of the labour market, is the most important one in this case. This approach did not sound in the bill, which is why I fear it will end with monitoring and collecting sensitive data. We must remember that this law must be followed by concrete action. Thanks to the data collected, we need to identify a further course of training for future generations. The draft law merely mentions the creation of conditions for better adapting the offer of education to the needs of the labour market. The project lacks any information on how the data obtained from the career monitoring system will affect schools, education courses and curricula. Nor has it been clarified how they should adapt the offer of education to the needs of the labour market, and there are no practical indications here. I hope that monitoring of secondary school graduates will go a little better than monitoring so-called. children missing in remote education and monitoring of teachers, which the Ministry cannot clearly count as missing. According to the projector, the processing of data related to the monitoring of the careers of secondary school graduates does not require investment as it will be carried out using existing IT infrastructure and database systems, analytical software of the Education Information Centre, ZUS, district examination committees and the Information Processing Centre - the State Research Institute. The implementation of monitoring activities will mean the execution of annual enquiries to the databases of the institution concerned. The implementation of the monitoring system does not seem to be possible without a certain amount of investment, and the provision of IT tools or, above all, the training of staff and their new tasks will certainly have an impact on funding. So that the project certainly needs to be worked out, but we are, of course, in favour of working on it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u382	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Bogusław Wontor, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u383	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! On behalf of the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left, I would like to present the position of our club vis-à-vis the government draft law amending the Law - Education Law and some other laws, prints no. 917 and 961. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill aims to provide feedback on the career of graduates. Monitoring in this area is intended to contribute to updating the teaching basis, improving the acquisition of relevant skills and increasing employability. It is also designed to better match skills with labour market needs, address skills shortages, plan, taking into account changing employment and education needs and social needs. High Seym! In accordance with the provisions of the Act, the conduct of monitoring the careers of secondary school graduates will be the task of the Minister responsible for education and education, who should collect and process the detailed records necessary to carry out this task. Mrs. Marshal! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, According to the authors of the proposed amendments after the adoption of this law, it will be possible to better match the offer of education to the needs of the labour market, to provide information which offers an opportunity to raise interest in training in the sector. The adoption of the solutions contained in the project is also intended to increase the efficiency of labour market policies by supporting informational activities of labour market institutions, broadening the scope for evaluation of education and labour market policies. High Izbo! In a very simplistic way, it can be said that it is a more technical law than e.g. political. The Act contains solutions to which we are obliged to adopt in the framework of adapting our right to EU regulation. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! In view of what I have presented, I would like to inform you that Members of the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left will support the government's draft law on amending the Law - Educational Law and some other laws, prints Nos 917 and 961. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u384	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u385	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Revision of the law - Education law towards the introduction of a mechanism for monitoring the careers of secondary school graduates is a very important and desirable issue. Why? As the representative of the government explained at the committee meeting, these figures will allow to assess the situation of graduates in the labour market, among others. through information on the frequency of changes in jobs, income, the period from school leaving to starting work. No, it's not. This is just the prose of this mechanism. In the Government's argument, the introduction of career monitoring should be based mainly, if not exclusively, on the future of the Polish economy, its strength, its competitiveness in relation to the European market. The fate of Polish entrepreneurs, the fate of individual economic activities today depends mainly on human resources. Skillful state policy in this respect is of great importance for the development of our country's economy. Of course, I am not saying that the career of individual students or individuals is just some cog in a large economic mechanism, because it is actually a lifelong choice and one of the main determinants of our future and how life works out for us. All the more so is the state's role in shaping education, so that this future is best for both the student and our economy, at least to avoid obvious wrong paths or sometimes even blind streets. Will career monitoring solve these problems? Unfortunately, in the explanatory memorandum, we have not one opinion on how this mechanism will be implemented, the practice of the functioning of education. It is not enough that a government representative has revealed the real purpose of this action, that is, EU money. If we do not create this mechanism, we will not have the possibility and access to resources from a new financial perspective. Many arguments, much behind, need to be accepted, and the reason is that only now, i.e. In the sixth year of government, Law and Justice took care of it, it is only possible to obtain EU money. This does not, of course, change the fact that the mechanism is needed. Unfortunately, I doubt that the Law and Justice will make any use of this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u386	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Artur Dziambor, Circle of the Parliamentary Confederation. The Member is on his way. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u387	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to say, as far as legitimacy is concerned, whether there should be such a system or not, whether we should be dealing with it. I understand that, in the current education system, in the current management of education, including how the ministry operates now, in terms of how we think about education at all, it is indeed a good direction, and the Confederation will probably support this proposal. But I wouldn't be myself if I hadn't mentioned, by the way, that all these problems that are dealt with by this concrete proposal are problems that wouldn't exist if the school were completely different if there was a school that the Confederation proposed a school voucher that would privatise just some of the schools and schools. It would cause the market to regulate and verify the real needs of education, who is needed in the market. If we had this type of view, we would know perfectly which hands to work are needed to develop. There is no system, and so every time we have to wonder whether it pays us to keep the school in question, whether this school will later create people who will be needed in the labour market. That's exactly the same problem we have with universities. The mass is such students who at this point are studying in directions that are not needed for anyone, which will make them not needed in the labour market for anything with the kind of education with which they will finish their current courses. Why? Because we're coming out of this mode all the time, in which before 1989 we had the famous 7%. educated, higher-educated Poles, and then suddenly there was such a project of great education of the whole society. Turns out everyone has to have a master's degree. And we've led to this state where everyone has a master's degree. At some point, this system will have to be changed. I hope that we will come to this point just to introduce the same educational voucher and these private principles of a normal, market-based approach to education. Meanwhile, this law will have to be adopted, as Mr Klimczak said here, precisely because there are EU funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u388	Thank you very much, sir. I invite you, Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Circle of Poselskie Poland 2050. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u389	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I will present Poland's position 2050 to the draft law on amending the law - Educational law and some other laws. They say knowledge is power. The need to monitor graduates' careers in order to better harmonise vocational training with the labour market, of course, no one questions this law here. On the other hand, it raises doubts, and these are huge doubts, the extent of the data collected. The need to respect the constitutional principles of legality and proportionality of the action of public authorities, mentioned in the explanatory memorandum, is not the only constitutional principle that this draft is breaking. The right to legal protection of private life guaranteed in Article. The 47th Constitution also requires respect, and this project is not respected. Even if the career monitoring system is to secure data by anonymity at the second and third stages of data processing, there is a question why the state should collect such a wide range of data about graduates, but also about teachers. Insurance titles, benefit codes, breaks in contributions, premium base, information about over thirty times the average salary - all this information will be in the hands of the government. The draft law stresses the necessity of processing to carry out a task of public interest and to extend data processing periods and not to the proportionality of the State's collection of citizens' data to the real needs of planning and public administration. Finally, it is also of particular concern that the proposed legislation on the monitoring of graduates' careers should enter into force on the day following the date of publication, which, according to the government, is without prejudice to the principles of a democratic rule of law and is of major public interest. We are wondering what the public interest is and why this law needs to be introduced so quickly. However, any shortening of the vacathio legis period is undesirable and proves a growing legislative mess. It also violates the demand for equality of law and citizens' trust in it. In conclusion, I would like to say that this law should be called a surveillance act, which will give the government access to the privacy of both teachers and young people for many years, and knowledge is power. Therefore, as Poland 2050 we will certainly not support this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u390	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the questions are about to begin. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. I invite Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska from the parliamentary club Left, which I do not see. I therefore invite Mr Piotr Boris from the Civic Coalition, which I do not see. She's probably talking to Mrs. Kretkowska somewhere. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. There isn't. Good. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak - I see. Member, I would like to invite you very warmly. Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u391	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Monitoring the careers of people with special needs is mentioned here, and it is such a bow towards those who are studying, choosing a profession. They're wanted in the labour market, but so what? We all know that this job will not be taken for other reasons and this monitoring is wasted time and money. Why won't they? Because they're gonna be scared, and they're gonna be scared, and their parents are gonna go to work because if they suspend their pension, then the suspension process takes a very long time, even up to a year, so for a year, for example. There's no money if the person at work doesn't work. So I ask: Is this bill and the issue of this monitoring being prepared together? Whether it is an interdisciplinary act, an interdisciplinary record kept [[♪ The bell ♪]] With the social policy department? Because if you don't, you'll agree that for the diagnosis itself it's not necessary for people with special needs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u392	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Dariusz Klimczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u393	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the representatives of the Ministry about the practice of this mechanism, namely how data processed from career monitoring will be implemented in the education system. Please give an example of how he will shape the system. An explanatory example. It comes out of your research that everyone after construction has a job, but it turns out that they start their own company and half fall because they don't have hands to work, people who want to do this job in lower positions. What recommendations will you then make? And can you explain how this system is going to shape our education system in general, also in view of examples? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u394	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Anita Sowinska, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u395	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Of course, monitoring should serve something, which is why I would like to ask you something specific about what I'm interested in. The climate crisis is now the biggest challenge in the 21st century. And that will also be a challenge for those young people who are now learning and who will stop by soon and start working. I would like to ask how the Minister intends to... what programmes he intends to implement, especially in terms of teaching managers and engineers, because they will make important decisions affecting the environment, investment decisions, product design decisions, process design. Will the Minister implement the programmes so that they measure not only the financial aspect but also the environmental aspect? And what control mechanisms are you going to implement, [[♪ The bell ♪]] to achieve these learning outcomes? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u396	Thank you very much. Mrs Kinga Gajewska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There isn't. Mr Bogusław Wontor, parliamentary club of the Left. I would like to invite you very warmly, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u397	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! By listening also to these questions and to the discussion that is, it seems to me that we will be conducting it next year, where this technical law will simply function and work, and then it will be possible to evaluate. And by the way, for those skeptics who say there might be something wrong here, I'm saying that we're already monitoring the careers of high school graduates today, we're just going down the shelf. Just like the others. I said in my statement, this is also being forced by the European Union, because we are adapting the law and this comparable law is to apply throughout the Union. But I ask a question because I also have doubts, and here the minister would say, "Why is vacathio legis like this and not otherwise written in this bill?" After all, it was possible to leave earlier with this law if it really was necessary for it to enter into force more quickly. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or if there is no need for such a fast one, then in a normal, correct way to save the vacathio legis, because later it shows that with the law you can just... make fun of the law and you can just make it as you want. We should follow certain rules and rules. I believe so, and I would ask the Minister to comment on why this is the case. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u398	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I would like to ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education, Minister Marzena Machalek, for an answer and a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u399	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will try to answer the questions that have been raised here, which have already been answered in principle in committee. Thank you very much for actually supporting the objectives of this law. Some say they're indeterminate. Let me remind you that they are broadly described both in the article. 1 law, as well as in the explanatory memorandum and in the OSR. What are the targets? This was presented by the rapporteur. They were also called in the club's position. Targets are pretty obvious. They serve to better shape sectoral and technical transformations, adapt to labour market needs, and increase the attractiveness of industrial and technical education. It is also important to provide information to employers so that they know how schools train. So it can be a common system. This is the next step, I will remind you, the reforms of professional and technical education. One element of the reform is the forecasting of the demand for professions in the national and regional labour markets. This bill will be one of the important elements that will allow us to shape this forecast more accurately. The question was, why do we define these professions every year in the forecast? In the announcement of the Minister of Education and Science, we speak about the increased demand for professions. This is a study that analyzes various data, including data from the CSO. We also use the Delfic method. These data are analysed by the Educational Research Institute, which is an important partner in the preparation of this law. The law was prepared, implemented in the form of projects. Later she was prepared together with the Ministry of Education and Science. It will be used for these purposes. Let me remind you that, as a result of our reform, we have already achieved a great success. Despite the pandemic, the interest in industrial education has increased. For the first time in many years, we have a percentage increase in the number of graduates with above-basic industrial education - also technical education - to 17%. We are pleased that industry schools have become effective schools. Education is correct. Young people and their parents believed it. Therefore, these instruments had to be implemented. We implemented them. When we were preparing the Law on Changes in Vocational Education, 40% primary school graduates and 30% technical school graduates went to unemployment - with the lowest unemployment in Poland from a quarter of a century. That had to be changed. We have changed industry education, adapted it, linked it very strongly to employers, defined the forecast. The forecast also gives us the basis for increasing funding for these professions, which are crucial. We also foresee strategic tasks and objectives for the state. We're not just thinking about who's needed here and now. We also set strategic goals for the development of the state. A lot of people leaned over the data protection issue. We've agreed everything with the Data Protection Officer. The proposed solutions - it is also enshrined in the Act, we explain this in the explanatory memorandum - guarantee a high level of protection of personal data for graduates. In the second stage of processing, as soon as the data linking operations from individual sources have been completed, PESEL and other data will be deleted from the combined set. They will be further processed only in a non-nomised manner. They're supposed to show us what's going on with the alumni. To know something about these alumni, you have to find out. It is about their careers, their choices - not only their profession, but also their further education. This will be further important information to help conduct a good education policy of the state. This is also part of the skill strategy that we recently adopted. This will allow us even better to set forecasts for the demand for jobs in industry and technical education. Thank you so much for all your questions. I want to add that we operate on data that exist and function. We cooperate with the Educational Research Institute and the Education Information Centre. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These are institutions that work with the Ministry of Education, which is why we do not incur additional costs. Let me remind you that the expected results are reliable and easily accessible knowledge of the careers of graduates. The system will respond to the needs of the labour market. Monitoring will provide reliable information on the conditions of employment. It is also one of the elements in terms of raising funds for education and putting them in place in the next perspective. I thank you for your cooperation in the drafting of this law and for your valuable comments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u400	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Rail Transport Act (Prints Nos 933 and 949). I would like to ask Mrs Anna Milczanowska to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u401	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Rail Transport Act, print No. 933. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 16 February 2021, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Infrastructure for First Reading. The Committee on Infrastructure, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 23 February 2021, brings forward: The High Sejm shall adopt the attached draft law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u402	Thank you very much, Madam President, because you know that, apart from wisdom... It's an hour. 8:30, so I bow with respect. Ladies and gentlemen, the Sejm has agreed that in the discussion on this item it will hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Anna Milczanowska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, known for speaking briefly and specifically. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u403	Yes, sir. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice and the Committee on Infrastructure, I would like to present my position on the draft law amending the Law on Rail Transport, print No 933. It's a very technical bill. The discussion was also held in the presence of Minister Bittel here. Nobody was actually against this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill aims to improve the quality of intra-Community rail transport. An institution will be introduced to pre-authorise the European Railway System Management System. Technical solutions will require the approval of the European Union Railway Agency. Railway infrastructure managers will have to apply for approval of the proposed solutions. The actual implementation of the single ERTMS system will allow inter alia. to increase capacity on existing railway lines, increase passenger safety, manage high-speed railway vehicles, harmonise the supply market for infrastructure managers and improve the punctuality of rail services. Documents relating to the safety of the rail system will also be amended. In this respect, a single safety certificate issued by the European Union Railway Agency shall be introduced. The President of the Railway Transport Office will be the competent authority for issuing this certificate for applicants operating only in the territory of Poland. Among the numerous changes contained in this bill, it is also worth paying particular attention to the obligation on carriers to support families and severely injured persons and their families. The carrier will be obliged to provide the victims with comprehensive information on the redress procedure and to provide psychological support at their own expense. The proposed law is fully applicable to the implementation of European Union law. The Republic of Poland has committed itself to implementing the proposed provisions, so Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the law in its entirety. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u404	Thank you, Member. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u405	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Mr. Marshal, how can we briefly talk about a brick like this? You can do it. This is an important bill. I'll tell you why. For decades, rail systems in European countries have developed independently and very different technical solutions have often been used, as the best example is even different rail spacing. This made it difficult and even prevented the provision of competitive transport services in a common railway area which had been built for some time. Competition in the transport market is becoming a reality through the European Union's regulations. However, the opening up of markets takes place gradually. This Law amending the Rail Transport Act implements two Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council: on the interoperability of the European Union rail system of 11 May 2016 and, with the same date, on safety. They are the foundation of the so-called. Fourth railway package. Interoperability is intended to ensure the technical compatibility of the rail systems of the different European Union countries. Within the framework of interoperability, we can distinguish structural subsystems that concern infrastructure, power supply systems, control systems, but also rolling stock. The authority which will be authorised to ensure interoperability requirements in Poland is the President of the Railway Transport Office. In this law, on which we are currently proceeding, we equip the President of the Railway Transport Office with numerous new competences. Greater competence is also the greater responsibility of the President of the UTK. It is the President of the UTK, when it comes to the area of the Republic of Poland, but also the European Union Railway Agency will issue uniform safety certificates. The Act sets out in detail the procedures for obtaining those certificates. The Civic Coalition supports the provisions of the Fourth Railway Package. Interoperability is an opportunity to reduce rail transport costs. The technical coherence of the rail sector is an opportunity to increase competition in rail transport, but also an opportunity to be used in inter-branch competition with road transport. Interoperability can also be used by Polish companies, Polish rolling stock manufacturers, infrastructure components, suppliers of power and control systems. It is also an opportunity for Polish carriers, because they can reduce operating costs by using modern rolling stock. If there is no need to replace locomotives with dual-system locomotives when there is no need to install locomotives which are approved, approved on the market of other countries, then there will be savings: saving time, saving money. Interoperability pays off, and let's add that we are talking about interoperability in rail systems. The railroad's a green transport, too. [[♪ The bell ♪]] healthy air and a better climate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u406	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Robert Kwiatkowski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u407	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before us is a government submission, a draft law amending the Rail Transport Act. As the rapporteur, the rapporteur, has rightly said, this is a very technical, very complex project. Mr Grabarczyk actually illustrated how complex it is, how many pages - from 572 pages - I would add for ease. It's time to talk about it in a simpler language, perhaps. I'm gonna try to do this job. This presentation, High Izbo, will end the introduction, implementation of the 4th railway package, which started in the European Union at the beginning of 2013, and was intended, attention, to complete the construction of a single European railway area in order to promote competitiveness and growth in Europe. The technical part that we are discussing at the moment was aimed at - and it is likely to achieve these two objectives - firstly, achieving interoperability and, secondly, increasing the safety of the rail system. The political part, the regulatory part that was already adopted and implemented in Polish legislation, had different functions. It is worth mentioning that we should know and be aware of what kind of document we are adopting. It's not just a technical document. He will introduce not today, not tomorrow, but in the course of 8 and 10 years a real revolution on Polish tracks. Thus, this political part, already implemented in the Polish legal system, was intended to establish rules for the functioning of the rail passenger transport market and for the functioning of infrastructure managers, because in the opinion of the European Commission - and we will meet this situation - the aim will be to create an independent from the government and independent from railway undertakings managing the railway infrastructure, which will separate this infrastructure from the operation of railway services. You might say, Mr. Marshal, that there will be a superstate on the rails in a moment. Supporters of the European Federation may be surprised at how united this part of the European Union's economy, which is rail transport, will be. There will be uniform standards, there will be no borders, there will be a single agency that will supervise all this infrastructure, and it will be the European Union Railway Agency and the Railway Transport Office will be de facto brought into the role of subcontractors. He will of course have additional features and will be equipped with additional tools, but here in our local market. This raises the question: What will be the practical consequences of implementing this IV package for Polish railway companies? How are we gonna handle this? Therefore, Mr. Marshal, in order not to extend, I would like to say that although the Left Club obviously supports the government proposals aimed at implementing the 4th railway package and implementing it into Polish legislation, we will - and I am announcing this from this point on - ask the Supreme Audit Chamber to check how Poland and Polish entrepreneurs and the railway sector are prepared for this type of liberalisation. We would not want to lead to a situation where, with the harmonisation of all technical rules, the introduction of the key role of the European Union Railway Agency and the de facto opening of the Polish market railway operators, railway operators from our point of view, such as Regional Transports or individual self-government companies, will either be swallowed up or pushed out of the market by those who will come to Poland on rails, because in a moment we will have this market much more accessible to operators from other countries, but from the European Union. So, in conclusion, Mr Marshal, I am saying that we will vote in favour of this submission, but at the same time I inform you that we will request a report and information on how Poland is prepared to implement the 4th railway package. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u408	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Stefan Krajewski, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u409	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives regarding the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the law on rail transport, prints no. 933 and 949. The draft law provides for amendments to the current provisions of the Law of 28 March 2003 on rail transport, Dz. Member of the Commission 1043, late. zm., hereinafter referred to as the Rail Transport Act, and the addition of new rules. As the previous speakers have said, the proposed law is intended to lead to the partial implementation of the European Parliament and Council Directive on the interoperability of the rail system in the European Union. It is also about strengthening rail safety and a number of solutions that have already been examined. The interesting thing that has not been said much is that the European Union Railway Agency will act as a so-called. one-stop shop, a one-stop shop, which will enable the applicant to submit applications remotely via the IT platform, e.g. to place the railway vehicle on the market, issue a single safety certificate and send documents. The role of the President of the Railway Transport Office is changing significantly, but this has already been mentioned. As regards the safety documents of the rail system, in place of two existing certificates in two parts: A and B will be introduced a single safety certificate issued by the European Union Railway Agency or the President of the Railway Transport Office. The requirements for the safety management system set up by railway undertakings or infrastructure managers have been amended. It is pleased that carriers will have an obligation to provide assistance to the families of the victims, that a path will be indicated. Carriers are supposed to support these victims. Hopefully there's as little of them as possible. These are the necessary solutions. The railway carrier is also expected to provide psychological support to victims or families of those who may have died in accidents. These are very necessary solutions. Hopefully they'll be implemented as soon as possible. I think it would be a wish for all of us that this interoperability should also be better implemented, including in Poland, so that there are no differences between companies, regions. It's all important. Given the time, that's where I end my speech. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u410	It's a nice performance. Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Michał Urbaniak, the Wheel of the Polish Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u411	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! We are again discussing today the implementation of EU law into the Polish legal system. From the same speaker I have already talked about the harmfulness of excessive bureaucracy, about legislative diarrhea, about the dangers of overregulation or surveillance of Poles. This time, the government's draft law on amending the Rail Transport Act is the implementation of the 4th railway package: long, boring, but with very concrete consequences. Overall, the pursuit of interoperability of national rail systems is a good direction, its implementation will significantly reduce overall costs. It also makes sense from an environmental point of view. However, the harmonisation of the rail market poses a threat to an economy such as ours, which is highly dependent on foreign capital. The harmonisation of certain technical standards or safety issues is a very positive aspect of the 4th railway package. However, the challenge for Poland will be to maintain such internal conditions, so that Polish carriers, both state and private, are able to maintain as much competitiveness as possible in the market and we will talk about the common European market. Otherwise, if we don't, instead of driving PKP Intercity or Polregio, we'll drive. I'm sure Deutsche Bahn wouldn't want that. On this subject we should also pay attention to the strategic location of Poland in the system of global supply chains. Well, especially in the context of setting up a new silk trail, e.g. Russian railways want to increase freight transport from China to ports or in Kaliningrad or St. Petersburg with the exception of Poland, so as to deliver goods to the West, e.g. to the Germans mentioned earlier. The problem is that such behaviour of Russia and Germany, i.e. building As someone in the media has already said, Nord Stream 2 is not only geopolitical - it needs to be made clear - but also purely economic. Perhaps when creating the right infrastructure and tax conditions we would be able to overcome these Russian-German tendencies to exclude Poland from the transport network between Europe and China. There are, of course, some issues worth improving. It is very exciting that terminals are being expanded in Malaszewicz or in Hrubieszów, as well as electrified and even extended to Gliwice is a wide-range steelworks line. That's good, very good, it's necessary. However, it is also necessary to increase the commercial speed for freight warehouses that drive around Poland, because this speed is a problem for suppliers. I think that infrastructure modernisation will not be effective if several lines are modernised at once, if more work is started instead of completing one. It is also important to verify the amount of customs duties or VAT on goods, e.g. imported from China. Of course, a much more advantageous model is the domestic production - this is obvious - as well as the export of this domestic production. But in today's globalized world, after years of being stuck in the wrong assumption that it is worth moving all production to the Far East, we are not able to do without goods from the middle country. It will take us years and a lot of effort to change this situation, but we should, of course, strive to do so. Today, for example. Germany reduces VAT to 16% and Poland still has a 23% rate. This certainly does not encourage Poland to be the first Community country to enter and pay VAT and duty. Maybe it's worth thinking about it, maybe it's worth changing it to increase the attractiveness of Poland as the first country for deliveries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u412	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. There'll be five of them. First. I would like to ask you, Mr Mirosław Suchon, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. I'm setting the time to ask the question as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u413	Of course. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! According to the availability of only one question, which concerns the costs of conducting the examinations, as this is the case. It's not in this bill, but it's said that the UTK is going to create a new center for the examination of train drivers. I wanted to ask you, by the way: Does this mean that the costs of conducting these tests increase? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u414	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Łącki, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u415	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, I would like to say that I am very much in favour of the government when it comes to the renovation of railway roads and the fact that all this is going to work at last. But unfortunately, it's getting a little snaily, which is why I have some questions that I'd like to get written answers to. The first was whether there was such a programme to improve safety at rail crossings and crossings. I would like to know how much money was spent on this project and how this money was spent on regions in Poland. On the occasion of this project, I would like to know whether this project was covered by two viaducts in the city of Szczecin, i.e. viaduct at ul. Jagiellonian and viaduct on the street. Pomorskie. These are two railroad crossings that actually divide Szczecin in half and sometimes stand there after an hour to drive through. That's the first question. The second question concerns the railway road Szczecin - Poznań (The Bell) and these famous peripetia at the Cross. When can we expect the renovation of this section to be over? I would just like to get a written answer to the question: When will the whole episode of Szczecin - Poznań be completed and passed and in what parameters? The last question concerns local roads. The first is road 402 Goleniów - Kolobrzeg. This is a road that could possibly be a bypass for the railway road Szczecin - Gdansk. Is she in your plans to upgrade? There's only one track, and on the Goleni episode... Mr President, you have already said two minutes. I'm almost done. The point is, part of the episode is unelectrified. I wanted to know if you were doing anything about it. And for the future, there's a 407 road. Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, last sentence. There is such a railway road 407, that is the road of High Kamieńska - Trzebiatów. At this moment it is only the High Stone - the Pomeranian Stone, and from the Pomeranian Stone to Trzebiatowa our friends from the East in 1946 undressed it... Mr President, we respect our friends from the East. One last question. In the future... Mr. President, 1.5 minutes, you've gone too far. ...you can type it in... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...in any construction plans, this railroad route? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u416	Thank you very much. I'm asking you nice and politely to try to keep your time. You've been out of time for one and a half minutes, do you hear me? Yes, Mr. Marshal, I'm listening. I'm sorry. Okay, I'll tell you, by the way. Mrs Anita Sowińska. Come on in. I'm sorry again. And rightfully, thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u417	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I am very pleased with this direction, because the rules are so amended as to facilitate the development of the rail network, especially the European high-speed rail. And I say, "I'm checking, 'cause it requires strategic decisions." However, I wanted to ask: will you then withdraw from the wrong decision regarding the construction of the CPK port, which is a complementary route for European transport? It is non-economic, it is environmentally harmful, it is also harmful to society, i.e. may not be harmful, but it brings less benefits compared to the railroad. She's crazy. A wise man is recognized by being able to withdraw from wrong decisions. I count on it and ask: What are your strategic decisions? [[♪ The bell ♪]] If you say "A," would you say "B" and "Z"? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u418	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Anna Paluch, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u419	Thank you very much. High Izbo! I have the following question for the Minister. Printing Act 933, which we are discussing, implements two directives of the European Union: 2016/797 and 2016/798, i.e. those aimed at improving safety and interoperability in the functioning of rail transport. And these announcements, which we read in the explanatory memorandum, i.e. that the capacity of railway lines will increase, punctuality of transport, safety, including all these new functions of the Railway Transport Authority, the status of the European agency - these are promising things. But has the Ministry analysed whether the procedures implemented as a result of the implementation of the 4th railway package will help Polish service providers and railway infrastructure manufacturers compete on the European Union market? Are you also analyzing any threats that might be coming from here? After all, others will also be in line with these requirements and will also be more competitive. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u420	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Caesar Grabarczyk, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u421	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We talked a little bit about this at the committee meeting, and today during the debate Mr Kwiatkowski raised this issue. How can Polish companies benefit from the 4th railway package? How do we do that so we can start conquering external markets as well? In a few years we will be able to use our best EIC Premium rolling stock, Pendolino, for such expansion. Is that what the ministry thinks about? Is Intercity thinking about how to increase this premium rolling stock so that Poland can become stronger in Europe? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u422	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Minister Andrzej Bittel, please. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u423	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for the interesting discussion, calm and substantive, which allows you to think with optimism about the adoption of this important and necessary law, because the implementation of EU law, the technical part of the 4th railway package, is the last element of the implementation of the 4th railway package, which is worth highlighting. The market part, a small IV technical package for notified and certified bodies, has already been implemented, and now this large implementation will allow this process to be closed, which is very important from the point of view of all the elements that you have been talking about. At the request of the Marshal, I will no longer repeat why this is so important, but allow me to refer to a few of the issues that have come up during this extremely interesting debate, because I would like us to understand exactly what the difference is. If someone would apply to the Supreme Audit Chamber for a report on the preparation of Polish carriers for the 4th railway package and for its regulation, I would draw attention to the transitional periods related to open access and rules, perhaps there will be no need to write a request for a report on this matter for the time being. That's the first thing. And I address this to those Members who spoke about passenger carriers, because de facto the IV railway package in the technical part is more aimed at freight and manufacturers than at passenger carriers. That's a general remark. I'd like to say I haven't heard of the idea of electrifying the LHS. I heard about the economic analysis. In my opinion, this electrification will not be implemented and the LHS line will not be extended to Gliwice, because we would lose the exception. And if we lost the exception, LHS would lose its unique character and status, which is also due to European law. The Member asked about the costs related to examination, licence and certificate. That's not the bill... I know. ...but I'm ready to answer. License - 100, certificate - 600, including simulator - 200, online driving - 300, written - 100, oral - 100. I hope I wasn't wrong. Mr Łącki asked about the question on which he will receive a written reply. I'd be happy to answer very carefully. Thank you very much. The last three questions of your fellow Members can be said to be connected, because it is precisely the initiative on the Central Communication Port and the technical part of the 4th railway package, and these actions are linked to these two projects, which are very different, but have a common denominator, because they are all intended to help us compete well on the European market. If we look through the perspective of the problems of one of the Polish producers in the neighbouring market in relation to the certification of rolling stock according to the conditions of this neighbour, we will answer to the question why it will be easier for us to produce so that we can enter the western markets, because we have something to boast about, we have good rolling stock companies, we have good railway infrastructure companies, we have good contractors and we should be happy about that, because this is how we can carry out the national railway programme and rolling stock strategies, and the maintenance programme, and the rail rail system+ programme, and all the other railway programmes that are well known to you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u424	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the governmental draft law amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments and some other laws (prints Nos 939 and 959). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u425	Thank you very much. High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, I present a report on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments and certain other laws. This draft is included in print No 939 and the committee's report is contained in print No 959. High Izbo! This draft law is the implementation of the obligation resulting from the incorrect transposition by the European Commission of Directive 2011/92/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment, i.e. so-called. Directive EIA, more specifically, Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 3 of that Directive. Reasoned opinion of the European Commission of 7 March 2019 pursuant to Article. 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union requires urgent action to address these shortcomings. The European Commission points out that the rules governing the adoption of decisions for projects covered by the EIA Directive, i.e. projects likely to have a significant impact on the environment, in some cases prevent recourse to a court for interim measures so that implementation of the project can be suspended and the resulting environmental damage prevented until it is determined whether those decisions have been adopted in accordance with the EIA Directive. These include, in accordance with the opinion of the European Commission, water law permits, geological and mining concessions, building permits and decisions issued on the basis of the so-called. specialty, which in Polish there are almost dozens. High Izbo! According to Polish law, the issue of permits for investments that are projects that can significantly affect the environment is basically two-stage. The first stage is the definition by administrative decision of the environmental conditions for the implementation of the project, and the second stage is the adoption of a decision granting the right to implement it. The introduction of general standards to the Environmental Impact Assessment Act for the correct transposition of the EIA Directive, with respect to the principles and procedures not related to this Directive, as set out in the Investment Process Act, with reference to these general standards, is the best and most effective solution to ensure consistency of national legislation. High Izbo! The draft law in question in the article. 1 amends the Act of 3 October 2008 on Environmental Impact Assessments, which are in Article. 72. 6 and 6a, i.e. the obligation to issue the decision of the public information body to publish decisions on environmental conditions relating to projects that may significantly affect the environment and the rules for making documents available. In turn, in the article. Article 85 (1) (b) and (c) of 3 there is an obligation to inform you of the possibility of reading the content of the decision, the case file, the arrangements and the opinions of the competent authorities. Added article. 86e-86h introduce the possibility, first, to suspend the immediate implementation of decisions on environmental conditions, second, to complain about decisions on environmental conditions under Article. 61 § 3 Laws on proceedings before administrative courts, as well as the possibility of appeal by an organic organisation fulfilling certain requirements from an investment permit preceded by a decision on environmental conditions. These are the most important changes made to the Environmental Impact Assessment Act of 3 October 2008. Art. The projects in question include amendments to the various laws, starting with the Law of 26 March 1982 on the integration and exchange of land in Article. 2, by the Law on Forests in Article. 3, Construction law in Article. 4, Atomic Law in Art. 5, Aviation law etc., I have very little time, so I will not calculate it, ending with the Act of 17 December 2020 on the promotion of electricity generation in offshore wind farms in Article. 25. Further articles, Art. 26, Art. 27 and Article 27 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 28, [[♪ The bell ♪]] High Izbo! The Environment Commission carried out its first reading of the print project No 939 on 23 February. Following the rejection of the two requests, the public hearing and the establishment of the subcommittee, the committee began to examine the project in detail, resulting in the report submitted. The report as a whole was adopted by 21 votes in favour, 11 against and 2 abstentions. High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, please adopt the draft law in print No 959. Thank you very much. I apologize for the extension, but the project was very much discussed and I wanted to explain everything. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u426	Thank you, madam. Sometimes it happens, it's just that Mrs. Gosievska will be on the agenda today until noon. 3 a.m., not until 3 p.m. 2. No problem. Ladies and gentlemen, the Sejm has agreed to hear 5 minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion on this item. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mr John Duda, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u427	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I was honoured to present the position of the Law and Justice Club regarding the government draft law amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments and some other laws submitted by the government in print No. 939. High Izbo! The project presented by the government aims to introduce into the Polish legal order the provisions of the EIA Directive, which regulates the issuing of decisions that may have a significant negative impact on the environment. The European Commission points out that the arrangements currently in force in Polish law restrict judicial review of decisions made by the lack of possibility for courts to apply provisional measures at the stage of issuing environmental decisions, to issue investment decisions until the court has given a final decision. The matter we've come to face isn't easy. On the one hand, it is the protection of our environment, and on the other hand the economic development of the country, the speed of the investments carried out and their possible retention by judicial safeguards. In the draft submitted, the government tries to reconcile these areas, it would seem to be conflicting, introducing the solutions required by the EIA Directive and adapting the Polish law to the requirements of the European Union. Law and Justice, with great care and respect, addresses nature and environment problems, pursues a sustainable environmental direction for the development of the country, and therefore supports the work on the solutions put forward by the government in the draft accompanying the report of the Environment Committee, print No 959. At this legislative stage, the Law and Justice Club presents three amendments, and I will not discuss them out of respect for our time. These are based on the comments of the Legislative Office at first reading. At third reading, the Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of the draft law presented by the government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u428	Thank you, thank you kindly, sir. I invite Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u429	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to remind you that today we are looking at an extremely important law, a law that concerns not only the environment, but above all civil rights, citizens' rights to the clean environment and to ensure a healthy life in this environment. I would remind you that the regulations, these statutory regulations, introduced the Sejm at the initiative of the government of PO-PSL after the first government of PiS started a great war with the European Commission for Rospuda before 2008. This law regulates citizens' rights to live in a clean environment and assess the impact of any investment on life and human health. Meanwhile, it is gradually amended and these rights are limited. Therefore, the European Commission has accused Poland of restricting the access of the Polish public to justice in this area. It's worth trying for a calendar here. Well, two years ago, in March 2019, the European Commission asked for improvements to these rules. The government has been investigating or not with these allegations for two years. And the last piece, the last version, didn't really consult anyone. The latter version was born without consultation on February 16th, which means after 2 years that the Sejm would accept it in 3 days. A proposal has been sent to us. In general, the project was brought to the Sejm on Friday evening, and the committee was sitting at first reading on Tuesday evening. The Commission rejected all proposals for a public hearing, namely to consult NGOs, with the public of the Public Participation Act. We're gonna have a curiosity situation. She also rejected the proposal to appoint a subcommittee. This is the bill. It's a good habit to deal with laws of this kind that are quite legally complicated, to proceed in the subcommittee. Tomorrow's the vote. I'm asking what happened. The government had something for two years, and suddenly, in three days, something will be born. What are you trying to cover up or what are you trying to hide? Who are you kidding? Poles? The European Commission? Or both? Because these proposals are pretend proposals. They're supposed to be sobering their eyes. This is not about improving these rules and restoring the right of Poles to participate in environmental matters. Lack of effective access to justice results not only in the destruction of nature but also in the risk of losing European resources, and not only in environmental projects, including the lack of the rule of law. After all, Prime Minister Morawiecki agreed to this conclusion of the summit. We'll make adjustments. These amendments were prepared by NGOs and experts who followed these work. We've taken them on behalf of the opposition and we'll report them. We're not leaving the environment without help. We will continue this work also in the Senate. We will not allow Poles and Poles to take away the right to a clean environment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u430	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Ursula Zielińska, the Greens. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u431	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! I am not speaking to the government today, because at yesterday's committee meeting, the government unfortunately proved that it does not want to listen to the arguments of the messengers or the social side, and the Act on the provision of information and public participation in environmental protection is rather a law for him to block information and cut society off from the environment. This government is acting like a rich man in a limousine today, who for dinner rides on the signal of the hallway of life, literally and figuratively, impunity, arrogant, deaf to your needs. So I am talking to you, ladies and gentlemen, neighbors from Warsaw's Merry, whose rich man in the limo wants to build a highway through the middle of the district, inhabitants of Mazur, who want to release a heavy transit through Lake Tałta, inhabitants of Podlasie, whose other ministers in the limousine devastated the forest, and now want to harden the swamp of the Biebrza National Park by transit highway. This bill allows for all this damage and misery. It's because of her state records that you don't sleep at night because you're suffocating in smog, you're suffering from heart disease and cancer, but this nightmare won't last forever. One of the first things that we, as Greens, will change in the Ministry of Environment and Climate, will be to change this law to one that will enable the real participation of the public in the decision-making process (the bell), which will create an investment in your immediate environment. We will prepare a real law on the provision of information and public participation in environmental protection. Today we have prepared amendments in cooperation with the social side, in cooperation with the Left Club, to which we invite other clubs to submit and support. We're putting them in the hands of your marshal. Please support these amendments. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u432	Thank you very much. Mrs Anita Sowińska, parliamentary club of the Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u433	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left on the governmental bill on the provision of environmental information and protection, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments. This law is very important for every citizen and every citizen. There are two main reasons. The first reason is our influence or lack of influence on investment decisions. At present, citizens and citizens are defenceless against the state because they do not have the real opportunity to challenge decisions to build burdensome investments, e.g. because of the stench, noise or environmental devastation. We are deprived of legal tools. An official and an investor can do anything, and a citizen can hardly do anything. Nobody talks to us, and they don't care what we think. The second reason is to spend public money. We want our money, including money from the European Union, to be spent on those investments that serve us, society and the environment. We do not want further damage to the environment, because it threatens our existence and undermines our quality of life. The aim of this law was to bring Polish law into line with EU law as regards the environmental impact of society. The European Commission had many reservations, which it put forward in its reasoned opinion of March 2019, and if Poland had not taken corrective action, the case would have gone to the EUSF. So many assumptions. What's the reality? On purpose or not, the provisions of this law are so designed that at first glance everything looks good, but as you look at them closely, it turns out that they are dead. You're still just cheating on us. Still, someone can decide to build a henhouse within 100 metres of your house, a road through the middle of a national park or a nuclear power plant near your house, and your protests will do nothing. An example of the wrong construction of the law are terms. In theory, the citizen may appeal against the decision, but practically the deadlines are so designed that they overlap and the official may deprive any appeal. There are more flowers in this bill. These and other errors are corrected in our amendments that we will make today. I would like to stress that we have prepared them together with the social side, in particular with the Studio for All Beings - I am deeply grateful to the experts and experts from this organization - but also with the opposition political parties, especially the Greens and the POs. It shows that we can work together, that the environment is our common good. Our amendments are so important that without them this law will be fiction, it will be a fig leaf for the European Commission. Finally, I will talk about the legislative process... Sorry, I'm almost done. One thing is certain: this law does not correctly transpose the EIA Directive into national legislation, and I therefore ask the High House to support our amendments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u434	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u435	I'm the one who's gonna keep going. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! Łagiewnick's route in Kraków, construction of a new runway at Balice airport, plan to build a waste storage facility in Niepołomice, so-called South bypass in Rzeszów, construction of the four-band S16 by the Biebrzański National Park, industrial farm in Kruszyniana, in the Natura 2000 area. What's the connection? The fact that they directly concern the well-being, life, health and safety of citizens and citizens of this country. Nevertheless, they have no impact on these investments, although they will change their lives. I mentioned a few things like that. All you have to do is open the paper to find out about them. The law should safeguard the interests of residents and residents. They can't be patents, and their voice has to matter and it has to be heard. The bill we're talking about should be such a tool, it should strengthen the social side. But it's not. Let us remind you that in a fight with a developer who owns an army of lawyers, citizens have only themselves. In the fight against an investor, they have only the opportunity to protest because often the courts do not even consider them a party to the proceedings. That's what we should change. But this bill doesn't do that at all. Just look at the wording of the provisions on the publication of documentation in the BIP. After 14 days, they can just disappear. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It seems to me that until the bill is designed to give real tools in such proceedings, it is not really possible for people who really have opinions... Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u436	Thank you very much, madam. I would like to ask Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u437	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, This law is such a little upgrade of the implementation of the directive. We have not been able to do everything properly in the framework of the implementation of this directive of 13 December 2011, and we have therefore received an admonition from the European Commission to do so. This project is supposed to answer that question. It's been a while since then. The Commission concluded that Poland's implementation of the Directive in the case of projects which have a significant impact on the environment precludes, in certain cases, the possibility of asking the court for interim measures to suspend the execution of the investment until a decision on whether the administrative decision is compatible with the rules. This is the standard at the moment, this is what it should look like, although some people believe that it is also an obstacle to an investor's life. That's the way it is. This is particularly the case for social acceptance, but also the environmental consequences of decisions on Water Law, Mining and Geological Law or investment carried out on the basis of specifications. Specs on the one hand are designed to facilitate investment, but on the other hand they are unfortunately significantly interfering with the environment, e.g. in the case of a linear investment, they also interfere with our property rights. The Commission has shown that Poland has also infringed Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Directive by restricting judicial review by introducing special laws, inter alia. rigour of immediate feasibility. It has also shown that our implementation of the Directive does not ensure the rights of non-governmental organisations which are entitled to submit these proposals on environmental issues, in particular where water law permits are concerned, geological concessions. And that violates art. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 3 of that Directive. I would also like to say that in the Polish legal order already the constitution in the article. 74. 3 states that everyone has the right to environmental information. Of course, this law is implemented by laws which are adopted by the Polish Parliament. And here I have to share, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, with such reflection that perhaps it was unnecessary for this mode of passing the bill to be so hasty. It's been said. Well, it would have hurt if this bill had been passed on, for example. to the subcommittee and as part of the subcommittee, devote a point after point to this 2, 3, maybe four hours and work it out? And so this procedure for the adoption of the law begins immediately here in the High House to raise such questions: What do we want or what does the government want to hide by such a hasty mode of adoption by the parliamentary majority of this law? It has also been stated that there is no need for a call, a public hearing, and it seems to me that sometimes this public hearing also dispels many doubts, or at least removes the suspicion that it is the legislator who wants to meet some particular expectations, perhaps some lobbies. After all, we do not need it, nor does the government need it, nor does the High House need it. My parliamentary experience says that it will later be very revengeful, because mutual distrust does not push things forward. I therefore say that it seems, of course, that this law in this form will be passed, although some amendments may be accepted, or maybe not, although there are many complex ones. On the other hand, we have the Senate, which will undoubtedly use this situation - I think I have not spoken to the Senate - my time to work on this bill will probably be a public hearing. What we could do here in the High House, in the Seym, is probably done by the Senate. And the effect will be similar, only that we could do it in this High House. I always urge you to use all the mechanisms that can lead to a compromise. After all, I do not suspect here that anyone has the wrong will to have the right to public information concerning the environment or the impact of certain investments on this environment, by anyone, so to speak, somehow put under the carpet or otherwise decided than the public interest indicates. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u438	Thank you. Mr Michał Urbaniak, Circle of the Polish Confederation. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u439	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! As PiS investigated five against farmers and did not keep time standards or lack of consultation, the Civic Coalition or the Left did not bother them anymore. The bill, which we are talking about now, basically has one purpose: to adapt Polish law according to the European Commission after incorrect implementation. It will increase the powers of parties to conduct and environmental organisations in the investment process, provide access, theoretically for the community concerned, to justice in environmental matters. Objective: to ensure access to environmental organisations, to extend powers, to enable environmental organisations and parties to apply for the suspension of the immediate feasibility of environmental decisions, together with the possibility to lodge a complaint at the stage of proceedings, to allow parties to proceedings and organisations to request the suspension of immediate feasibility, to ensure that the parties to proceedings for the issue of environmental decisions and environmental organisations have the right to appeal against investment decisions, including complaints to voivodship administrative courts. The proposed solutions will apply regardless of the provisions of the various laws and regulations - and that is, in my opinion, absurd. Do you have any idea what that could do? There will be such Greenpeace or the VIVA Foundation, or some other left-wing radicals, not real environmentalists and will announce that in the area where it is to be built, for example. nuclear power plant or some strategic investment from the point of view of state security, for example, lives. a specific species of insect or plant, and will legally block the construction on an indefinite basis. It is too much authority for organizations that can be - it must be made clear to themselves - a lobbying tool, also other countries that do not need to have an interest in the development of Poland, just as Poles would like it to be. Poland can be vulnerable to the influence and pressures of foreign economic agents - this needs to be made clear. The environmental decisions of the Polish institutions should be sufficient in this area. We should not allow Poland's interests to be sensitive to external influence. This could happen to gas installations, e.g. In Świnoujście, there could be a excavation of the Vistula mine, there could be other strategic transmission networks. We should not give the security of Poland in the name of some left-wing clichés - let us be clear. Ecology is very important and I fully agree with this, but let us take care of our natural environment while not embarrassing the authority of Polish institutions, and let us not waver the security of Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u440	Thank you very much. Mr Stanisław Żuk, Circle of Poselskie Kukiz.15 - Direct Democracy.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u441	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In principle, obligations under the EIA Directive are carried out at the stage of the environmental decision. Given that it concludes the proceedings in which issues such as the appropriateness of carrying out an environmental impact assessment or establishing the scope of the environmental impact report are resolved, the evaluation is an extremely large undertaking, depending on what undertaking we want to implement, we are talking about. It is also about examining the comments and requests made by society, including environmental organisations, and identifying the environmental conditions for the implementation of the project. This is the final environmental decision. Such a decision shall be binding on the authorities issuing investment decisions at a later stage. I have my doubts, and I'm addressing the designers. Is Art. 86g, which assumes that in addition to the involvement of environmental organisations in the process of environmental decision-making... Aren't we taking a step forward? It is fashionable in Poland that we go further than expected. We grant organisations the right to appeal to the investment decision. The question about which investments we are talking about, whether we are talking about investments with a national dimension related to the security of Poland, which concern e.g. energy, whether we're talking proverbial, I don't know, garbage or something. In any case, I believe that allowing environmental organisations to a large extent, which, let's just say, most often have no environmental objectives at all, except that they have this in their statutes... I took care of it professionally. I've been conducting some environmental proceedings, and believe me, the entrepreneur is an intruder today, that's an enemy whose logs are being thrown at his feet all the time and who goes through the so-called. The road through torment. Today you can appeal to the provincial administrative court, then you can appeal to the Supreme Court. There are such organizations in Poland, believe me, because I know them, e.g. Frank Bold. It's a beautiful name, an English name. It is a Czech organization based in Krakow - with Czech capital, with Czech management and with Czech supervisory board. What's her job? Block all mining and energy investments in Poland. And they do. Another organization is the Society for Earth from Oświęcim. A curiosity organization works in my region. I'm just ashamed of her. It is about the EKO-UNIA from Wrocław, which does lectures in the Czech Republic, teaches the Czech Republic how they can harm the Polish mine, which has been operating in the Polish economy, Polish energy for 74 years. Earlier, before the war, she worked in Germany for 40 years. She's got 20 years of work left, but what? There are Members who have signed a petition for the closure of this mine, because it harms the Czech Republic. Please, she's okay. I know what I'm doing. It's imaginary nonsense. It just shouldn't have happened. And I'm surprised at that. I do not believe that some Czech or German parliamentarian would ask for the closure of his mine under the influence of e.g. Poles' expectations. And there's a mine near Gubin, there's a German mine, a German power plant. Managing capital is Czech capital to make it more interesting. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the maximum implementation for me. There's nothing more to add so that we don't fall into some sort of possession of the green order. The effect will be that sustainable development will no longer be right. We need to answer the question of what's more important. We must carry out the tasks of progress in civilization, build projects. A proverbial bird or a worm... If any of you could at least see the environmental report for the big project. These are tons of descriptions about all this. Believe me, it's done professionally. Entrepreneurs have another problem. There are no companies in Poland that are able to prepare such reports. We have to look at life rationally. The progress of civilization, unfortunately, costs a little. Let us not be crazy about the completely unjustified actions of pseudoecologists - that is what I will call them - in terms of environmental protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u442	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Mucha, Circle of Poselskie Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u443	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First, maybe I'll address my previous speakers. Gentlemen, all those organizations you're talking about are organizations that make sure your grandchildren have a place to live. Don't worry about my grandkids... I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Circle Poland 2050 in relation to the draft law on amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments and some other laws from print no. 939. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, why this bill? It seems to me that the procedure to process it, the procedure to report it, indicates that in a few weeks or months we will find out that some investment was urgent to do and therefore you had to quickly re-schedule something. Either you realized the CPK wasn't gonna build you with the old bill, or some other sand locks wouldn't just build you, because that's not gonna happen. This project is a drama for citizens. Any investment that poisons, pollutes, stinks and smokes - citizens will not have the chance to effectively protest or challenge it. It's gonna be, I don't know, a mink farm, a nuisance incinerator, any other plant. For you, a citizen becomes a burdensome addition to the investments you make to make your ice cream. You haven't read the project. You treat the environment like something that's being exploited, and it's being robbed. We are therefore filing a motion to reject this project, Mr. Marshal. We make this request for two reasons. The first reason is procedural. The Rules of Procedure state that the first reading may take place not earlier than the seventh day following the delivery of the printing to Members unless the Sejm or the committee decides otherwise. This project was therefore notified too late. This is a project that changes 18 laws... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] 23? Maybe even more. You report him so that we can't... You are unable to report it in advance so that all organisations can get acquainted with it, to submit amendments. Secondly, this project has been amended in relation to the one consulted with the organisations, and therefore today it does not meet the requirements of the public consultation. Thirdly, this is the most important charge, this law simply makes it impossible for citizens to enforce their rights, i.e. it becomes an absolute fiction, a trap of the state, just as a trap of the state is everything you do. Because if there's 30 days to file a motion and 30 days to share information, what are we talking about? We're talking about absurdity, we're talking about how it just won't work. You are proposing to collect fees for the information made available. The Authority shall have the possibility to decide not to make such documents available. The refusal may be contested, but it will take even more time, so it will be all the more useless in the context of the time limit for appeal. The issue of location decisions that cannot be challenged is the possibility of participating in this process of environmental organisations. Well, that's just unacceptable. This is a whole project to reject. I know you're in a hurry to show that someone's working, but I have the impression that it's just to show that some investment is for quick implementation, a quick transition, and therefore you're doing everything you can to ensure that there are no barriers here and that the citizens whose investment is going to be concerned have no rights - like the PiS. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u444	Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. I invite Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u445	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! You can destroy even as valuable a subject as the participation of citizens in the process of approving investments interfering with the environment. You may feel that you have properly prepared this project just to avoid financial penalties from the European Commission. You have created solutions that only fake any safeguards for citizens' rights. Citizens still cannot appeal to decisions based on local synecur - regional environmental directorates. Any appeal may be actually only at the request of the neighbours, or the environment in the so-called. You guys aren't gonna protect the honest field at all. Unfortunately, there is much more. On top of that, you organize the first reading of such an important bill the day after the delivery of the draft to Members, who are actually very difficult to read at all. What does this project have to do with environmental protection? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'll give you an answer. Absolutely nothing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u446	Thank you very much. Mrs Anita Sowińska, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u447	Minister! This draft law is theoretically government-owned, i.e. it should be subject to public consultation. Meanwhile, in RCL there was a bill of the same name, but he had 4 pages. This bill, which we received three days ago, has 38 pages plus a justification. This is a completely different project. These are mockery of democracy, these are mockery of citizens, these are mockery of public consultation. My question is this: Why did you not listen to my request for a public hearing so as to involve social organisations in the discussion, in the consultation, and why was this draft law generally not consulted? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u448	Thank you very much. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u449	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! These are a few lines drawn on the map of Poland by Director Wild and as a result of the cosmic disturbance caused by the consultation of the Central Communication Port study, sealed the fate of the evaluation bill. It turned out that our fundamental right to know about construction investments in our neighbourhood and the possibility of saving naturally valuable areas, that is too much obstacle to government plans. This project literally runs around nature and people, their health and tranquility, violates EU directives and the Aarhus Convention. It takes us back civilizedly into the age of concrete and worship like limitless growth. This project is a demonstration of the brutal violence of the state against citizens and I am asking the government what law it is. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u450	Thank you very much. Mrs Urszula Zielińska, Greens.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u451	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In the list of infringement procedures of environmental and climate law of the European Union, Poland is one of the absolute recordmakers. We've worked 254 violations so far. This is more than France, more than Germany, more than Spain, more than Romania, more than Bulgaria, and we are not the biggest investor at all. These violations are a tribute to the very treatment of the law that you demonstrate in this express bill, and that, unfortunately, is the treatment of the citizen. This project does not respond to a number of reservations and problems for citizens, citizens and the European Commission and will lead to further infringements. And here's the question to you: Which fund will we pay for it from? It's not like it's European. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u452	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition. Are you Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski? There isn't. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u453	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Any law that concerns environmental protection is the place and time to ask about those matters that have not been settled over the years. One such case is the post-industrial site after the Zachem plant in Bydgoszcz. This is often referred to as the largest organic bomb in Europe, millions of tons of poison. Environmental inspectors still do not have the technical possibilities to test the highly toxic carcinogenic compounds remaining after Zachem. The state is doing nothing in this case, although the Bydgoszcz socialists have been fighting for this matter and government support for 10 years. I ask you a question and an appeal: Minister, what are you going to do to save Bydgoszcz from cancer, sickness and terrible future, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Who's waiting for this land? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u454	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u455	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, we have no doubt that the environment, nature must be preserved for future generations and that should be our concern. Similarly, our concern should be that the investments that are being implemented can be implemented efficiently, but also with respect for the environment. It would be best, however, if environmental conditions were taken into account at the investment planning stage. Of course, we all have to say this to ourselves today: then such investments can be more expensive, not always, but sometimes. However, this requires a change of approach, a change of thought. Of course, it is not an approach to branding consultations, it is the worst approach possible, and this law will unfortunately make it possible. Therefore, I have a question: was there a discussion among the members of the government on the value of the environment (the bell), respect for the environment during the investment process and the change of thinking precisely which environment and needs are taken into account? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u456	Thank you very much. Mrs Margaret Tracz, Greens.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u457	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are witnessing another arrogant attempt to change the law that will block civil society's access to justice in environmental matters. Changes are governed by one of the most important constitutional rights - the right to live in a clean environment. You do this because you do not want to deal with the voice of Poles and Poles, you do not want to deal with the voice of civil society, ba, even the international community. You do it in an arrogant and non-transparient manner, just as you gave the extension of the coal mining license in the Turów mine. For this concession, the European Commission has brought further proceedings against Poland. For this concession, the Czech Republic will sue us to the Court of Justice of the European Union. The Czechs will win this case because they're right. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Turów mine takes away their water, and the Polish government, despite the European Green Deal, still wants to extract coal. When will the Polish government take the voice of society seriously on environmental issues? When will he start respecting international agreements, international arrangements? When will he begin to respect the constitutional rights of Poles and Poles to a clean environment? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u458	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u459	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As I heard, the purpose of the bill is to participate, to ensure that citizens participate in approving investments. It sounds awfully cynical if we look at the course of the southern ring road of Warsaw through one of the districts of Warsaw, through Wawer, where the whole community, the local community and the inhabitants protested, indicating that this course can be conducted where it will not only poison this district, but also the whole Warsaw. So? And no one listens or listens to it. Will this bill change this reality? No Wawr resident believes that, and neither do we when we read the laws and regulations of this law. It is a pity that this is only an implementation without what we need most, without providing real consultations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u460	Thank you. Mrs Beata Maciejewska, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u461	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As mentioned by colleagues from the benches of the parliamentary opposition, in fact this law, this amendment shows the arrogance of power. It is one example of this arrogance, one example of how governments today treat citizens. I'd like to ask you about the rules on access to documentation. Today it is to be changed in such a way that this documentation is to be available in the BIP and the documents are to be made available for 14 days. What's that supposed to do? Then they can disappear. What's that supposed to do? This is supposed to be for consultation, it's for people to appeal, is it supposed to be for you, as you do, to mark certain activities, facade action? I ask you to answer that question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u462	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I would like to ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment, Minister Małgorzata Golińska, to answer questions and comments.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u463	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for this discussion. The law - as the rapporteur said, which discussed in very detail the assumptions of the changes and regulations introduced by us in the law, for which I thank you very much, because this shortens the time of my speech, I can only concentrate on this discussion and on possible questions - is based on the answer to the reasoned opinion of the European Commission towards Poland. But it is worth recalling that a reasoned opinion that did not appear yesterday, the day before yesterday, or a year or two ago. The Commission's comments were not born now, only the European Commission had reservations about Poland for the first time in 2011. I do not want to say who was in charge at the time, because this is not the case, but when I listen today to the comments of the representatives of the Civic Platform or the Civic Coalition, that the changes are insufficient, that they are bad, that they are hitting civil society, I ask why you did not make these changes when you were in charge, and when the Commission first signaled to you that the EIA directive was wrongly implemented. I have the impression that when you rule, when it's convenient, you don't accept the Commission's arguments, but when you're in opposition, you can yell about taking citizens' rights just when we give these changes to non-governmental organisations and citizens. And the whole discussion that went on today, I don't know if it's due to the misunderstanding of this project, which is possible, because the project is difficult, and the whole matter we're discussing is complicated... Then why are you sending him two days... Madame, I did not discuss with you when you spoke. Leave me my time, too. As the Commission has pointed out to us where we are not in line with the EIA Directive, we have discussed it. Some of the complaints from the Commission during this discussion have been taken into account by us and are in these regulations, some of our arguments have been accepted by the European Commission. We have therefore come to the joint project that is being presented to you today in an ongoing discussion with the European Commission. In our view, it is neither excessive in relation to the EIA Directive nor it is one that does not implement the provisions of this Directive. I would like to remind you that neither the directive nor the axial law we are discussing today are to block the investment development of each country. They are designed to respect both citizens' rights and the environment, but at the same time to enable investment. Also today, during the discussion we had, it is clear that some of your fellow Members believe that these regulations could go much further. and give far greater powers to non-governmental organisations or individual citizens, but there were also voices, and they also appeared at the stage of public consultation that these powers are too big because they can lead to delaying or even blocking investment. I think that this discussion in the course of the public consultation, and this discussion that took place today, show that this regulation is a kind of way of going through a measure that leads to the European Commission's main demands, but also to the fulfilment of a number of comments that emerged during the public consultation. Because it is not true what was alleged here by some of the Members who appeared on the speakers that there was no public consultation. The public consultation was carried out. A lot of organizations have been paying attention. In the case of one of the organizations mentioned here, the Association of Laboratory for All Beings, half of the comments were taken into account. It is also worth pointing out that inter-ministerial consultations involved several resorts and there were also concerns, especially in the Ministry of Infrastructure, which is responsible for investments in our country, that the regulations we propose are too far-reaching. It is also worth pointing out, because there was a charge here that the standards (the bell) had not been kept in terms of regulations, as regards the work and the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, that the committee agreed yesterday to shorten the deadline. I'm sorry. As I am running out of time, if there are any specific questions that I have not answered, I will give them in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u464	Thank you, Minister. I would ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Anna Paluch, the Member of the Commission, to apologise, Anna Paluch.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u465	Thank you very much. High Izbo! I would like to start with one statement: the rules which constitute a public authority must balance the rights and obligations of the parties so that each party can pursue its interests. And, ladies and gentlemen, hear the voice of entrepreneurs who complain about how high the cost of applying the law in Poland is. This is the first case. It is the duty of a reasonable and responsible legislator to balance the rights and obligations of each party who has the right to pursue its interests, neither in one way nor in the other. There was a stream of large crocodile tears over alleged disregard for the rights of citizens and environmental organisations to court. It just proves that you haven't read the bill. First, Directive 2011/92/EU, not counting the year 2011, when it rained, as the Minister noted, the European Commission's comments - 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015, as the Civic Platform ruled until November 2015. Ask your colleagues at the club why they did not give the right to court to environmental organisations and citizens. Now, I will refer to Mrs Fly's completely bizarre speech, which apparently did not read the project, because the project does not make anything easier for investors and gives social organisations the right to object. I'll read the article here. 86g Act on Impact Assessments: An environmental organisation which invokes its statutory objectives if it carries out statutory environmental or nature conservation activities for a minimum of 12 months prior to the date of initiation of the investment authorisation procedure, even if it has not taken part in proceedings conducted by the body of first instance, or a party to proceedings for the adoption of environmental conditions decisions is entitled to appeal an investment authorisation, preceded by a decision on environmental conditions issued in proceedings requiring public participation. And last note: In appeal proceedings, the environmental organisation participates in the rights of the party. Did you hear that? Well, remember that. And to the ladies who have been complaining here about the alleged multitude of infringement proceedings, I would like to remind you that the government of the Civic Platform left the Government of Law and Justice 21 infringement proceedings. And that's it, I'm not gonna prolong the performance anymore. Thank you for all the votes of reason. I am convinced that, after these regulations have been adopted, ordinary Kowalski seeking his interests, seeking to avoid being put against the wall on environmental issues, will have the right tools for doing so and that the rules are balanced and written properly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u466	The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the celebration of the 50th anniversary of the winning strike of Łódź fibrous machines (prints No. 906 and 940). I ask Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska to submit a report to the committee. Before I give my vote to you, I would like to say that I have a great request for you. We're delayed at 1 hour right now. 20 minutes. The meetings are normally scheduled to take place up to an hour. 1, so for the moment, it looks like we're gonna end up somewhere around the hour. 3. On behalf of those who will be sitting here at an hour. 1 and at 3 p.m. 2, please: let us simply try to be understanding in this matter and speak as briefly as possible. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u467	Thank you very much, Marshal. I'll try to talk as short as I can, but I'll admit that I'd prefer this topic to be heard here, and not to be given too little time. With a sense of great satisfaction I present to the High Sejm a draft resolution on the celebration of the 50th anniversary of the winning strike of Łódź fibrous machines. It is a resolution which is a tribute to several hundred thousand women: tortured, sick, maltretred, in the heart of the daily horrible, scary work, women who, 50 years ago, in the course of 6 days threatened, opposed the communist power of the Polish People's Republic and won this strike. 50 years ago it was a winning strike and it was won by Łódź fibroids. The strike went off on February 10, 1971. The memory of terror and fear after the December massacre on the coast was very fresh, but the power after December did not learn anything. She thought once she pacified, killed, it would be quiet. The increase in food prices, because that is why the whole battle began, remained, and the lowest salaries were not raised, and all the promises of the newly elected First Secretary of the PZPR Edward Gierek turned out to be just a lie. And this fraud, another one, made it 130,000. employees of the Łódź light industry - fibrous fibres, weaver, from the finishing room - and mainly, in 80%, they were women, saw on their belts with payouts an amount lower by 200.300 zł than before. So it's not only that no one's raised their wages, they've been reduced. The machines were stopped at the Cotton Industry Plant. Julian Marchlewski. It was the women who stopped the machines and persuaded their fellow masters to do the same, because the machines in such plants were always the men's masterminds. And so it was on February 10th, and on February 14th in Łódź 55 thousand were already on strike. employees of the light industry with 33 workplaces. First they tried to disarm it on the spot, then a government delegation arrived - of course, military and militia taboons were gathered. But it didn't help. The strike lasted. Prime Minister Jaroszewicz arrived, he thought for sure someone like who, but he would disarm this rebellion. He did not disarm, in the cotton industry of Marchlewski, or in the Peacekeepers' plants. These brave girls said no, and Mr. Prime Minister as unspeakable returned to Warsaw. They didn't dare use the army and the militia, and the girls knew they couldn't leave the workplace. There was no strike on the street, and it was a victory. On 15 February, a decision by the Council of Ministers to return from 1 March to prices prior to December 1970 was announced late in the evening. The Łódź fibers won. I will read only the last sentence of this resolution: The Sejm of the Republic of Poland on the 50th anniversary of this victorious strike expresses respect and admiration for the courage, discretion and determination of Łódź fibroids - the brave and wise (Dawn) heroes of the Polish road to democracy and independence. We thank you after 50 years and remember. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u468	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear two minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mrs Dominika Chorosinska from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u469	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to express my full support for the parliamentary draft resolution on the 50th anniversary of the winning strike of Łódź fibrous machines. These women deserve to be remembered and appreciated. It is worth mentioning that they worked in Spartan conditions, it was loud, it was full of dust, there were often tragic accidents, it cut off fingers, hands. They worked in a three - shift system, then returned and led the house - cooking dinner, taking care of the children. They slept very briefly. They worked very hard on the edge of exhaustion. The direct cause of the strike was the announcement of a reduction in wages, which, combined with the increase in food prices in December 1970, resulted in a drastic decline in the situation of workers and indeed, as the Member said earlier, on 10 February the machinery stopped at the Marchlewski plant. The uniqueness of the Łódź strikes was that mostly women were on strike, 80% they were women. They showed extraordinary courage, but not only, also extraordinary wisdom and responsibility, because the strikers stayed in the factory, which allowed to avoid bloodshed in the streets of Łódź. The factory owners changed, the political climate changed, but one thing remained unchanged: the superhuman effort of thousands of women. Julian Tuwim wrote: Łódź was built on the textile industry and the one on the work of women. I express great joy that in the end, after 50 years (the bell), these women gained a worthy and respectful place in Polish history. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u470	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u471	Mr. Marshal! My town Łódź is a unique city. Some say that the city of revolution, and it is not only about the revolution of 1905, but also about other events, among others. groundbreaking strike of Łódź students, which led to registration in 1981. The Independent Student Union and was the longest student strike in post-war Europe. We also say that Łódź is a woman, and this is not a coincidence, because some of the speeches that took place in Łódź had the face of women, such as the famous hunger march of women from July 1981, the biggest street demonstration in the Polish People's Republic. Women marched through Piotrkowska Street. According to the militia, there were 20,000 of them, according to witnesses of these events - over 50,000. The huge strength and determination of Łódź women showed 10 years earlier, just in February 1971, a fibrous strike. This is an important event not only in the history of Łódź, but the whole country. Lodzians then forced the communist authorities to abandon the increase in food prices, which did not succeed despite the bloody victims of workers from Gdańsk. They were brave women. One of these women made a statement by the authorities that she had expensive food, but sneaky tights, raised her skirt, pulled off her pantyhose and pulled out her bare buttocks, showing the prime minister of the then People's Poland, where he had his pantyhose. Other women greeted Jaroszewicz with the words: "Hello, gentlemen, magnates, and they did not allow him to speak. They were brave women. It is these women who have won what many men have failed to fight. Robotic Łódź won what - unfortunately - it failed to win in Gdańsk. These Łódź events were slightly forgotten in the national dimension, or maybe never occurred in the main trend of Polish history. A little undeserved, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because, like the later 10 years of the Łódź march, the Łódź women's starvation march was an expression in which women played a decisive role. All the more so they deserve to be commemorated by both Chambers of the Polish Parliament, because I will remind you that the Senate of the Republic of Poland had previously adopted a resolution on the same subject. The resolution of the Sejm will be the culmination of this symbolic act of memory. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u472	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u473	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm a scaffold, and I remember the 1970 strikes. With us, there were strikes in the yard and in the port, which is mostly men's crew strikes. And these crews and their male leaders have been mentioned, remembered, honored and honored for years. Unfortunately, women also strike in the yard, in the port were and are mostly forgotten. That is why it is good that thanks to the initiative of Mrs Śledzińska-Katarasinska the Sejm prepared and proposed a resolution commemorating women, heroes of that break, Łódź fibrous machines, which turned out to be smarter than shipbuilders, because they did not go out on the street. Szczecin's heroes of strikes have had a very good publication of "Mothers of Solidarity" by Kings Necessary with very good photographs of Andrzej Łazowski. I wish Łódź fibroids a good book, not the one made by IPN, God forbid, Mr. Grey. And I wish that they would stop being nameless heroes, so that their names and names could finally be remembered. Of course, the Left Club supports the resolution of the Sejm honoring Łódź heroines. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u474	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u475	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Perhaps, despite such late hours, we are also listened to by former workers of Łódź textile factories, the more or less known ones. Let me start today with a quote from Maria Filipowicz, who talked about her family in a thrilling way, and actually about the fate of many women working in these establishments: My mother raised four daughters alone, I was the oldest. One time when I was 13, my mom took an ambulance off the street. We had nothing to live for, so I changed my birth certificate and went to work in a tissue room in Dzierzyński. That's where I learned my trade. Working on the mill was hard, accompanied by constant noise. Ladies and gentlemen! That was the case, that was the fate of many women who then wanted to come to work on February 10th. They were not taught to strike, they were taught to work, but the humiliation they unfortunately experienced by the rulers required their determination and determined, concrete movements. On the 10th, 11th, 12th, when it started and it grew more and more, when this scale was already very large... The 14th power there decided to come, but it didn't work. It was only on the 15th that the decision to withdraw those December decisions was taken. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And good, ladies and gentlemen, that's what happened. It's a pity we're only remembering these resolutions. May we always remember those heroic ladies who then fought for free Poland in those February days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u476	Thank you very much. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Circle of Poselskie Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u477	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! History is written by acts of heroes, kings, soldiers, rarely by acts of ordinary people, and even less often by women. Neither this nor the previous year had any patronage chosen by the Sejm. The strike of Łódź fibroids was long forgotten because it had a more economic basis than political ones, although, as in 1905, this strike had a huge scale and real gain. That is why today I thank all the Łódź activists, scientists, socialists for the fact that the strike of Łódź fibroids has not been forgotten. I would like to thank Łódź Women's Path, Political Critics and Marcie Madejska, author of a wonderful book "Aleja Włóknięcznia" and, above all, to them, fibroids, women thanks to whom this strike took place. Members of the Circle Poland 2050 of course this project will support. Thank you very much, Mrs Sledzińska-Katarasinska, for this initiative. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u478	Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. The first question will be asked by Małgorzata Niemczyk from the Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u479	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is an honor for me as a woman and a boatwoman that today the High Chamber, when adopting a resolution, will commemorate heroes, women wonderful, brave, determined and very hard-working. This is all the more important because the cards of Polish history rather about those historical events forget. I believe that events from 50 years ago should be permanently included in national celebrations commemorating the heroes of fighting for free and democratic Poland, and about fighting fibroids should learn young people in history lessons. It's our duty and gratitude. That's why I ask: When will the government make the right changes? Today I express my highest appreciation for all the strikers and protesters in February 1971 in Łódź. It was an important moment in the investigation into freedom and independence. 50 years ago, Łódź women fought for their existence, their families' existence, their rights and their security. Today, after 50 years, successive generations of fibroids cross the streets of Łódź, fighting for their own rights, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Fighting for Poland fair, democratic, fighting for the constitution. Fifty years ago, the boats had enough. Today, women in Łódź are angry and tired of it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u480	Thank you. Do you expect Mrs Śledzińska-Katarasinska to answer this question? Because we are discussing the proposal by Mrs Śledzińska-Katarasinska. It was rhetorical. It's rhetorical, isn't it? Thank you very much. I will reply privately to you. Then answer me now. Mrs Agnieszka Hanajczyk. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u481	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank the author of this resolution by Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska for bringing up a very important history of ordinary, and really extraordinary women, Łódź women, who, out of helplessness, with desperation, built up their enormous strength, which we are also using today. As Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski said, Łódź actually has the face of a woman, a proud woman. We all know that this is one of the few Polish cities where three women sit in the strict authorities. And it is precisely this fight of Łódź fibroids 50 years ago for respect, for dignity, for women's rights that should be appreciated in contemporary history. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is very important for all of us, for women and for men. I ask the Polish government, first of all Minister Czarnek, to take into account this beautiful history of Łódź women, Łódź rakes and fibrous machines very creatively working on changing the basis of the program. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u482	Madam, what question did you want to ask? Just a question to Minister Czarnek - to put it on the program basis. May I ask if he'll place it, Mr. Marshal? Is that okay? Will he put it in? Good. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition, with a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u483	Mr. Marshal! We're talking about proud events involving brave women... Yes, sir, but at the moment we are asking questions about the draft resolution. It seems that the introduction to the question can be done. There you go. So, Mr. Marshal, we're talking about a 50-year-old event, and I would like to remind you that there is a direct connection to this, too, with an event that took place more than 20 years ago. The factories where these women worked, they fell, and those women who worked there for many, many years couldn't deal with the drama of losing their jobs. Later, many politicians of Law and Justice, as well as the President of the Republic of Poland - under the walls of one of these factories, promised these women that they would take care of their fate and rebuild industry. So I ask, when are these politicians finally going to fulfill their promises? Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u484	Thank you very much. For your questions, e.g. to your question, when these promises are fulfilled, the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Catarasinska, will answer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u485	Thank you very much, Marshal. Thank you very much to all those who speak for these questions, because these questions or maybe statements - Mr. Marshal is nervous - they are probably as important as the draft resolution and that the Sejm, I hope, will adopt this resolution by acclamation tomorrow. Mr. Marshal! I know the meeting may end late, but the third change in textiles is about to begin in the PDF. Marchlewski and that's where those women go in. I will answer the question to you and all my colleagues as to why this resolution came here, and I wrote it: because I have dedicated it to my mother-in-law, a rug, who has been dead for 40 years. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u486	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on honoring Władysław Żeleński on the 100th anniversary of death (prints No. 937 and 941). I would like to ask Mr Piotr Babinetz to present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u487	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the report of the Committee on Culture and Media about the draft resolution on honoring Władysław Żeleński on the 100th anniversary of death, prints No. 937 and 941. On 19 February this year, the Marshal of the Sejm addressed the above parliamentary draft resolution, the draft of the club Law and Justice, to the Committee on Culture and Media for the first reading. Our committee, the Committee on Culture and Media, after first reading and considering this project at its meeting on 23 February 2021 and after making minor amendments in cooperation between Members from all the clubs participating in this meeting and in cooperation with the Legislative Office, invites the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft resolution. I'll read this proposed project. The resolution of the Polish Sejm on honoring Władysław Żeleński on the 100th anniversary of his death. On 23 January 1921, Władysław Żeleński - composer, pianist, conductor and educator belonging to the most outstanding Polish musicians of the 19th century died in Cracow. Władysław Żeleński was born in 1837 in Grodkowice in Małopolska. He began his piano lessons with Jan Germasz and his music theory with Franciszek Mirecki in Cracow. He then went to Prague, where he studied organ playing, and also received a PhD from the University of Charles. Then he studied composition with Napoleon Henry Rebel at the conservatory in Paris. After returning to the country in 1872 he was a professor of harmony and counterpoint at the Music Institute in Warsaw and later - artistic director of the Warsaw Music Society. In 1888 he organized the Conservatory of the Music Society in Krakow and became his professor and rector. The composer's fame brought prestige to the university, which he led for 33 years. Władysław Żeleński is an artist whose achievements fit into the trend of national creativity, strengthening the spirit of Polishness in the years of captivity. His works are primarily operas referring to the Moniuszko tradition, such as Konrad Wallenrod, Old Fairy tale, Janek or Goplana, inspired by the works of national literature, and symphonic works derived from romantic music. Władysław Żeleński is a composer of symphony, overture in the Tatras, string quartets, piano trio and numerous other piano works and songs. Many of his works were printed in renowned publications in Germany and Italy. Although during the composer's life his works were highly appreciated and successful, today Władysław Żeleński's work was largely forgotten. Most of his works are currently difficult to access - many of his works are missing and modern restorations are rare. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to Władysław Żeleński on the 100th anniversary of his death, wishing to restore him a proper rank in the pantheon of national artists as an outstanding composer and representative of Polish neoromantic music. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u488	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear two minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Piotr Babinetz, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u489	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the club Law and Justice towards the parliamentary draft resolution on honoring Władysław Żeleński on the 100th anniversary of his death. In this case, the Marshals have submitted applications to the Foundation. Władysław Żeleński, and the chairman of the cultural committee, also submitted the National Museum in Warsaw, a branch of the Museum in Nieborów and Arcadia. The applicants wanted 2021 to be the year of Władysław Żeleński. This was not possible due to a large number of other equally good proposals to celebrate many outstanding Polish cultural artists. We decided to celebrate Władysław Żeleński with a special resolution. First of all, because he is an artist, as recorded in the resolution, whose achievements are part of national creativity, strengthening the spirit of Polishness in the years of captivity, the artist who referred to the Moniuszko tradition and his works were very outstanding works of Polish music of the 19th century, and secondly, and perhaps above all because he is one of the very outstanding and at the same time very forgotten Polish composers. That is why we have led to the preparation of this resolution, and now we hope that it will be adopted tomorrow. The Law and Justice Club supports and supports the resolution on the celebration of Władysław Żeleński on the 100th anniversary of his death. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u490	Thank you. Ms Urszula Augustyn, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u491	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The creator is versatile, reaching to most genres and forms, reliable in crafts guardian of the composer's tradition, artist responsible for art, outstanding organizer of musical life in the country, successor of Stanisław Moniuszko. Such an image of Władysław Żeleński was recorded by outstanding musicologists associated with Krakow: Zdzisław Jachimecki and Józef Reiss. I am very pleased that it is a man associated with Małopolska and that it was me who took part in presenting the position of the Civic Coalition Club about a special, commemorative resolution on the 100th anniversary of the death of this outstanding man. He was involved with Małopolska. He was born near Wieliczka, with Krakow connected his life, but also with Warsaw, Prague and Paris. He was also well educated not only musically. He studied philosophy because of his mother. That's how his mother managed his life. But in Krakow it was very dynamic. What I'm trying to say is, I don't think anybody remembers that it was his performances, his charity performances, that raised funds for the renovation of the dresses, for the construction of the hospital for them. St. Louis or setting the statue of Adam Mickiewicz on the market. He was an organist in the Basilica of Mary. He was a great teacher, the first director of the Conservatory of the Music Society in Krakow, which he led, as my predecessor said, for 33 years. Józef Reiss wrote about him at some point that he was a musical dictator of the royal city. Besides, he also became his honorary citizen. He inspired himself with great music: Mendelssohn, Schumann, Moniuszko of course, Brahms, Tchaikovsky, but also with folk music, which he reached for in the sense of patriotic duty. During his life his works were really appreciated and successful, but later it turned out that he had to give place to the works of composers of Young Poland. Meanwhile, in Krakow at the Academy of Music. Krzysztof Penderecki will be reminded of the rich composer's achievements of Władysław Żeleński throughout 2021. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The achievements are versatile, diverse, supported by romantic tradition, faithful to the centuries-old art of the composer's crafts. Thank you very much to the professors and students of the Krakow Academy of Music. I used a fantastically prepared web site showing this outstanding and forgotten character. You've achieved another educational success. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u492	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u493	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Stanisław Żeleński, we've already heard a lot about his life and work, he's a composer, but above all, an excellent cultural animator and organizer of musical life. He studied in Paris and worked in Krakow. A representative of neo-romanticism in music, the second creator of operas and songs after Moniuszka. Four operas: Konrad Wallenrod, Goplana, Janek and Stara fairy tale, as well as orchestral and chamber works. After 1900, Żeleński's works were declared conservative and were overshadowed by the works of the new trend, the Young Poland. The composer's work has been forgotten. The Left supports a resolution resembling this character and its work, but we are concerned that since this resolution, this work will not be reminded, because since the resolution will not arrive music lessons in Polish schools, nor will it come to the Philharmonic, because the Ministers of Education from PiS do not care about artistic education. Nor will we listen to any Żeleński's work on the Polish Television, although public television should play a cultural role, but unfortunately there are tandeta and rags, and propaganda, Zenek, Jacek and the company. It's not only conservative, it's primitive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u494	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u495	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Władysław Żeleński lived 84 years, and his life, apart from occasional breaks, was connected with Kraków. Today even in Krakow it is forgotten, and its music is very rarely performed. His grave at Rakowicki Cemetery rarely appears candles. We don't remember the composer or his music. This composer was considered a dictator of the then musical Krakow. It was so quickly forgotten, and it was the number one character in music, thanks to which Krakow had the opportunity to become a musical center, where various influences were intersecting, where artists were coming because of Władysław Żeleński. Its versatility was admirable. He performed as a pianist, was a music reviewer, organizer of concerts, conductor of many orchestras, but also a pedagogue. He taught piano and taught composition, but most of all he composed. His music sounded not only in Krakow, but also in Lviv, Warsaw, Vienna, Prague, Paris and Petersburg, with great success. All you have to do is review Władysław Żeleński's list of compositions to see that his work is quite large. He composed four operas, eight commemorative cantats, about 20 choir pieces, both a cappella and accompaniment of various instruments, 18 orchestra pieces, including two symphonies, as well as music for three dramas, 19 chamber compositions, 30 pieces for piano, many fantastic songs. Sadly, many of these works are either missing or waiting for their discovery, or never published, and are only in manuscripts. So scientists have something to do. Today Władysław Żeleński's music after 100 years since his death sounds unfortunately sporadic. The most commonly performed song is an overture characteristic for the great orchestra The last big event turned out to be the premiere of Żeleński's opera, Goplana, [[♪ The bell ♪]] prepared by the Teatr Wielki Opera Narodowej in Warsaw, which was staged in Warsaw in 2016 on the 120th anniversary of the premiere. This opera impressed, was very appreciated, aroused the interest of many music lovers. It is worth recalling that she won the so-called. Opera Oscar in the category: a rediscovered work. This category already shows the position of Żeleński's music. 100 years since Władysław Żeleński died this is a good time to return to this composer and make his music much more in our lives. You have to look, explore, get to know, because this music is worth it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u496	Thank you very much. The question was asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń of the Civic Coalition, but he resigned. Would the rapporteur like to say something? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Very good. Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the celebration of Józef Brandt on the 180th anniversary of his birth (prints No. 938 and 942). I would like to ask Mr Piotr Babinetz to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u497	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the celebration of Józef Brandt on the 180th anniversary of his birth, prints No. 938 and 942. As in the case of Władysław Żeleński - Władysław and not Stanisław Żeleński - the Committee on Culture and Media carried out its first reading, it considered this project at its meeting on 23 February this year. and after making minor amendments, he adds that the High Sejm should approve this draft resolution. And the draft resolution is: The resolution of the Polish Sejm on the celebration of Józef Brandt on the 180th anniversary of his birth. On 11 February 1841 Józef Brandt was born - one of five, next to Jan Matejka, Piotr Michałowski, Józef Chełmoński and Henryk Siemiradzki, the most outstanding Polish painters of the 19th century. The artist was born in Szczebrzeszyn in a wealthy, Warsaw-based, socialized intelligent family with German roots. His grandfather was a professor of medicine at the University of Warsaw. The painter's father, also a doctor, fought in the November Uprising. He died prematurely of typhus, planting his family. First lessons of drawing Józef Brandt took from his mother, Krystyna from Lesslów - amateur painter, daughter of the famous architect Fryderyk Albert Lessl. In 1859 the future artist began engineering studies at the School of Bridges and Roads in Paris, but abandoned them for painting. He met Julius Kossak and was influenced by him to study in the historical painting studio of Léon Cognita. After returning to the country together with Julius Kossak, he traveled to Ukraine and Podole. From then on, the Eastern Kresas became his favorite subject. Brandt made his debut in 1861 at the exhibition of the Warsaw Society for the Encouragement of Fine Arts. Two years later, he began his studies at the Academy of Fine Arts in Munich, where he perfected his painting workshop, creating works in the field of realism and battle painting. In 1870 he opened his own studio in Munich, which belonged to the most famous in the city. He collected a collection of very valuable items: old weapons, furniture, and clothing, gathered with love and fame. He was considered the leader of the so-called. Munich School of Polish Painting, which included among others. Aleksandra and Maximilian Gierymski, Alfred Wierusz-Kowalski, Wojciech Kossak and Leon Wyczółkowski. He was an international success. For his accomplishments he was awarded and honored with prizes at many exhibitions. He became an honorary professor of the Academy in Munich and a member of the Academy of Arts in Berlin and Prague. The artist, even though he lived many years outside the country, always emphasized his Polishness, expressing it even by signing the paintings as Józef Brandt from Warsaw. He spent the last years of his life in his wife's estate in Orońska near Radom, where he died in 1915. His canvas restored the memory of the greatness and knightly past of the Republic of both Nations. He painted battles, skirmishes, driveways, genre scenes from the history of Poland - from the times of victorious wars with Turkey, Russia and Sweden. Such scenes can be seen, among others. in pictures: 'The Battle of Chocim', 'Czarniecki pod Koldynga', 'Battle of Vienna', and 'Departure from Wilanów Jan Sobieski with Marysieńka' and 'Barski Confederates'. His favorite themes included scenes depicting the colors of the lines, which are visible in the paintings: 'City on Podol', 'Nad Dniestr' or 'Cossack wedding'. He was happy to paint horses, hunts and fairs - he is the author of e.g. paintings such as 'Falk Targ', 'Jews leading horses to the market', 'Jarmark in the Balta in Podole', on the occasion of the presentation of the scenes of trade in horses, charts, falcons or eastern carpets, were portrayed by small nobles of Podolska and Oriental merchants. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland on the 180th anniversary of the birth of Józef Brandt - an outstanding Polish painter, honours his memory and expresses his appreciation for the artist's creative achievements and great contribution to saving Polish identity and national consciousness. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u498	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear two minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr Babinetz on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u499	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Law and Justice Club obviously supports this draft resolution on the celebration of Józef Brandt. It is a great, not so forgotten as Władysław Żeleński, but also a great artist - a painter. In addition, in this resolution we wanted to remind other painters, especially from the 19th century, from this era in which Józef Brandt created, because if we make resolutions, we mostly worship in them, very rightly, people who gave their lives, fighting for the independence of our homeland, or often patrons of the year we establish people from the field of Polish literature, and painters much less often. It has happened in recent years that after the application of the Armenian diaspora in Poland there was a special resolution devoted to the memory of Teodor Axentowicz. Last year in Poland and Belarus was established by UNESCO in the year Ferdinand Ruszczyca, but in general there is little talk about painters. So that I think it's a good thing that we celebrate - and that's the decision that the Sejm - Józef Brandt will make tomorrow. We also mention John Matejka, Piotr Michałowski, Józef Chełmoński, Henryk Siemiradzki, Alexander and Maximilian Gierymski, Alfred Wierusz-Kowalski, Wojciech Kossak and Leon Wyczółkowski. But the 19th century is also Arthur Grottger, Władysław Podkowiński. The break of the 19th and 20th centuries is among others. The great painter Jacek Malczewski. I think it is very important that we are just like those wonderful artists of Polish painting. The Law and Justice Club supports the resolution on the celebration of Józef Brandt on the 180th anniversary of his birth. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u500	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Civic Coalition. I understand you're not here. Mrs Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u501	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am a great painter, so personally I am very pleased that we honor Joseph Brandt. We know that he is a battalist painter, a representative of the Munich school, and there is also a lot of information about his life and work in the resolution. He also studied in Paris, but his work had the greatest impact on his travels in Ukraine and Podol, which resulted in Brandt creating Batalistic and Historical paintings about Cossack fights, Tatar wars, and Swedish wars. He was fascinated by the history of 17th-century Poland, the Republic of both Nations - Poles and Lithuanians. In 1875. He was appointed a member of Berlin's art academy, and in 1900 he was elected an honorary member of the Academy of Fine Arts in Prague. So he was Polish and European. The Left supports the resolution, but, of course, again worries that we are creating, we are taking commemorative resolutions and there is little to follow. Information about art, about artists, plastics, composers at the Polish school is for medicine. Children and young people very rarely participate in museum lessons, which is common practice in Europe. We do not teach our young people how to communicate with works of art. In many schools, you have to choose either music or art. Probably from here so much ugliness on our streets that we don't respond to, and we don't rebel against. But we have two hours a week of catechesis for a dozen years and there will soon be a high school of religion. Sad and sad. It's tragic. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Oh, dear!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u502	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u503	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Coalition Club - Polish People's Party, ED, Conservatives, I would like to present our position. Joseph Brandt - a steppe poet, a poet under whose brush the frozen times will rise again. This motto reflects the sense of the work of one of the most outstanding Polish painters. This was perhaps most clearly expressed by Henryk Sienkiewicz in a letter in which he thanked the painter for the image he received: I send you, venerable master, the words of the most heartfelt thanks for this work of your brush, which will not only be a pearl in the collection of the liker, but also a way from you a souvenir for your hot admirer. I say this quite frankly, because I openly confess that I owe many inspiration, many ideas and many scenes in my Trilogy to your championship and your incomparable sense of knightly and steppe life. That's what the great writer said to the great painter. I think this will be the most important thought of this resolution, which of all means is legitimate and we will certainly support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u504	Thank you. The question Mr Olichwer wanted to ask. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u505	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Applicants! I have only such a request, a suggestion to the applicants of this resolution, not to write in her first sentence, that Józef Brandt this, I quote: one of five, beside Jan Matejko, Józef Chełmoński, Henryk Siemiradzki and Piotr Michałowski, the most outstanding Polish painters of the 19th century. In my opinion, this is a very subjective assessment. Here you can find the following: names of other equally outstanding artists of Polish painting in the 19th century. I myself would add at least a few names, in my opinion, equally outstanding and perhaps even more prominent Polish painters of this period. That is why I would ask you to modify this sentence before voting on the resolution. That's my point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u506	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. There isn't. Would the draftsman of the committee, Mr Piotr Babinetz, like to speak? He'd like that. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u507	Thank you, Marshal. I'd like to, and I'd have to. We've actually been thinking about this case. It is about reminding several other great Polish painters of the 19th century about Józef Brandt at the beginning of the resolution. As I said in my previous speech, we wanted to remind in the resolution concerning Józef Brandt also many other outstanding Polish painters of the 19th century. - both at the beginning of the resolution and in its further content - precisely because, although it is great and outstanding people, it is partly forgotten. I think any opportunity for these names to appear in public space is valuable. This outweighs what - as you rightly pointed out - is a subjective assessment. Still, I think it's better that those names appear than they're forgotten. But I think there's something else that's sad. In line with our work in the Committee on Culture and Media, we worked on projects concerning the celebration of Łódź fibroids, Władysław Żeleński and Józef Brandt. On the other hand, when we talk about Łódź fibroids, we hear attacks on the Institute of National Remembrance, when we talk about Władysław Żeleński, we hear attacks on Law and Justice, although it is the Law and Justice that reported this draft resolution when we talk about Józef Brandt, it gets to the Catholic Church. I hope that, after all, we will agree and jointly adopt all these resolutions and honor the Łódź fibroids, their dedication in the fight for independence of our homeland, as well as the works of Władysław Żeleński and Józef Brandt and their commitment to maintaining Polish identity during the age of partitions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u508	The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 22. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Energy Efficiency Act and some other laws (print No 957). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment, Mr Jack Odoba, to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u509	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to present a draft amending the Energy Efficiency Act. At the outset, I will say that this is the implementation of the provisions of the 2018 Directive. The aim of the project is to create a framework for the new solutions provided for in the revised Directive in 2018 aimed at achieving the national final energy savings target at the end of 2030. The most important changes made to the Energy Efficiency Act include: modifications of the current legal framework of the energy efficiency certificates system by extending the catalogue of entities obliged to market liquid fuels for transport purposes, allowing obliged entities to fulfil their energy savings obligations in the form of non-refundable subsidies to connect customers to the district heating network or to exchange heat sources with final customers. The Act introduces the so-called. alternative measures as a complementary tool to the energy efficiency certification system. The Act also seals the system for monitoring and reporting energy savings by establishing a central register of final energy savings. The energy savings of alternative measures will be aggregated in the register. The next point we want to put forward in this proposal is the strengthening of the provisions on energy efficiency agreements. The Act clarifies the situations in which these agreements will not affect the increase in the level of public debt. In addition, the legislation contains an amendment to the Act - Energy law to strengthen the existing rules on measuring and individualising heat billing for final customers. Moreover, in addition, the amendment of the Act on personal income tax, the Act on Public-Private Partnership and the Act - Environmental Law. Importantly, the project does not entail a burden on the state budget and the budget of local government units. The project increases the revenues of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u510	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Iwona Arent, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u511	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the government draft law amending the Energy Efficiency Act and some other laws, print No. 957. The project was introduced because of the need to implement the EU Directive, so it is primarily intended to implement European Union law. The countries of the European Union present a variety of adopted energy efficiency commitments in terms of savings, depending on the specific circumstances of national or national legislation. In Poland we have a system of energy efficiency certificates. The project also introduces changes - as the Minister said - also in other laws: on personal income tax, energy law, public-private partnership, environmental law. The aim of this project is to prepare in our country a legal basis for the solutions contained in the directive. In short, this directive concerns final energy savings at the end of our country, 2030 at 5580 toe, i.e. tonnes of equivalent oil. Therefore, we all know that we need to save energy and that is why this project will move in this direction in order to adapt our legislation to the solutions that the Minister has said. In conclusion: the project is needed, necessary, adapts Polish law to this directive, but above all it serves to achieve a lower level of energy consumption, i.e. energy savings. My club will vote in favour of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u512	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Pontylius, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u513	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're talking about the Energy Efficiency Act. I'm a little disappointed with what the Minister just said, but I hope we'll still be working on this on the committee, because it's just the first reading. But there are two points that I would like to talk about and which, in my opinion, are very important on this occasion, and are also included in this law, as it is justified. Firstly, it is the energy policy of the state, Poland until 2040. Where is this document, Minister? We still don't have it today. I'm the one who can ask you the same question. For this we have some 18-page brochure published by the government after the Council of Ministers, which is actually a pile of old indicators drawn from somewhere that are no longer valid, because Prime Minister Morawiecki declared a 55% reduction in greenhouse gases by 2030 at the beginning of this year, while the records actually cover only 30%. You don't really have this show, and I know why. Because you're hiding it under a blanket because you're afraid of what the mining, energy unionists will say, who seem to be not responding best to what the government has proposed and agreed to in Brussels. I happen to think that this is a good direction, but you are now a little ashamed of what you have agreed in European circles. And so it would also be worthwhile for this state's energy policy to come up with a schedule, some Gantt chart, which would show what you are going to do when you turn off all kinds of coal blocks and what you're going to replace it with. Where do we play our part as citizens? Is there any prosumer energy for us that you have money for? And the second thing worth mentioning on this occasion is the Clean Air programme. Because the fact that today we are all discussing and agreeing that emissions are fatal cases, are cancers among Poles, and this is counted in thousands of cases per year, is one thing, but I ask why we today under the "Clean Air" programme allow for the exchange of some coal kilns for other coal furnaces. Of course, these new furnaces are of the fifth generation, they are greener, but really after the success of the government's programme, my current, in my opinion today we should not talk about anything other than renewable energy installations, such as prosumer, home appliances, on farms. They don't always have to be photovoltaic panels. In some cases it could be a micro-biogas plant, it could be some small windmills. I know you killed the windmills with your solutions, but maybe it's worth going back to that. Another thing is that the state proposed financing of the "Clean Air" programme at the level of PLN 103 billion. In the first two years of implementation of this programme, only 3 billion have been spent. This task must be delegated to municipalities, to powiats, to voivodship environmental funds. It can't be one unit on a national scale that decides whether or not money is granted. I know the justification of government ministers who say that this is happening faster and faster, that it is moving forward. But it's not the right pace. We're supposed to spend 103 billion by 2029. We barely spent three billion. Why? I suspect the real background to the fact that there's such a narrow throat is a lack of money. You just don't have the money for the Clean Air program. You have announced a big project, you have planned for 10 years and spending very impressive amounts, only that these amounts are paper, because this money goes to other things. I don't know for what, maybe for social programs, or maybe they're just consumed by the multiplication of ministries, ministerial stools, secretariats, cars and all the power-related apanages. The truth is, there's not much good going on here, unfortunately, and not at this rate. You can't spend that kind of money in the next 10 years if you're holding everything back to your chest and only NFOŚ can make those financial decisions. Even with banks there's a problem, it takes you two years to agree on a coefficient. [[♪ The bell ♪]] One last thing, Marshal. I would like to remind you of the NIK report on this bill. The NIK report says a record in issuing white certificates... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]] Mr... ...for URE - 1158 days. I dedicate this, Minister, to our discussions on the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u514	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Beata Maciejewska on behalf of the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u515	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is very good that we are in the European Union because we can implement programs and seal systems in which Poland is very poor. Our energy system today is like a hole bucket in which we carry coal, burn it, pay a lot for it, poison the environment around us. Energy efficiency alongside energy savings and renewable energy sources should be the pillars of energy development in Poland. Recently, a document presented by Leviathan and the Energy Forum, supported by several organisations: Clientearth, Instrat Foundation, Foundation for Energy Effective Energy Use and a number of others, called the Energy Impuls for Poland. I hope you know this document at the Ministry. He points out that improving energy efficiency, in general in energy policy, is a key tool for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, improving the air quality and health of inhabitants, increasing energy security, reducing electricity and heat costs for consumers and increasing the competitiveness of Polish industry and services. Actually, it is, and whether we talk about big companies or we talk about households. Because if we have a house, where through the wall, through the windows, we escape heat through the door, when we have to pay for it, when we have to spend money on the energy that we really heat the air, and so we burn more and more different kinds - especially in Poland - of fossil fuels, it doesn't pay anybody. Energy efficiency pays off basically everything, it pays off to the final consumer, because at a time when less energy is wasting, he pays lower bills when he pays lower bills, which means he consumes less energy, so the environment is cleaner as well. These are savings for the environment and these are real savings in our pockets. At the same time, this is also an economic stimulus, because if we pay less for energy, if our energy system is more cost-effective, then our companies are more competitive on the market. From this perspective, as well as the long-term climate and environmental, economic and social objectives, energy efficiency is a rational and cost-effective approach. Today in many cities in Poland the so-called. urban energyists. These are people whose salaries actually pay in savings for energy consumption, because they can manage this energy. That's how it's supposed to be in every government, that's how it's supposed to be in every ministry. I've asked the ministry how they deal with it. It is not the place to talk about it today, but really energy management, energy efficiency and savings are not something we deal with on a daily basis. It is time to start putting energy efficiency on the pedestal of our approach to energy, not the construction of new coal blocks, not the construction of new gas blocks, but the savings, efficiency and creation of a prosumer network based on renewable energy sources available to people to pay ever lower electricity bills, because in Poland post-COVID, after this great wave of pandemics, we will need to help people, even in such a way as to have as low energy bills as possible. Thanks to investments in energy efficiency, we have the opportunity to make these energy bills ever lower, both for individual consumers and for the whole industry. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u516	Thank you very much, Member. On behalf of the Polish Coalition, Mr Andrzej Grzyb. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u517	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, the question which was raised here not directly by Mrs Sowinska about energy savings and efficiency can be simplified in one such statement: which energy is the cheapest? The one that wasn't used. All that serves to improve energy efficiency is just saved money, on the one hand, in the consumer's pocket, but also, on the other hand, saved in the economy, and at the same time saved in terms of environmental consequences. This government project, which implements two directives, the Energy Efficiency Directive, which is amended by the earlier 2012 Directive, and the Directive on common rules for the internal market in electricity from 2019, resulting in amendments to four other laws, i.e. on income tax, energy law, environmental law and the Public-Private Partnership Act. All these provisions are, of course, intended to ensure that, as a result, energy savings across the European Union are, according to a certain indicator, 32.5%. more, and in our national plan, this will lead to 23% savings by 2030 which is 27 Mt equivalent oil. This is a huge amount of primary energy. This also obliges Member States, including Poland, to achieve a final energy saving of almost 1% by 2030 the average annual energy consumption from 2016 to 2018. Our national target in these 10 years is to close in the form of savings of 5.5 thousand. t equivalent oil. This is to be encouraged by some of the programmes referred to here by Minister Decoration, such as changes in hot water or hot water and heating systems, which are intended primarily to be characterized by higher energy efficiency. I think that where there are network systems, this is intended primarily to use the heat of the network. And at the same time, if it were combined with cogeneration... Here we have huge possibilities on the scale of Poland, because energyists, district heating companies calculated that the Polish heating system is able - if it was co-financed - to deliver up to 10 thousand. MW of electricity in addition to heat, with a very high efficiency rate. This would be very desirable and this should be found in the National Energy and Climate Plan, which includes. aims to implement these objectives and objectives for the implementation of the Energy Union in five dimensions, including efficiency, renewable energy sources and emission reductions. Of course, this will also lead to reporting in one source. And this one source or place where it is supposed to be, so to speak, a cumulative account showing how this efficiency is increasing, as we have calculated it, is going to be the Institute of Environmental Protection, which is going to be burdened with this new task. This is a state institute. I think he's able to meet all those expectations that are related to the cumulative account. Furthermore, the amendment to the Energy Law also introduces an obligation to equip all premises - for many years we have been talking about it - in measuring the heat and water collected. It is always the case that if there is a measurement on the scale of the entire building or settlement, then of course no one saves. Everyone says they're saving money, and we're really dealing with waste. Measuring at the level of the apartment, the premises always gives very good results. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a necessary implementation. At the same time, it is a very necessary process which we need to implement in the Polish economy in order to achieve efficiency gains in this way, in the cheapest way, but at the same time stimulating the economy. Because all these specific activities that are included here are also related to the investment process. They also stimulate demand in the market. And this is conducive to the Polish economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u518	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. I'm closing the list. Mr Paweł Pontylius, the Civic Coalition, will ask the first question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u519	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Here's the question. In the explanatory memorandum of this law, you describe various forms of support for thermomodernisation, increasing energy efficiency in Europe. In fact, from what you write, it appears that Poland is going through a fairly archaic system that is in force in three countries: in the UK, which is no longer in the European Union, in France and in Italy. On the other hand, it seems that a fairly good system exists in Germany, where there is really money for thermomodernisation, to increase energy efficiency in various aspects, within public funds. They are simply used by entities or houses. Do you think that our white certificates system is no longer very archaic today and, on the other hand, very heavy? It is what I have just dedicated to the Minister (the bell). Thank you, sir. Delays almost 2 years in issuing these certificates. Shouldn't we just rebuild this system at all so that it's not heavy and bureaucratic?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u520	Thank you very much. Another question, Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u521	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the provisions of the Act, by 1 January 2027 the owner or manager of a multi-site building will replace the heat meter, heating cost dividers or hot water meters installed before the date of entry into force of the Act with remote reading equipment. I have this question: Does the government intend to apply to housing cooperatives and multi-family building managers a system of aid for the replacement of these devices? The next question is this. According to estimates available, the number of single-family houses heated by solid fuels is 3.5 million in Poland. What is the aid scheme for replacing these furnaces supposed to look like? Because only this can make a significant contribution to the jumping increase in their exchange. Finally, the question [[♪ The bell ♪]] Last one. What is the overall aim of the system and funding programme to co-finance energy efficiency projects? I'd like a written reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u522	Thank you, sir. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u523	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I present the graphics on which the Polish Government admitted that we did not reach the 15% target. RES by 2020. According to the government, this is 13.8. Minister! The specific question is: How much and when will we pay for this indicator? And the second question: Do you, Minister, know that one of the companies of the Treasury, will not say which, energy, deceives Poles, for example. promotion of RES, proposes two-month accounting periods? This is an outrage, ladies and gentlemen, where it should be mandatory for a month. If we are to promote renewable energies, it is not in such a way as to deceive Poles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u524	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. For answers to the questions asked - many were not there - please ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment of Minister Jack Ornament. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u525	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm gonna answer these three questions. As for RES, it's a proposal that these questions... Of course, there will be a written reply, but I do not deal with this on a daily basis because of my competences allocated to the Ministry of Climate Change, so there will actually be a proxy for renewable energy. As for the question asked by Mr Poncilius, it is indeed the biocertificate system that operates in several countries. But we will really look at this legislative process, whether this proposal, in fact, is correct or not. But we're proposing additional possibilities that will come from the bill. As regards the issue of financing with housing cooperatives under the modernisation fund, we want this possibility to provide for such funding to be available. I do not know if this is satisfactory, but I understand that in committee work we will examine these comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u526	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Energy Efficiency Act and certain other laws, contained in print No 957, to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets for consideration. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm, based on the article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committee by 16 March 2021. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 24 February this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? I can't see, no one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. The first statement will be made by Marek Rutka, the Left Club. I can't see. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition. Here you are, sir, the speaker is yours.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u527	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Ministry of Family and Social Policy has taken the right initiative to inoculate day support staff as soon as possible, i.e. therapeutic and environmental cemetery workers. To consider and take up this issue can help to prevent the loss of work of a large number of people involved in public tasks involving live work in educational establishments and other workplaces with children and young people. It is about supporting NGOs in an epidemic in the capacity to carry out public tasks in the field of education, education and psychological assistance of children and young people. This is a very good idea, whose implementation will simply allow for the organisation of safe care for children and young people. I want to draw attention to another problem that needs to be solved. The end of this crazy school year is coming. Parents, especially children, are already thinking about summer recreation. It seems to me that after many months of tiring remote teaching, sitting in four walls of a house or apartment or lack of winter holidays organized summer holiday by the sea, in Mazury or in the mountains would be most appropriate. I therefore call for equal treatment with teachers and day support staff and for voluntary vaccination of colonial educators, scout instructors and educators. The tourism industry is hoping that in the summer, while maintaining the sanitary regime, it will be possible to organise summer holidays for children and young people. Entrepreneurs want to keep their sanitary requirements as far as possible and think that one of them will be the vaccination of colonial educators. On behalf of the tourism industry, I therefore ask the government to develop and publish as soon as possible the rules and requirements that will apply to the organisation of summer holidays. Work on these regulations should be ongoing. Let the tourism industry, so hard-experienced by the pandemic, at least once in advance find out what the rules are. She'll come to work in the summer. They just deserve it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u528	Thank you very much, sir. Another statement will be made by Mr Tomasz Olichwer, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u529	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As a member of Silesian soil, I am very concerned about the recent situation of the Tarno Góra Land Lovers' Association, which for many years alone and, to date with great success, manages the UNESCO World Heritage Sites, the historic silver mine and the Black trout Valley. Due to the pandemic, this association was in a very difficult financial situation. Until now, the association has not received any permanent support for its activities and the facilities have been maintained thanks to tourists. More than 170 thousand visited them each year. persons. The current situation is so dramatic that, as a result, without permanent or temporary financial support from the State, it may even result in the loss of the title of UNESCO World Heritage Site for which the members of the association have worked for years. Silesian parliamentarians, Sejmik Województwa Śląskie, enthusiasts and famous artists from Tarnowskie Góra were involved in saving valuable objects, while the local government allocated an amount of 75 thousand for the association. zł. However, a comprehensive solution is needed. The best solution seems to be to include in the Act on grants for certain entities, as has already been done in the case of salt mines Bochnia and Wieliczka or the Museum of Coal Mining in Zabrze, or the second solution - within the framework of programs, as in the case of other Polish monuments included in the UNESCO World Heritage List. I would therefore like to appeal to the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister for Culture and Heritage of Mr Piotr Gliński for personal involvement in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u530	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u531	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It will be a letter to friends of Europeans. Dear Friends! In 1989 my homeland regained its freedom, communism fell, and Poland joined democratic states, entered NATO, entered the European Union more slowly or faster, but it developed. Our holiday of freedom lasted less than 25 years, and it dwindled in 2015 when dangerous political careers and dilemmas won elections in Poland. In the last five years, they have destroyed the justice system and democratic state institutions, as well as international relations, in short: you have dismantled the law and created its caricature. Imagine, dear friends of Europeans... Disgraceful! ...that people like that win the election. They're winning and they're starting to clean things up. First, they lead the state television of their former Member, throw out independent journalists, and the private media want to finish off. Imagine that the authorities make a deal with the Catholic Church, which they give hundreds of millions of euros for their support, while stinging at the care of the disabled and the cancer program or child psychiatry. Lie! Imagine that the Constitutional Tribunal, taken over by authority, is ruling under the dictation of the ruling party. Recently this pseudotribunal stated that a woman cannot interrupt pregnancy, said that Polish women do not have the right to decide about themselves. Yes, our authority considered that in the name of religious dogmas, Polish women could be condemned to give birth to children with such genetic and developmental burdens that they would probably not survive for a few days. Why? Because that's what the Polish Church says, because that's what Polish nationalists say. It's better to kill. Imagine that the mother of such a child is offered a separate room so that she can cry. This isn't a joke. There's no psychic support here. Since October, when this ban was announced, we Polish people have been protesting on the streets. And what do the police do? It intimidates us, treats us with gas, smokes us, and state television calls us crazy and child killers. Imagine the police entering the house of a 14-year-old in the morning because they encouraged these protests, and the 17-year-old convicts for having organized these protests. Sounds awful. I am talking about this because we are asking for solidarity and support. The Polish people do not have the right to decide for themselves, the Government of Law and Justice forbids us to do so. Lie! This may happen with you as well. We need solidarity between borders very, very much. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u532	The heights of lies and hypocrisy, of course, the street and abroad. Mr Krzysztof Tuduj, Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u533	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to draw attention to the current, very difficult situation of young doctors who specialize in volunteering. They decided to have the option to gain directional specialization when they failed to get the specialization from this residential, paid pool. The decision was made consciously in order to invest in their competences. Unfortunately, this option is not foreseen by EU law everywhere. Last year, the Sejm, adapting Polish regulations, passed a law under which this volunteering was no longer possible. There has been a situation where these practices, ongoing specialisations are at risk and may not be completed. Hospitals were forced to annex voluntary contracts, employ young doctors at the lowest national level - but not from the Ministry, but from the hospital. Not all hospitals wanted that, explaining the lack of finance. Some of them terminate contracts and throw out doctors during specialization. Some hospitals, on the other hand, take advantage of the opportunity and force doctors to sign loyalties. This is a drama for these young doctors during their specialization. Some people are literally a few months short. or even weeks until it's finished, and there's a risk that it won't work. In this case, I was approached by a group of young doctors from Wroclaw, who were directly affected by this problem. In Wrocław alone it is several dozen, close to a hundred people. On the one hand, the Ministry of Health wants to download the so-called. Shamans from Asia and Africa and nostrils diplomas to doctors from outside the European Union, and on the other hand - does not care about the completion of training by Polish specialists. This isn't right. I therefore request that the government urgently take care of the fate of this professional group, has come up with the appropriate proposal to prevent the cessation of specialisation. This is not just a problem for doctors, volunteers, but for all Poles who, as we all know, wait too long for access to a specialist. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u534	Thank you, sir. Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u535	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! A few days ago we celebrated the 150th anniversary of the birth of Eugeniusz Romer - a Polish geographer, cartographer and geopoliticalist, educator, patriot, one of the most outstanding Poles of the last century. I wanted to remind you of this special Pole. Eugeniusz Romer was born on 3 February 1871 in Lviv. His parents Edward and Irena came from old noble families. He spent his childhood in Krosno. In 1881, he started his middle school in Jasła, and continued his studies in Nowy Sącz. After receiving the certificate of maturity he studied history, law, ethics, literature history, geography and geology at the Jagiellonian University, Halle and Lviv University. He graduated in 1893. A year later, he defended his PhD in philosophy and then passed his teacher's exam. He deepened his education in Vienna, Berlin. From 1899 he was a professor of the Lviv Academy of Commerce, in 1908 he became an extraordinary professor at the University of Lviv, where he obtained the title of professor of ordinary. He created a geography school in Lviv, including physical, economic and cartography. On the spectrum principle developed by him, the international scale of height colours developed. To describe the map he proposed mainly block writing, easy to read. Polish naming was used on Polish maps. In his 1904 edition of Geography of Polish Lands, he stated: Poland is a land representing a geographical whole, and this is the reason why, despite the political breakdown, it has not yet died. The concept of Poland is stronger than the temporary coincidence of historical facts and political changes. He fought for national identity, political subjectivity of Poland as an area, national and cultural community. His works gave a thorough, theoretical justification of the place of Poland in Europe. In 1908, a small geographical Atlas was released. Thanks to him, Poland's synthetic and school cartography was in the world's forefront. In 1916 he published the Geographical and Statistical Atlas of Poland, in which he presented the image of Poland in terms of physical, national, economic and cultural terms, showed where the Poles reached, where they were cultural, economic and organisational forces and where they were in minorities. It was published in four languages. He was a member of the Polish delegation at a peace conference in 1918 in Paris, organized after the end of World War I. During the conference the Treaty of Versailles was signed. In 1921 he participated in the justification of the topographical details of the Polish Eastern border. In 1921. [[♪ The bell ♪]] founded the Cartographic Institute of Atlas, in which maps and atlases were printed according to its concept. He founded the first cartographic magazine.Polish Cartographic Review. After the war, he worked to the end. He died on 28 January 1954. Let's remember the great Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u536	Thank you, Member. Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u537	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's statement I have about the Polish Army Major Zygmunt Szendzielarz Szupaszki on the 70th anniversary of his death. Zygmunt Szendzielarz was a professional officer of the Polish Army, who defended the borders in 1939. This year he escaped from Russian captivity, including conspiracy activities, finally at the AK OGM. During that time, he accepted the pseudonym "Łupaszka." In 1943, he took command of the forest branch from which the legendary 5 was founded. The Vilnius National Army brigade. For 2 years, the Squad fought against German troops supported by Lithuanian collaborating formations, as well as with Soviet guerrillas. In 1944, the branch was surrounded by the Soviets. Lupuszka disfigured the brigade. Soldiers went west. They could also go back to Vilnius. In turn Lupaszka subpoenaed his branch to the Command of the Białystok National Army. Partisans from other troops of the Home Army joined the branch. In this way, 5. The Vilnius Brigade, which fought against the Red Army, NKVD, KBW, MO and UB. He left his branch only in 1947 and has since been sentenced to hide. He was arrested on June 30, 1948 and held a demonstration process in Warsaw. The investigation itself lasted over two years. Spies, attacks on Russian security and cooperation with Germany were accused of espionage. He was shot in the back of the head on February 8, 1951 and thrown into a nameless grave. The burial took place only 65 years after his death, with national honors, in Powązki. Hello and praise the heroes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u538	Thank you, sir. Małgorzata Niemczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u539	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The February event 1971 is an important card not only in the history of Łódź itself, but also in the scale of the whole country. In Łódź, on February 10th, a strike of Łódź fibroids against communist power broke out. Thanks to the Łódź girls, the communist government bowed down and in the evening on 15 February announced the cancellation of high increases in many of the first-needed articles introduced on 12 December 1970. It's been 50 years since those events. We must remember that the situation and working conditions in the Łódź industry were very difficult. The factories had an outdated machinery park. The work of Łódź fibroids, order, weaver was very hard. They were accompanied by constant and enormous noise, pollination, moisture and dust. The economic situation of many families has deteriorated significantly since December. At that time, like now, wages received by workers were much lower than the national average. Up to 40% the inhabitants of Łódź were collecting allowances for the least earners. On February 10, there was a spontaneous rebellion because of the cost, low wages and hunger. About 45 grand. The women were on strike. At the climax, it was 55,000. protestors. They fought for equal rights, a transparent system of wage fixing, fair wage calculation and fair distribution of the export premium, for a breakfast break. Initially there were only economic demands, but later there were also political demands, including security guarantees for strikers, punishment for the guilty of bloodshed. Other Łódź strikes until then were resolved by the authorities by force. There's been an execution of strikers, bloodshed. On February 14, the occupation strike began because there was no agreement. Prime Minister Piotr Jaroszewicz and members of the political office came to Łódź. After years in the book.I interrupt silence, he wrote that after his visit to Łódź he realized that Łódź fibroids had to raise their wages or raise their salaries. Afraid that other professional groups would start demanding increases, it was decided that from March the food prices would return to the level before December 1970. It is an honor for me as a woman and a boatwoman that today the High Chamber, when adopting a resolution, commemorates the heroines - wonderful, brave, determined and very hardworking women. This is very important, especially since the pages of Polish history about those historical events were forgotten. I believe that events from 50 years ago (The Bell) should be permanently inscribed in national celebrations commemorating heroes fighting for free and democratic Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u540	Thank you, Member. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u541	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 23 December 2020, the Minister for Health set up a Joint Committee for Health. preparation of legislative arrangements for the restructuring of hospitals. In the composition of this team he completely omitted those who were very well acquainted with the management of hospitals, i.e. directors, managers and representatives of the founding bodies of hospitals. According to some local government officials, the team will not prepare and create anything because of its official subordinates, but will only transfer PiS management dispositions to the paper to increase the confusion in health care management in order to distract attention from the problems caused by the government. During the pandemic, while the number of those who are ill increases in the number of those who are saying goodbye forever, the Polish government is preparing a health care reform. For the Polish government, the biggest problem is that not all hospitals and clinics in Poland are directly subject to Warsaw, because according to him the best management is from Warsaw and in Warsaw officials know what patients in Kłodzkie Kotlin need and how to manage the hospital. in Bydgoszcz. However, local authorities point out that health care problems do not start at hospital level, they start at primary health care level, which differs far from the former assumptions of the family doctor because of limited access to outpatient care or lack of mechanisms to regulate the demand for medical services. As the local government officials from Kujaw and Pomerania, whom I have the honour to represent, at hospital level, problems arise mainly from the unfavourable calculation of lump sums for hospitals, the amount of salaries necessary for the payment of medical staff, the deficit of medical workers and several other reasons. According to local authorities, the functioning of the health system will not improve without comprehensive solutions. The best confirmation of this is that the hospital debt restructuring programme has been implemented several times since 1989 and has not led to a lasting improvement. Meanwhile, the Ministry of Health's intention is to centralize and take hospitals away from local governments is a way to treat and get out of the health system. I would like to call for these negative opinions on the reform of hospitals and how they are conducted, which were forwarded to the Minister by the Management Board of the Polish Districts Union and the Kujawsko-Pomorskie Region Convention (Dzwonek), to be taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u542	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Duda, Law and Justice. There is no Member. Mr Krzysztof Smishek, Club Left. There isn't any either. Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski, Coalition Poland. I'm here. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u543	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On 18 January 2021, a draft agreement was published for the implementation of cohesion policy in Poland. This document contains proposals on how we will implement this cohesion policy in our country. For example, we will spend over 25 billion on infrastructure and environment, EUR 8 billion on innovation and cooperation between science and business, EUR 2 billion on digitization of Poland, the creation of broadband networks. Funds for regional programmes have also been allocated. For me, as a Member of Warmia and Mazury, it is worrying that for the Warmia-Mazury voivodeship EUR 1,228 billion was initially foreseen. It is EUR 0.5 billion less than it was in the 2014-2020 perspective, i.e. Warmia and Mazury recorded a decrease in the allocation by almost 30%. This loss is the most severe in comparison with other voivodships with similar levels of development. Podlaskie Voivodship recorded a drop of 10.6% , lubelskie - 8,1% , Subcarpathian - 7.4% , Warmia and Mazury - 30%. How do we want to develop our country if so few industrialized voivodships receive powerful billions of zlotys? In the Responsible Development Strategy, we can read that this is to be responsible and socially and territorially sustainable development. Meanwhile, Warmia and Mazury, there is nothing to deceive - one of the poorest regions of the European Union - the financial forecast is decreasing by almost 30%. The regional programmes divided 75% appropriations, which means that there is still more than EUR 7 billion left in the programme reserve of the Council of Ministers. As we can read on the government website, funds were allocated to be distributed at a later stage of forecasting, during the negotiations of the programme contract. Prime Minister! The reduction in the Warmia-Mazury region's allocation of money by 30%, when the allocation for the whole of Poland was reduced by only 9%, is extremely harmful and unfair to the inhabitants of Warmia and Mazury. I call on the government of the Republic of Poland to significantly support the development of the Warmia-Mazury voivodeship and allocate more funds to this region than is planned. Responsible development is the development of all regions (the Bell) and the reduction of inequalities between regions. I would just like to point out that the unemployment rate recorded in the warmińsko-mazurskie voivodship has been the highest in the country for years. In 2020, the region was the only one in the country where it remained at a two-digit level, i.e. 10.1%. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u544	Thank you, sir. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u545	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Recently, we have heard a great deal about support for municipalities in which there were state farms. We hear about the money that's going to support these areas, the millions, it's a shame it's not about the billions. But, ladies and gentlemen, today I would like to give a concrete example of a certain injustice, which unfortunately for almost 30 years is still taking place in the Republic of Poland. And I'm talking about former employees of state-owned agricultural holdings, which are based on article. 42 of the Law of 19 October 1991 on the Management of Agricultural Real Estate of the State Treasury, with its subsequent amendments, had the opportunity to acquire, of course, on preferential terms, those flats in which they lived, and 5-a-year gardens, the ladies and gentlemen of the State. The last state-owned agricultural holding was liquidated in 1995. It's been almost 30 years, but there's still a community in the war. West Pomerania, the municipality of Trzebiatów, and there are, ladies and gentlemen, towns such as Novilice, Trzebusz, Sadlno, Wlewo, Mirosławice, where you live today. They took over these apartments, founded communities, cooperatives. On the other hand, applications for gardens, ladies and gentlemen, are still in the National Agricultural Support Centre. They're lying there and they're not being dealt with. I demand justice on behalf of the inhabitants who have spent their entire lives on these farms, building them, developing them, and being left alone. The point is to finally make them feel like they got what they were once promised in this country. I therefore expect an answer from the Minister in writing. And I hope that KOWR will finally take care of what he should have done 30 years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u546	Mr Michał Grammar, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u547	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Silesian Museum in Katowice is a museum for which we have fought for so long, a museum which only after several decades was restored to the city and our region. And it was the Silesian Museum in Katowice that there has been no director since the Marshal of the Silesian Voivodeship dismissed Mrs Alicja Knas from the position of director of the Silesian Museum in Katowice at the beginning of 2020. The director hasn't been appointed. The court has finally ruled that the appeal of Director Alicia Knast was unlawful. The Management Board of the Silesian Voivodeship appointed the director of Mr Marcin Gwoździewicz, and after a year, despite the fact that he was legally obliged to announce the competition for the director of the Silesian Museum, appointed the next director, Mr Charles Makles. This situation, this lack of respect for the law - this is noticed by everyone, of course, except the Management Board of the Silesian Voivodeship. Even if the Deputy Prime Minister of the Polish Government, Mr Piotr Gliński, informs the Marshal of the Silesian Voivodeship that he should immediately announce the competition and select the director of the Silesian Museum, then know, man, that something is happening. It can't be that the tail of a merda dog, even if it's a tail, and the dog is from the PiS. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u548	Ms Agnieszka Hanaczyk, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u549	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During a difficult period of partitions Poles like Rajmund Rembielinski or Stanisław Staszic, great patriots, sought a chance to survive the nation in its dynamic development. It was precisely the placing on economic, financial and civilization progress that was intended to be the path of a certain future of Poles in an independent homeland. The policy of facilitating the placement of Polish textile craftsmen and dressers on the ground was an attempt to make effective use of the situation in which the Russian market was absorbent but closed to products from Europe. Acting in the spirit of activating residents of government cities, the Mazowieckie Voivodeship Commission led by Rajmund Rembielinski, wanting to encourage the settlement of Polish settlers, weavers and dressers from abroad, introduced a number of facilitations in the case of the opening of textile workshops. On 30 March 1821 a contract was signed, so-called. between the Provincial Commissioner of the Administrative Department of the Mazowieckie Voivodship Clement Witkowski and the representatives of the settlers: Carl Gottlieb Saenger from Chodzieza, Johann Heinrich Teske from Samocin and Johann Georgie Viertel from Rogózno. The agreement assumed that all new settlers, after taking the oath of faithfulness, acquired rights granted to citizens of the Kingdom of Poland. Each of them received a plot under the house and workshop and a large garden. The first immigrants were granted the right to harvest a tree free of charge for the construction of houses. The sons of the settlers were released from military service as soon as they learned the profession of weaver. The settlers have been granted the right to tax exemption for six years. Thanks to the Zgierz agreement, a modern, smartly designed settlement was created, whose fragments can still be admired in the Tkaczy City Cultural Park. The new town allowed for the rapid development of Zgierz, which over 10 years from a small town inhabited by 600 inhabitants became the economic leader of the region inhabited by several thousand people. The rules of the agreement were also in force in other towns of the then Mazowieckie voivodship: Dąbiu, Gostynin, Przecz or Łódź, which only several decades later became a world phenomenon of development and the power of light industry. But before that, Zgierz was the largest producer of dresses in this part of Europe. The Zgierska agreement is an example of the actions of the state authorities, which, thanks to tax reliefs, facilitating business placement and material support, gave a huge boost to development for local government and citizens. In a special jubilee year, the two hundredth anniversary of this important document, I wish the town of Zgierz all the prosperity, prosperity and continuous, wonderful development. Dear Compassion! Let's be proud of our town. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u550	Thank you, Member. And the last statement will be made by Andrzej Grzyb, the Coalition of Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u551	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I recall today the July 2020 summit, the European Council, after which the Prime Minister of the Polish Government, Mateusz Morawiecki announced that a major negotiation success had been achieved. In fact, if it were only the multiannual financial framework, we could not talk about the success of negotiations, but there was also a reconstruction plan, including a fund, which provides for almost EUR 60 billion for Poland. All local authorities, many local communities, of course, are very much looking forward to the distribution of this multi-annual budget and, in particular, what part of it will fall on regional operational programmes. And of course there is a big dissonance, because e.g. for Wielkopolska, the regional operational programme was allocated in this first division, in the first proposal only 44% the allocation from the previous financial perspective, i.e. a reduction of 56%. This is, Mr Ziejewski said here, almost twice as much as regards the reduction in relation to the previous financial perspective. We are aware that we are a region that has crossed this barrier 75% average GDP in the European Union by 1%, Lower Silesia by 2%. And now that we compare these potential proposals for divisions, including declarations made by government representatives, among others. in Lower Silesia, where it is said that Lower Silesia, which is in a similar situation as Wielkopolska, could potentially obtain additional funds from this 7-billion-dollar reserve, which will allow it to approach this limit of EUR 2.2 billion, i.e. Lower Silesia will have as much as in the previous financial perspective. Wielkopolska is in a similar situation, so we also expect an allocation that will come closer to this ratio of EUR 2.5 billion, which was in the previous financial perspective. Those declarations were made at a press conference with ministers from the current government, so I believe they are credible declarations. Therefore, we are concerned that there may be some dissonance in the distribution of money for regional operational programmes, and we also intervene as the Wielkopolska Parliamentary Team. This statement of mine today is also intended to serve, so to speak, the rational and fair distribution of money into regional development. The fact that the region is economically viable should not disqualify it in the allocation of European funds. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-24-sejm-26-1.u552	Thank you, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. The meeting shall be adjourned until 25 February 2021 at the latest. 9. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 23 min 54]]
