ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. [[Mr. Marshal, may I?]] I'm gonna read the formulas, and then I'm gonna give you the floor. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held in a traditional manner and using the means of a distance agreement. Mr. and Mrs. Senators in the Senate building, please check to see if you all have disabled applications to participate remotely. The Senators taking part in the meeting remotely, I inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If you have any problems, please contact us at the number you have previously received. There you go, Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I hope that at this meeting we will consider the Senate resolution expressing solidarity with American democrats in connection with what happened at the Capitol a few days ago, in connection with the unprecedented act of terror that took place in Washington. Let me remind you that the joint committees, the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Legislative Committee have just adopted this resolution. However, one more thing is missing in this resolution. Namely, there is a lack of commemoration of the victims, we lack our heads over those who died as a result of the assassination of American democracy. No matter who those who died as a result of this act of terror are. And that's five people, and I think that as a solidarity with the Americans... I believe that as those who drew their knowledge of democracy and brought to Poland the American model of democracy, as those who regard America as the leader of the democratic world, and as those who advocate an alliance and even for strengthening the alliance between Poland and the United States, because it largely determines our national security, we should celebrate the silence of those who died in these dramatic events. And that's what I'd like to ask your marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u3	Let's celebrate these people with a minute of silence. All rise. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. Thank you. Give me the results. [[Voice from the room: It's still going on...]] There's still a remote vote. A total of 71 senators voted. [[Voting No 3]] So we have a quorum. We proceed with the consideration of item five of the agenda: the act on promoting the generation of electricity in offshore wind farms. The text of the Act is contained in print No 302 and the Commission's reports In the letters No 302 A and 302 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, Senator Stanisław Gawłowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Extraordinary Commission for Climate Affairs on 4 January 2021 dealt with the Act on the promotion of electricity generation in offshore wind farms. As the Legislative Office writes in its opinion, the Act addresses the need for a rapid increase in the share of renewable energy sources in the national energy mix by introducing a support system and administrative improvements enabling a more efficient process of investment in wind farms. The basis for drawing up and implementing the law is the EU Directive, the Parliament and Council Directive of 11 December 2018. The adoption of this law will allow the level of RES participation in gross final energy consumption to be reached in Poland after 2020 at a level of not less than 15%. . The offshore wind farms are installations that allow the production of electricity from a renewable energy source, such as wind power, on a very large scale, and their development can also make a significant contribution to achieving the objectives set out in the National Energy and Climate Plan. Let me remind you that these goals until 2031 are 32% of RES. The law introduces a two-phase model of the support system, allowing a significant acceleration of the investment process in the field of offshore wind farms, planned to be built in the area of the Polish exclusive economic zone. The proposed law provides support for offshore wind power installations based on the economic concept of a bilateral differential contract, which is applied to the currently functioning RES support system, which has been tested in Polish economic realities. During the committee's work, the Legislative Bureau proposed that a total of 17 amendments be adopted, which also indicates that the law is not fully transposed, but after a long discussion at the committee meeting, none of the senators took over these amendments proposed by the Legislative Office. The committee therefore proposes to adopt a law without amendment and to direct it to the signature of the President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u5	Thank you, Senator. I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment, Senator Maria Koc, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to present a report from the joint meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment to the Act adopted by the Sejm on 17 December 2020 on the promotion of electricity generation in offshore wind farms. On 18 December 2020, the Senate Marshal sent this law to both committees. Following its examination on 5 January 2021, committees shall request the High Senate to adopt a law without amendment. Dear Senators! Mr. Marshal! As a country, we face a serious challenge of increasing the share of renewable energy sources in the national energy mix. This commitment is imposed on us both by the European Union's strategic documents, which we are a member of, as well as by the national strategy papers, such as the National Energy and Climate Plan 2021/2030. The offshore wind farms, which will be an impulse to create them, have the chance to play a key role in the energy transformation of Poland, to contribute to the increase in energy security of our country. First of all, they are intended to help in the process of moving away from coal. In 10 years' time, renewable energy will account for 32% the energy mix of our country, and in 2040 it will be 40%. The cost of this transformation is estimated at PLN 470 billion. Wind energy, including offshore wind farms, will play a key role in this transformation. The Act on Renewable Energy Sources of 2015 adopted such a law, ladies and gentlemen It is far from sufficient if we are thinking about the rapid development of wind energy, especially offshore wind farms. Therefore, Dear State, a law has been introduced on the promotion of electricity generation in offshore wind farms, which we are currently working on. As my previous speaker has already said, the Act introduces a two-phase model of wind support system at sea, based on the tried-out economic reality of the concept of a bilateral differential contract, which is currently used in the RES support system. Electricity generators in offshore wind farms, who will be allowed into the support system, will be entitled to cover the so-called. the negative balance, i.e. the difference between the market price of energy and the cost of its production at sea. In the first phase, the support scheme will be operational by the end of June 2021. Until then, investors will have the right to submit proposals. Well, applications will be submitted by the end of March, but this right will be granted by the end of June 2021. Support will be provided through an administrative decision, so if such a decision is taken by the end of June 2021, operators will be able to benefit from this support. This support will be provided through an administrative decision and the administrative decision will be issued by the President of the Energy Regulatory Office. In the second phase, support will be provided through auctions where projects will compete with each other in the price of the energy generated. The auction will win the offer at the lowest price. Such auctions will be carried out by the President of the Energy Regulatory Office. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add briefly that, in addition to the provision of support, the law also refers to the provisions of the investment process and simplifies the process and significantly shortens it. The Act also obliges manufacturers to stimulate the local supply chain, i.e. to cooperate with local entrepreneurs. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! A discussion took place during the meeting of the Joint Committees. During this discussion there were various questions, which were answered by Minister of Economy responsible for energy transformation, for the implementation of RES installations in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, in the discussion it was said that these investments, which will be co-financed, will be supported in this first phase, will be an investment for a total amount of PLN 160 billion. They will create a 5,9 GW capacity that will be available by 2030. By 2040 this will be the power of 11 GW from wind power plants. The first production of offshore wind power plants will take place at the turn of 2024 and 2025. There are five economic operators who are already advanced in this process and are likely to benefit from this first phase of support. These are PGE Baltica, Polenergia, Baltic Power and two other companies with foreign capital. The first three are companies with Polish capital. There have been allegations from senators of the Senate that the 2016 Act which introduced the so-called "Senator'. The 10H principle had a significant impact on the inhibition of land wind investment, i.e. much less started to arise these land-based wind power plants after this principle was introduced. This is the principle that the mast cannot be located closer than at a distance of ten times the height of the mast from the habitat, the inhabited habitats. Perhaps this was the case, but the introduction of this principle 10H, Ladies and gentlemen, was the answer of the Government of the United Right to social demands, expressed throughout Poland by people outraged by the fact that companies put windmills right next to their habitats, often within 0.5 km, and it happened that at a distance of less than 0.5 km. People protested for their health, their well-being. But it doesn't matter that at a time when such a mast was built near human habitat, these properties were losing value. After all, this is of great importance to people, especially since it is often the work of their entire life. This request has been taken into account, but this does not mean, Dear Members, that the green energy was not produced, that its installations were not created. As Minister of Profit has said, the Government of the United Right focuses on the development of distributed energy, which is obtained from various unconventional sources. So it's not just wind energy, it's also photovoltaics. Minister of Profit said that in 2015 we had 4 thousand prosumers, who had installed home photovoltaic installations and who produced 160 MG installed power. Now, thanks to my current program, we have 460 thousand prosumer home installations and thus produce 3.5 thousand MG installed power. There's a significant difference here. As far as wind energy is concerned, in 2016 these installations produced 4.2 GW and in 2020 more than 6 GW from wind energy. So there's progress here, too. But we think we need to bet on wind and sea energy because we have a lot of opportunities in this area. As the Minister said, the winds on the Baltic are quite large, they are stable, so wind farms will be very efficient, and the current they produce will flow continuously. These wind farms will be built in the Polish maritime zone, the Polish economic zone. These investments will also have a very significant impact on the development of many coastal and Baltic ports, because they will be service ports, such as Łeba or Ustka, but also many others. They can also have a very big impact on the development of cities such as Gdynia, because Gdynia can become such an investment hub, installation for wind farms that will be created. As I said, there are several economic operators that are already advanced when it comes to making investments. They already have environmental decisions. They will continue to invest, so that these farms will start producing electricity at the turn of 2024 and 2025. I think that's it, ladies and gentlemen. If there's any questions, I'll try to answer them. I would like to reiterate once again that the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment are requesting that the High Senate adopt a law without amendments. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u7	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I can't hear you. I have a question for Senator Blanket. You said that the development of wind energy would have a positive impact on ports due to renovations, etc. You mean the shipyards? There's been a mistake, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u8	Yeah, I'm sorry... [[To the shipyards?]] There's been a mistake, Mr... [[Voice from the hall: No, port!]] No, to ports, to ports. [[Ports?]] Yeah, yeah. [[But the yard, too, right?]] The shipyards, too, but rather the ports. That thread wasn't developed. I think if there are any questions... [[Okay, because repairs are being made in shipyards. Thank you very much.]] Mr. Marshal, I think if there are any specific questions on this issue, then Mr. Minister Gains will be happy to answer them. It was signalled that this would affect the development of ports, but I understand that also shipyards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u9	Good. You're the minister of profit who's gonna answer right away, aren't you? [[Voice from the room: No...]] In a minute. [[Voice from the Chamber: There is a question for the rapporteur...]] To the rapporteur. But which one? Senator Stanisław Lamczyk is asking a question from room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u10	Thank you very much. I have a question for the rapporteurs. Madam President said that 5 entities are ready to invest, and they are primarily State Treasury companies, as well as Energa. So I have a question for you. It is known that in the first phase, so to speak, there will be a technological thought not ours, but the Western one, the potential of Polish technical thought has not been exploited here. I would like to know with whom these entities of the State Treasury have worked, what will be the distribution of shares and who in the first phase, in connection with these concessions at 6 GW, colloquially speaking, will drink cream.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u11	Who of your rapporteurs can answer this question? There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u12	I'll be brief because we haven't talked about this in detail. At least I do not recall an in-depth discussion on this at the joint committee meeting, so I think that this question should also be addressed to the Minister. There are five companies that, as I said, are already advanced in the construction of wind farms, but as the Minister said, there are another 100 companies. The State may indicate them, the Ministry of Development or the Climate Ministry may indicate them. The point is, these are companies that have the potential to participate in this investment process as well. These are Polish companies, and the government of the United Right, the Polish state, is very interested in ensuring that as many Polish capital as possible is involved in these investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u13	Thank you, Senator. Senator Gawłowski wants to answer that question, right? [[Yes, of course.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! The offshore investment process, i.e. windmills at sea, began in Poland in 2011. That's the first time they've been assigned and assigned... I will use the word 'concessions', but it was really localization decisions regarding the location of projects connected with the construction of wind farms. And this process included activities that dealt with environmental, geological research. It's been going on for many, many years. Unfortunately, then for various reasons, I will still speak as Senator, in my opinion, has been stopped. It was not as if acceptance, climate for the development of renewable energy sources in Poland after 2015, 2016. And this is due to documents, which were among others. in the Senate, but also in the Seym in the previous term adopted. This was a revision of the RES Act, which was one of the first decisions taken in December 2015. That's the 10H rule that the senator was talking about. This also caused that some companies that started investing in the industry in Poland did not have the chance to be a partner in the implementation of these investments. It is a company founded in Szczecin on the basis of one of the shipyards, the shipyard of This company probably went bankrupt two years ago because it didn't get those big orders she was hoping for about that part of the Baltic. Of course, in Poland many elements are produced, such as towers, wings, propellers to the turbine itself, various components, but this heart is not produced, which is the nucleus. turbines, because it's still the good that the biggest manufacturers protect with patents. But still, today, this development of renewable energy on land creates thousands of new jobs. Of course, these farms, which are created on land, are based on documents that were obtained before the 10H rule came into force, i.e. in relation to spatial planning, etc., because when decisions were made, this principle did not stop the implementation of these projects, although the really low price and the change in the energy purchase system from RES caused that some of these companies either went bankrupt or sold their projects to the big buyers. These great buyers are mainly State Treasury companies operating in the energy sector. This caused some comasation, took away citizens, Poles who wanted to invest in individual wind turbines, the possibility of carrying out these projects. And I'm going to say something perversely, although the Minister should be pleased to see it through the prism of this bill. Although one swallow of spring does not do, I am glad that there is no longer a Ministry of Energy, because the Ministry of Energy was the main Ministry blocking the development of RES in recent years in Poland. I am pleased and hope that this change, this law, will actually give the chance to develop RES in its entirety, also in terms of manufacturing components, products and components for RES, and that this will actually contribute to the change in power generation in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u15	Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Climate and Environment has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Do you wish to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneus will gain: Mr. Marshal...]] If I did, I'd invite you here... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneus Gains: Thank you very much.]] ...because I'm sure there'll be questions, and it's about having an interaction with the room. [[Voice from the room: You can't see anyone who wants to ask questions.]] But if you prefer it there, go ahead.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am honored to be able to attend the Senate speaker, so thank you very much for inviting me to speak. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to thank the Senate committees, both the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs and Mr President, Senator Stanisław Gawłowski and Senator Maria Koc, Chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, as well as the Senators of the Environment Committee for their excellent cooperation during the process of this bill. The bill on the promotion of electricity generation in offshore wind farms is not only an energy project, as the rapporteur, the senators, Senator Maria Koc and Senator Stanisław Gawłowski presented it perfectly and in detail. I will not repeat these arguments. This bill is the implementation of strategic documents in the field of climate and energy policy of the Republic of Poland, such as the National Energy and Climate Plan, such as the project of Poland's Energy Policy until 2040. It is also fulfilling our commitments as a Member State of the European Union in terms of the RES target that we should achieve after 2020 in the 2030 horizon. But above all, And here I want to present this to all the senators, but also to the public, this is an economic project. More, it's a civilization project. The development of offshore wind energy, the construction of large power generation capacity in the Polish economic zone of the Baltic Sea will create over 77 thousand new jobs in the perspective of several years, I hope that well paid jobs. At the same time, we are taking steps to develop and sign a Polish sectoral agreement with industry representatives, with market stakeholders focused on industry organizations such as the Polish Wind Energy Association, the Polish Wind Energy Society, like Pomerania Employers, as well as other institutions such as the Marshal's Office of the Pomeranian Voivodeship or representatives of the world of science, i.e. universities, which are working to improve technologies that will become Polish specialty. Our goal is to maximise the participation of Polish entrepreneurs in the whole value chain, in the supply chain of both equipment, components that will be installed in the framework of construction of offshore wind farms as well as services, i.e. geological services, construction, geodetic services, legal services, consulting services. Ladies and gentlemen, we are building a new, large sector of the economy. Maritime wind energy is today a priority for all European countries that have access to the sea and which have planned the development of this sector of the economy in their energy strategies. Today, the world leader in offshore wind energy is Britain. Around the world, the installed power is slightly above 30 GW, and Britain today generates power at more than 10 GW, i.e. 1/3 of all offshore wind power installations in the world. In addition, of course, the Federal Republic of Germany, Denmark, Norway, as far as Europe is concerned. And in the world, China is one of the tycoons. Other countries that have access to the coastline, oceans and seas also carry out such projects or prepare them. What's worth pointing out? Poland has become a leader in the Baltic Sea basin. The summit of the Baltic Sea countries took place in Szczecin on 30 September last year. At the invitation of Mr Michal Kurtyki, Minister of Climate, his counterparts in the rank of climate ministers, the environment, took part in a conference which ended with the signing of the so-called. the Baltic Declaration for the development of offshore wind energy. Poland has a direct huge potential for the development of this energy, but also wants to coordinate the development of these projects in other countries of the Baltic Sea basin. Turning to our ground, answering in some sense the statements of the honourable senators, Senator Stanisław Lamczyk, Senator Stanisław Gawłowski, and also the questions of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, I would like to say that both Polish ports and Polish shipyards are facing a historic opportunity. I can say that the construction of the installation ship, so-called. jack-up, which costs more than PLN 1.5 billion, is a very good business, because renting such a ship This is one of the largest ships in the world as far as the size of the ships is concerned. It costs over PLN 1 million per day. It's just a perfect business. I think that it is precisely the implementation of such units in Polish shipyards, later the implementation of smaller units, the construction of smaller units, service ships, which in the first phase, by 2030, we need about 120... Here you have a certain picture of how a large package of orders opens before Polish shipyards, in front of Polish ports, also in the field of transhipments and later maintenance, maintenance of these devices. It's also a huge investment in taking power to land, energy cables, special energy cables, which will be brought to special stations after the sea floor, and then this power will be transferred to land. Next: Expansion of the power grid. Polish Power Grids SA, our national energy transmission operator, has prepared a plan for the expansion of energy networks by 2030. This plan was accepted by the President of the Energy Regulatory Office on 30 June. r. This plan is about to develop energy networks mainly in northern Poland, not only for offshore wind energy, also for the planned construction of a nuclear power plant in Pomerania. This is, of course, the second half of the 1920s, the beginning of the 1930s. In any case, these investments will be planned in the future of the current decade. As Senator Maria Koc has presented perfectly, the value of all investments within this chain of projects is... Here was the sum of 160 billion. Let's say it's between 130 and 160 billion zlotys. We would like at least half of this value to power the Polish economic area through the participation of Polish entrepreneurs. And here good information for the senators as well as for the public: already today more than 100 Polish companies are working in the world for offshore wind energy. These are companies producing, among others. propellers for wind power plants, generating towers, cables, trafostations, actually every element, except for turbines generating electric current. As has been said before, there are three global tycoons in the world today who produce wind turbines, huge, monumental installations. We want one of these world tycoons to make an investment in Poland in the construction of a wind turbine factory, not only for the needs of the Polish offshore wind energy, but also for projects carried out by all countries from the Baltic Sea basin. For example, small Estonia plans to build an installation with an installed capacity of 23 GW. We're taking this cautiously, that is. we want this project to succeed and to carry out projects with a capacity of 5.9 GW by 2030, and by 2040 though I assume it will be faster, because it will already be the built infrastructure, there will also be some mechanisms, there will be know-how, competence, organization, logistics, port facilities, so I assume that this could be the beginning or the last half of the 1930s, i.e. until 2034 or 2035. With a power of 11 GW. Experts, experts say that our potential in the Polish economic zone of the Baltic Sea exceeds 20 GW of power and we can achieve this goal, and the supplier or manufacturer of turbines, who will build a factory, hopefully will be able to power all projects in the Baltic Sea basin. It is also worth referring to the questions or suggestions presented by Senator Lamczyk and Senator Gawłowski in your speeches. Namely, the question of Senator Lamczyk about the Polish technical thought and the words that these are not Polish technologies now... It's hard to agree with that. Well, ladies and gentlemen, these are global technologies. In Poland we have I wouldn't want to name names so it wouldn't be a promotion of individual companies. Really very advanced companies, you can even say that world leaders in the production of elements of offshore wind farms, which function perfectly and deliver these products to the German market, to the British market, to the Dutch or Danish market. It is high time they started to deliver them for Polish projects carried out in the Polish Baltic zone. The only issue that is not available to us, because it is simply that such projects have never been implemented in Poland before, are wind turbines that I mentioned before. But we are seeking cooperation, to invite one of the global tycoons who mastered this technology as a market leader to Poland. Senator Stanisław Gawłowski also mentioned some omissions, as it were, incriminating the Government of the United Right, among others. that ST3 had fallen. Well, Mr. Senator, ladies and gentlemen, I was in Szczecin, in Świnoujście, in the Szczecin-Świnoujście port complex, I visited the assets managed today by the receiver of the bankruptcy of ST3 and I must say that this investment, the implementation of this investment took place, well, with a number of errors, business errors, and it is difficult to assign any responsibility to the party of the Government of Law and Justice, the Government of the United Right. I'll also say that this type of installation The largest crane with the largest load capacity, with the largest dimensions, not only in Poland, but throughout the Baltic Sea basin, was built in Szczecin, where the port channel has a depth of 6 m and where a jack-up ship cannot influence, which needs a port channel with a depth of at least 13.5 m and preferably 16 m. So the very decision to locate this investment in this place was, in my opinion, misplaced. In addition, other management and financing issues in this company have led to a bad financial situation and bankruptcy. This does not mean that this property, which today is available to the bankruptcy syndicate, cannot be used for the purposes of offshore wind power construction. Of course, the syndicate announces a tender, this property can be purchased and projects can be carried out there, which can be carried out in this location and for the benefit of the offshore wind farms. These can be, for example, towers or metal structures, various types of installations that can be produced there using this infrastructure. The hall itself is very impressive. High and equipped with a crane. I think there will definitely be a buyer who, on a sound economic basis, will be able to use this infrastructure. As for the Ministry of Energy, I just want to say that there was no such ministry, there was the Ministry of Energy. It's like, if we respect someone and want to call them by name or by name, then I think we need to be precise. As for the Ministry of Energy and Minister Krzysztof Tchórzewski, I would like to thank you very warmly from this point on, because it was Minister Krzysztof Tchórzewski who started this way, which we are finishing today in the Senate of the Republic of Poland. It was he who started work on the bill on promoting electricity generation in offshore wind farms in mid- 2019. Later, after the parliamentary elections, after the changes related to the constitution of the new Council of Ministers, the bill was sent to the Ministry of State Assets under the authority of the Minister, Deputy Prime Minister Jacek Sasin. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas was also responsible for the public consultation at that time in January 2020. I also thank the Minister for his excellent cooperation on this project. And since the end of February, this competence in legislation, in the area of energy regulation, also in renewable energy, in offshore wind energy, has been transferred to the Minister of Climate Affairs. And it is a great honor for me that as Deputy Minister and Representative of the Government for Renewable Energy, I was able to deal with this project at a later stage of legislative work, parliamentary work. Ladies and gentlemen, in order not to extend, let me just say that I really am very grateful to all the senators, especially the committees that worked directly on this project, for the fact that very substantively, constructively, the senators have come to this project, that it has been evaluated by three committees to adopt it without amendments. We wait... the entire market, you can say, is waiting for this bill to come into force. It is such a constitution for offshore wind energy in Poland, which will allow the start of the investment process, to realize the first projects from which the current will flow to the Polish economic area, to individual customers, to industrial customers. And what's important It is essential that I add this to all the world, Australia, Japan, South Korea, the United States, but also in the most technologically advanced countries of Western Europe offshore wind energy projects are correlated with the production of hydrogen, with the production of so-called. green hydrogen, which will build a new sector of the economy as fuel for the future. It's also very important information. When we add new components to what I said earlier about new projects, new technologies, it will be a project. I won't hesitate to use that term. Not only energy, not just economic, but even a project of civilizational importance. I ask the High House kindly to accept this bill. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u17	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? We already have senators enrolled to ask questions. Senator Kazimierz Klein. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u18	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I am very pleased that this bill is prepared, and thank you, Minister, for making the effort to prepare this law. You probably started working on this law in 2019 and finally managed to bring it to such a happy finale. But honesty orders us to say that we've lost our last five years on the development of wind farms at sea. And honesty requires you to tell the truth here, to show it all, because all these location decisions and so on... all this effort was put into it in the days of the previous government. Moreover, it took place later, and before 2015, and after 2015, large international conferences with the participation of all interested parties in Poland, including companies, huge, where they wanted to bring about the signing of relevant agreements, etc., and none of these conferences came from the government, despite previous promises, declarations, even the heads of departments were forbidden to come to these meetings. But, as I say, I'm glad that this difficult time is over and that we're going in the right direction now. And I'd like to ask the Minister, because this is also a very important matter... Besides, the Minister even said now that ships in Szczecin, 16 m dive, etc... Yeah, well, you have to be specific about that, too... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: One minute.]] The largest ships that can affect the Baltic Sea are ships below 16 m, and that's actually exceptional, because 15,5 m is the maximum depth of the strait... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, question.]] The question I'm asking right now is... And, and according to the research of the Maritime Institute for the time being, the only port in Poland that is ready to receive offshore ships... no, associated with offshore ships, is the port in Gdańsk, not even Gdynia and not Świnoujście. It's in the development of the Marine Institute a few years ago. But we leave it on the side. And now the question is: how many maritime offices have prepared to make especially these small ports of the Polish Coast, e.g. Mouth or Head Because the Łeba is shown as the first small service port, they were prepared or in the near future were prepared to operate offshore wind farms to receive maintenance ships, etc.. Has any financial program been prepared to modernise these ports? Today, at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets, we adopted an amendment on measures for maritime authorities to prepare the first stage of modernisation, to prepare these ports. So... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, please... One minute...]] ...what action has been taken on this matter? And are these consultations that were held before 2015 with fishermen on the location of offshore wind farms still up to date, or will this procedure need to be restarted? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u19	Thank you very much. Before the Minister answers... Please: one minute to ask the question. That's the Senate rule. You're welcome... I don't want to turn your microphones off. Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u20	Thank you very much. All arrangements, consultations in the field of maritime affairs, i.e. fisheries, fishing, trade routes, including those relating to defence issues that were carried out earlier in previous years, but above all in the course of public consultations on the draft law, inter-ministerial arrangements with all ministries I'll remind you that this is a government project. Of course they apply, they remain in force, there is no need to go back to these arrangements. However, I do not agree with the senator's statement that we have lost five years because, how can you easily check, reaching the Internet, everywhere in the world, among others. in the United States, South Korea, China and Western Europe, the implementation of these projects takes at least 5 years in the sense of preparation before the installation process begins, the construction of offshore farms at sea. These are primarily localization decisions, which, as Senator Gawłowski rightly pointed out, were issued in 2011, 2012 and later in 2013. But these are decisions issued under the Law on Maritime Areas of the Republic of Poland Such, you can say, preliminary localization decisions, which later require carrying out environmental studies, geological studies, obtaining environmental decisions and then, of course, the whole process related to building permits. These processes everywhere, not only in Poland ♪ Like I said ♪ It lasts for 5 years and more. During this period, these preparatory studies were carried out. So the thesis about losing five years isn't entitled. I encourage you to contact investors themselves, developers who are preparing these projects So that the senators also have full knowledge not only from the transmission by the government. About the senator's question about small service ports... They will be of great importance in the years to come, especially after 2025 or the beginning of 2025, when, as I said, several dozen It would be advisable for about 100 service ships to work permanently to service the farms that have been in service for at least 25 years during the period of public aid support. And yes, virtually every port can get its chance. And Władysławowo, and Łeba, and Ustka, and Kolobrzeg have here, I think, a great potential to carry out this service of wind farms. The port in Darłów is a bit worse than that, although it is not excluded. As we know, there is a military area nearby and hence some restrictions, but I think it is a question of the future, research, logistics, arrangements with the Ministry of National Defence regarding the possibility of using this port or building a new port in the future, in the late 20's or the second half of the 20's, using for this purpose. These are questions that we are unable to answer today. And when I answer questions about funding, I'm going to say that we have two types of ports. There are communalized ports such as the Ustko port And here, of course, managers make investment decisions and have access to finance, especially European funds. We are in the budgetary perspective of the new budget of the European Union, including the National Plan for Reconstruction, which contributes huge European funds to the Polish economic area, which were agreed at the European Union summit by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. I am convinced that environmental projects, innovative, developing industries and new technologies such as offshore wind energy, such as port facilities, such as logistics, will be largely addressed by these measures. As far as maritime authorities are concerned, they administer small ports that do not currently have the conditions for even service ships to operate there. Therefore, it is a question of preparing these investments, but certainly maritime authorities will also have access to European funds for these key investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u21	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Richard Bober from room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have a question about annex 2 to this bill. Well, the Minister of Transport and Maritime Affairs on 8 February 2013 when he invited all companies to submit offers in this area, to work related... no, he designated an area. On 20 November 2020, when the draft law entered the Sejm, the Marshal of the Sejm, it was in line with that notice and on 27 November 2020 this area was restricted. As far as this remaining area is concerned, other companies have also applied... These are companies that have carried out work on geodetic and institutional issues, as well as environmental impacts. And by reducing this area, they've been somehow shut down. According to the rule that... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, I would very much like to ask you a question.]] I speak very briefly, Mrs. Marshal. I'm almost done. In accordance with the principle that the rules do not change in the course of the game, together with Senator Jan Filip Libicki, Krzysztof Kwiatkowski and Wadi Tyszkiewicz, I submit an amendment to restore the original record, consistent with... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, this is not the moment. It's question time.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] Thank you. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Are you asking a question to the Minister?]] In the beginning, I asked the question, which shows that the area has been changed. He is now incompatible with the 2013 notice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u23	Good. Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u24	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! High Izbo! What I'm trying to say is there's a misunderstanding here. The Minister hasn't changed the location decision. The area has been adapted to the investment opportunities. This is not to the detriment of investors. The announcement wasn't a rule of law. It will have to be based on the provisions of the law which will enter into force after the adoption of the law by the High House. I would like to say that we are at the stage of the adoption of a maritime spatial planning plan. This will happen in perspective, you can say, the first quarter of this year. Then new opportunities will be opened for investors to submit localization proposals. This announcement was just an announcement on the possibility of submitting applications. Annex 2 is in accordance with final decisions issued. I do not know whether here Mr. Senator and Mr. Senators, on behalf of whom Mr. Senator spoke, were deliberately misled by someone, but I assure you that no violation of the law or infringement of a decision previously issued to the investor has occurred, has not occurred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u25	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Stanisław Lamczyk, room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u26	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister mentioned green water. I know the Minister is working on the hydrogen bill. I have a question: when will this bill enter into the procession? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-StaneckaDaniel: State, please calm down.]] I also have a second question. What about the offshore bill? The one that was prepared by the Ministry of Maritime Affairs is unacceptable. The third question is the question about the State Treasury company. I know that ENEA has dealt with Spain, and PGE has dealt with the Danes. Do Polish companies still have the control package and have all these companies received connection agreements to the Polish energy network?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u27	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u28	To answer the first question about hydrogen, I'm going to say that on December 30, Ub. As the Ministry of Climate and Environment, we received an entry in the Polish hydrogen strategy or a project of Polish hydrogen strategy on the list of legislative and programme works of the Council of Ministers. A public consultation on this strategic document will be announced this week. In parallel, we are working, Mr. Senator, on the Polish hydrogen agreement, on the sectoral agreement of companies in the area of these technologies. I believe that by mid-year or the second quarter of this year such a sectoral agreement will be signed. The strategic goal we set ourselves is to maximise the participation of Polish companies, Polish entrepreneurs, using Polish intellectual property, Polish inventions. These are the most advanced technologies in the world or some of the most advanced technologies in the world, as evidenced also by the legal activities of competition, ineffective, in relation to Polish entities which have patents and can legitimize themselves with the right to data about inventions. We would like to lead to the commercialisation of these Polish technologies, to their introduction into mass production and use by Polish companies. This is supported by this initiative concerning the development, signing and implementation of the Polish sectoral agreement. In parallel, we are working on the hydrogen law, which will define hydrogen as fuel, as a substance that can feed not only vehicles, but also energy, heating, industrial technologies in many areas, in various industrial technologies, and in the future will also be possible for general use in households. This is a process that takes place in parallel with work in the European Commission. I think speeding it up would be unfavorable. We work in the framework of the European Partnership, within the European Clean Hydrogen Alliance, as well as in discussions at European Union level on the work on the European hydrogen strategy. We would like this process to move faster, but, what needs to be said, not only in Poland, but also in Western Europe and everywhere in the world today we notice some technological barriers related to the price of green hydrogen production. I think we should use this hydrogen, which is available in Poland, to build a supply chain, to build competences, to build a market on the demand side. And that's what this is all about. As for the area law that you asked about and which the Ministry of Maritime Affairs was supposed to present, I honestly do not know what is going on, because the only law on offshore wind policy is the law that I have the honour and pleasure of presenting to the High House today. I have no information on the bill that was prepared and consulted by the Ministry of Maritime Affairs. I don't know if there was another question... [[Voice from the room: No, no.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u29	But there will be others, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneus Gains: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. I'd like to ask Senator Krzysztof Mroz's question remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u30	Mrs. Marshal, Minister... Can you hear me? [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Please step closer to the microphone because you can't hear very well.]] Can you hear me right now, or can you still... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: That's better.]] Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'd really ask the marshal to let me have a little more than a minute, because... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stank: Mr. Senator, now you can hear less. Step closer to the microphone, please.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Can you hear it now? [[That's how it goes remotely...]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Better now, but speak up, Mr. Senator.]] Good. I have three questions for the Minister. The first question is this. Different countries E.g. The United Kingdom, Denmark, has different types of solutions in this regard. And so on. The cost of connecting to the station, which will receive this energy, the transmission cable between the windmill and the land... The cost of these devices often reaches 40, 50 or 60%. the whole investment. In different countries these costs are attributed to different costs: sometimes the State finances them, sometimes it is the total cost of the investor, and sometimes some network companies cover the costs or co-finance them. What will it look like in Poland? Who will cover the costs of this connection to land and then bring it into the energy system? That's the first question. The second question is the following. It is known that the further from the source of electricity to the customers, the greater the losses are. What are the anticipated losses on this offshore energy supply from the Baltic Sea? And the third question, which already concerns statutory provisions. In this bill, how did the professionals get my attention? 'Cause I'm not some big expert on that, my knowledge is very little. It was as if the concept of an energy machine was confused with the concept of an energy device. The experts are surprised. The power machine is a turbine, generator or gearbox, and the power unit is a pole, some ladders and these support devices. However, the law in its vocabulary does not contain the wording of an energy machine, but defines everything as an energy device. Well, here are the professionals who see this difference in nomenclature, who think that... [[Voice from the room: One minute.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: But three questions are, Mr. Senator.]] ...makes all kinds of fuss. Has this problem ever been Somewhere in the legislative process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u31	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u32	Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Senator, when it comes to Poland, we have to say that in the bill we predicted that the costs of taking power to land are borne by the investor, that is, the developer. As part of the implementation of the offshore wind farm project, it will also build an energy connection to the electricity supply to the national electricity system. In the Act we also provided for the right of repurchase and the right of initial purchase, were equipped with this right of Polish Electro-energy Networks, so that this strategic energy infrastructure in case the developer wants to sell it could be purchased and incorporated into the Polish electricity system in the rule of the Polish Electro-Energy Networks. There were different models planned in the world. Initially, these investments were carried out in such a way that investors covered these costs and later in many Member States of the European Union the construction of infrastructure took place by the state. We decided in the first phase of the implementation of these projects on the model in which investors make these connections, and perhaps later, in the next phase, the State will implement these investments in power extraction. At the moment, in the Act we are betting that the projects will be carried out and financed by investors. With regard to electricity transmission costs I think these costs don't differ from what's on land. So... These are technical issues. I find it difficult for you to answer in detail here at the moment, unless... it's just a technique. I'll prepare the information in writing for the senator, but I'm not in a position to answer that right now. As for the energy machine and the energy equipment... Dear Senator, this is a draft law which has exceptionally been subject to two public consultations, a very long one, both in the first half of 2020 and in the second half of 2020 and inter-ministerial agreements. The participant of all these consultations was the national system operator, i.e. PSE SA, the participants were Polish energy distribution companies, also the Energy Regulatory Office and all institutions, which professionally, are engaged in energy engineering in Poland. I am therefore convinced that these agreements... that the law contains an appropriate definition, because they did not raise any doubts at the final stage of the legislative process. I would like to remind you that we have also had an opinion on the energy security of the country by institutions which are legally responsible for such security, and such comments have not been notified to us. In addition, it turns out that the Act does not use the concept of an energy machine or an energy device. I don't know where the senator got this information, who of the experts on whom the senator refers, gave such suggestions, but I encourage you to read directly the contents of the bill. Definitions are consistent, also with the Energy Law, and there is no doubt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u33	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask the senator because the minister said he could prepare something in writing. Is the senator expecting such an answer? [[I wasn't asking about the costs, I was asking about the energy losses that are expected...]] Senator, I can't hear you right now. [[Hello, hello?]] More now. [[I wasn't asking about the costs, I was asking about the losses, what the expected energy losses were.]] But do you expect an answer in writing?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u34	If the Minister wishes... I'm aware, sir, of the fact that he's not some kind of energyist, but he's probably able to get that kind of information from professionals.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u35	Yes, Mr. Senator, I declare that this is the answer I will give. At the moment, as such projects do not exist in the Polish economic zone of the Baltic, such data is unknown, but we will get information for economic areas such as the UK, Germany or the Netherlands and I will present this information to the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u36	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u37	In the context of the amendment that Senator Bober referred to, I would like to say that I thank you for the information of the Minister and that, following the information of the President of the Climate Committee, that there will be a legislative initiative in this area, I will not sign this amendment. And I have two questions for the Minister. You called this document the constitution of Polish wind energy, and I am very happy about it, because what I would like to say is an indication that it is a broad document. But, while appreciating the Minister's commitment and knowledge of this issue, I would like to ask you about a key document, which is the constitution of all renewable energy and also of all energy. So I would like to ask, at what stage is the work on Polish energy policy, whether by 2030, whether by 2040 or 2050, depending on what you are preparing. At what stage... Because, in fact, it will be crucial for the development of offshore wind farms to implement auctions for such projects. Therefore, there is a question of the declarations on the organisation of the offshore auction by the Ministry and in general the auctions you plan to support wind energy investors and what opportunities they have this year. Can we expect any declarations from the government here? I would also like to get answers to these questions in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u38	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u39	Thank you, senator, for that question. Indeed, I agree that Poland's energy policy until 2040 is a fundamental, strategic document, which should already be a document in force. I will immediately inform you that the document will soon be presented as a draft in the application for inclusion in the list of legislative and programme works of the Council of Ministers. We're after multiples. - the multi-month work related to the updating of the draft energy policy of Poland 2040, we are following cross-border consultations which were carried out at the request of Austria. This has also delayed work on the process of the Council of Ministers on this document. In addition, we must say that we must also take into account, we must and we want to take into account the voices of the various social, professional environments. As we know, the senators are also observing a public consultation with the coalition unions in Upper Silesia. I think that the implementation of energy transformation in Poland should take place in consensus, in agreement with the public for planned changes, which we want to introduce for the sake of the Polish economy, for the competitiveness of Polish companies. But we also want to protect the weakest, these professional groups, social groups, which for decades after the Second World War were connected with building the Polish economy on the basis of natural resources of hard coal, brown coal. This quality, fair transformation is one of the pillars of Poland's energy policy project. A fair transition must take place taking into account the protection of entire professional groups, social groups or even regions that have worked in this sector for many years before, as I said, in this sector of the economy. I think that, while respecting financial expenditure... here such a formulation for specialists, for experts: orphaned costs, i.e. the cost of carrying out large projects. We would not want these costs to arise so that new installations will be built, which will then, for some economic reasons, be excluded. Thus, new coal blocks, such as the first and second block in Opole or the Jaworzno block put into service in November last year, for many years as part of the power market mechanism will function for the sake of the Polish electricity system. It's about the flexibility of these power sources, which is also extremely important. As far as the energy policy of Poland is concerned, it is difficult for me at the moment to declare deadlines, but I hope, Mr Senator, that in a few months' time, as far as April, May, this policy as a strategic document will be adopted by a resolution of the Council of Ministers. With regard to the auction for offshore wind projects in the Act, we have prepared 2 phases of public aid support. The first phase is the one which will end on 30 June this year in the decision of the President of the Energy Regulatory Office, but, of course, the projects which these decisions will receive in terms of the price of 1 MWh produced in such a project, in such an installation, will be carried out in a perspective until 2030. I believe that for the previous years, especially for the years 2025, 2026 and 2027, the investment summit will be held in the Polish Baltic Economic Zone. For 2025 and 2027, we anticipated 2 auctions for offshore wind projects. As I said earlier, the preparation of these projects takes several years, at least 5 years, and therefore the first auction is planned for 2025. The point is that such projects could be prepared for the stages, for the phase in which they could be launched in auction for offshore wind farms. I may yet talk about a difference, because some people are asking why there is an administrative mode of granting public aid at the moment, and why not immediately a competitive mechanism in the form of auctions. Well, ladies and gentlemen, there are so-called auctions. the cut-off mechanism, i.e. the weakest bid or the worst bid, must be rejected to win the best bid. Then, if we were to start, start with the auction, we'd have to have one project or 2, at least 2, or maybe more projects to reject. Our goal is to maximise this capacity installed by 2030. Today, among those projects that have environmental permits, of course also locational, geological research, there are five of the most advanced projects. That's what Senator Maria Koc was talking about in her speech, and I can only recall the names of these developers, these investors. These are mainly Polish companies of the State Treasury, PGE Baltica from the PGE group, Baltic Power from the Orlen group, it is a private Polish company Polenergia. These are the three largest projects, and there are 2 smaller ones with foreign capital. These are RWE and Ocean Winds, companies that have 0.7 in total. GW power at 5.9. So please note that 5.2 GW is thanks to Polish projects, Polish companies. They invited to implement these investments within the framework of the economic partnership, signing agreements with foreign partners, companies that already have similar projects in their account in the world. Everything is going to gain competence to gain experience and, I think, in the future after 2030, self-fulfil such projects, not only in the Polish economic area, but I believe that deeply. Also for other countries in the Baltic Sea basin, as well as other countries with access to the sea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u40	Thank you very much. Senator Janusz Gromek's question, please. Room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u41	Actually, I'm not gonna be expecting an answer anymore because I wanted to ask you, what's it like with Central Pomerania ports? Here the Minister replied and mentioned among others. Kolobrzeg. Mr. Senator Kleina. Unfortunately, he forgot about it when he said there were only two ports in the Middle Pomerania. You only mentioned Darłowo and Ustka, but there is also Kolobrzeg, who is a large port and very involved. Thank you very much. So I don't expect an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u42	Thank you very much. Senator Wojciech Piecha. Room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u43	Minister, I have two brief questions. Is there a planned system of energy storage facilities for the storage of energy in time... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, could you get closer to the microphone?]] Yes. Minister, is there a planned system of storage facilities for the power plant, e.g. Pump peaks, for energy storage during its overproduction in windy weather? That's the first question. Second question. We have 2 programmes: one concerns offshore wind energy by 2040, which involves investment expenditure on building 11 GW of power of PLN 130 billion, and the other concerns nuclear energy, which we are also planning to build. The investment cost of this second programme is PLN 150 billion, which will give us 9 GW of power. Is there funding for both of these projects? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u44	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u45	Thank you very much. Energy storage is, you might say, the future of energy. This is related to the stability of the electricity system. Today, world technologies prefer smaller storage units, which also meet the cumulative possibilities without overheating these storage units. But technology is being developed. By the way, I will inform the High House and, by the way, the public, that in the Ministry of Climate and Environment, we are working on an innovative and perhaps even breakthrough solution of the four energy units, through which we aim for full regulation of renewable energy sources. It's a hybrid installation of renewable energy sources, connected to the energy warehouse that you asked the senator about. The inverter, which spins the whole installation, brings power to the network in one place. As we predict, this will also result in a team of experts research, a team of scientists that in such a renewable energy plant we will be able to generate voltage to the grid at 60% the operation of this installation within a year, i.e. 5,000 256 hours, which is comparable to the results of coal blocks. I hope this project succeeds. We will, of course, perfect it. I will keep you informed of the future of this concept, which is commonly referred to as the RES 4.0 system. I think that in distributed energy it can have a huge impact on raising the level of energy security in our country, increasing the level of stability of the electricity system as such. As far as pumped power plants are concerned, we also assume that we can use them as energy storage facilities as much as possible. Unfortunately, there are no such reservoirs in Pomerania. Well, there are few possibilities for applying the difference in the level of the water pane, such possibilities are limited, but for what I said earlier, we are preparing a Polish hydrogen strategy. We've got to use it. near the coast, in Mogilno Caverns that could be adapted to hydrogen storage. Such projects are analysed, such concepts are being developed. Hydrogen, when it comes to energy storage, is an excellent medium for this. I think that technological progress in the future will give us the opportunity to store the surplus energy that the senator asked about and which will be produced in offshore wind farms. As regards investments in offshore wind energy, these are projects financed by investors themselves, that is simply by capital companies, which will benefit from commercial financing from banks. I've been informed that this funding is provided. These are investments with a high rate of return, desirable from the point of view of the European Union's climate and energy policy, as well as our country. You could say that financing companies, financing institutions, or banks but not only them, there are also other international institutions active in the financing of such large projects They stand in line because they are, as I said, projects with a high rate of return, profitable projects. As for nuclear energy, this is a separate topic to be devoted to a separate conference. As you know from the press reports, Poland has signed a preliminary cooperation agreement in this area with representatives of US companies, but we also do not exclude the participation of other economic operators. It must certainly be said that the nuclear energy project must take into account the entire lifetime of such a power plant. This is not just a question of building a nuclear power plant, because it is equally important to supply nuclear fuel that will be needed for several decades, for at least 80 years of operation of such an entity. It is also important to deal with the dismantling of such an installation after its lifetime. Such an agreement, a strategic agreement, a long-term agreement, entails great responsibility, but also great financial needs. As far as funding is concerned, I cannot give you binding answers. Negotiations are ongoing, although the Polish energy strategy until 2040, PEP 2040, assumes the share of nuclear energy at a power level of 6 and 9 GW. The first block is to be put into service in 2033. And as far as my information is concerned, the project is being carried out on a timely basis. Further steps will be taken in the coming years. The construction will take place in 2026. I think that by then, all of this information, especially the financial information that you've been asking the senator, will be available and known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u46	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u47	Thank you very much. I, Minister, would ask questions about the specifics that citizens are asking me. Well, tell me how many such investments are planned in the coastline between Władysławów and the Head. Does the government have any knowledge of this? And at what distance they will be located from the coastline, i.e. Will they be visible from the beach? This whole belt of the Polish coast is a very attractive area, as you know, recreational and leisure. And I'm asking this question unjustly, because I remember perfectly well myself, as in the previous decade. I am talking about the end of 2010, or maybe a little earlier there were huge protests, because there was an initiative to build such a wind farm just at the height of Dębek, at a very close distance from the pumping and pumping plant in Żarnowiec. And it triggered huge social emotions, discussions. Eventually, they pulled out of this project. But, as I understand it, there is a different situation here, because the distances to such farms will be much greater. However, I would ask the Minister to give a clear and precise answer on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u48	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u49	Thank you very much, senator, for that question. The projects will be implemented, as I said before. This is 5 investment projects with a total capacity of 5.9 GW. If we divide it into the unit value of such a wind power plant It's gonna be okay. 12, maybe 13 or 14 MW in such a turbine It's going to work out how many windmills they're going to have to be. And these projects are quite scattered. This has been taken into account due to the maritime economy, fishing, as well as the interests of commercial shipping, issues of military security, defence of our country. And that makes it about at the height of the Elbe and the Słupska, we call it S3upska S3upska S3awice. It will be located several projects, nearest 25 km from the coastline, and farthest it can be up to 40 km or more. So I don't think they'll be visible from the shore. There may be a very quiet, serene day, when somewhere these, let's call it, peaks of propellers could be noticed, but it will not be a dominant focusing attention of people who observe the horizon and who, as the senator rightly pointed out, would like to rest, e.g. during the holidays. I am convinced that this interest of Polish society, which traditionally rests on the Polish Coast every year ..a certain peace and experience of the horizon line. It will be compatible with the implementation of offshore wind projects, it will not be in collision. In the future, we also anticipate projects A little towards the West Coast, the Middle Coast, on the so-called. Odrzańska shoal. But they will also be projects far enough away from the coastline to not interfere with the functions I mentioned earlier. These farms cannot be located in the area of the territorial sea, which is guaranteed by the provisions of the Law on Marine Areas, which is why this is planned in the Polish economic zone of the Baltic Sea, not as far as the territorial sea is concerned. It's outside the territorial sea.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u50	Thank you very much. [[I'd like to ask, Mrs. Marshal, because...]] Wait a minute, Mr. Senator... [[I'd like to ask.]] Mr. Senator, would you please... Thank you, Minister. The senator would like to ask an additional question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u51	Thank you very much. Minister, you mentioned this shoal of post-lebian... [[Voice from the hall: Słupska Sławica, that's what it's called.]] It's sloppy. Will there be any investment planned in the area closer to Władysławów? Is there gonna be another one or not? I asked about this coastal strip from Władysławów to Łeba. The Lord mentioned the western part of this belt, and I am interested in this belt, which includes towns such as Białogóra, Dębki, Karwia, Karwieńskie Błota, Jastrzębia Góra, Władysławowo. I'm not talking about the Chalets, and so on, and I'm not going to name all these towns anymore. Will this investment be located there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u52	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u53	Dear Senator, Previously, in answer to one of the questions, I said that we are at the stage of acceptance, approval of spatial planning for offshore wind energy areas and they will detail the conditions for the implementation of these investments. There is no way that any of the investors, Polish or foreign, will be able to build wind farms in a way that will be uncontrollable, which will remind us of the negative practices that we have experienced, and which Senator Maria Koc told us about in terms of land-based wind energy. The whole process is very precise and secure not only in terms of the interests of the people of the Coast, but also, as I said earlier, as regards trade issues, fisheries and defence of our country. I have confirmation that these installations will certainly not be visible from the coast, from the shoreline. They are so far away from the shore that they will not, in colloquially speaking, spoil the landscape for us as tourists, as people resting on the beautiful Polish Baltic. As far as location is concerned, it is, as I said earlier, a process defined by law. The Law on Maritime Areas of the Republic of Poland indicates where locations may be issued, then there is a concrete procedure concerning the implementation of investments and they are also mentioned in this Act. So I'd like to reassure the senator that we're keeping him safe... We want to maximise the participation of Polish companies in the implementation of these projects, so that Polish companies, Polish employees, the state budget for taxes have the greatest benefit of this, but we also care about environmental protection, we care about certain natural values which so far remind us of the Baltic, we associate ourselves with the presence on the Polish coast or on the Polish sea.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u54	Thank you very much. Is the senator satisfied with the answer? [[Yes, sir. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.]] Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u55	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Two questions, one slightly more elaborate. Namely, the procedures for granting the right to cover the negative balance. There are two modes: one on the basis of a decision which concerns points and 8 areas, slightly above 100 points in Annex 1 and the other on the basis of auctions. This decision-making is very fast, because only until June 30th this year... I understand that he is concerned with those actors who are already participating in the procedure, who have permissions, have certain plans. Are these 100 points or just over 100 points sufficient for these entities? That's the first line. I understand that these are mainly those entities... that these are the five entities that you spoke about here, which are mainly Polish entities. Then there's auction mode and there's more of these points, like about 800 or even more. And I have a question for you. This first decision-making procedure is kind of imposed, the location of these points and areas is imposed by the current state, because it is kind of a transitional mode, and then there is this auction destination mode, a larger location and here you chose the state yourself. Which affected the choice of this location, in addition, of course, to conflict issues such as shipping, fishing, etc.? And did you consider it? And that's the second question. In the future, the potential wind power surge with the production of green hydrogen, e.g. the location of the electrolyzers? Whether it is already included in this law, or e.g. Are we still gonna supplement these areas with any other ones? Are these just these areas, or are there going to be other areas?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u56	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u57	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! The differential contract is a legal institution which is known in the Polish legal order and implemented in the context of the RES auction annually announced by the President of the Energy Regulatory Office in the field of land-based installations of renewable energy sources in various technologies, in various RES sectors. And this mechanism was introduced into the bill. Of course, in the first phase, which is characterized by the adoption of an administrative decision by the President of the Energy Regulatory Office, they will take companies that have the most advanced projects and have also obtained a location at sea in the form of decisions about the so-called. PSZ, that is, the rise of artificial islands at sea. And here this decision, as determined by the President of the Energy Regulatory Office, will still be subject to verification in the context of the individual notification of each economic project by the European Commission. Then, after notification, this decision will return to the President of the Regulatory Authority, who can still verify this price, but only in minus, cannot raise it up, but can verify it in minus. And we still have the fourth element of the verification, namely the so-called. the clawback mechanism, which, in the event of savings being made by the investor in the implementation of this investment, defines in the Act the allocation of these savings to the investor and, on the other hand, to the Treasury. This will also result in the final fixing of the price of 1 MWh produced in such installations. The locations agree with the previous decisions of the PSZW. They weren't arbitraryly verified at the moment. This is a process, these are already acquired rights that investors have obtained in previous years. These were decisions issued by the Minister of Maritime Affairs and agreed with numerous ministers, among others. with the Minister of National Defence. Since 2025 and 2027 there will be auctions of energy produced in offshore wind farms and there will be selected in this mechanism the cheapest offers that will win the auctions. And as for those conditions that the senator mentioned, that is. for a score, that's where you'll have to have more points, but the differential mechanism itself will depend on the same thing. Namely, someone who will win the auction and commit to producing energy for 25 years as part of the project that he will implement will be able, on these conditions, to finance the construction of such an installation, so the project will gain the quality of the so-called. banking capacity, the ability of funding institutions to credit and, secondly, to obtain the price he guaranteed himself in the RES auction. So if this price on the market is higher than what was accepted in the auction, then the investor will obtain for 25 years the price he bid in the auction, and the surplus will be paid to the state budget. In turn, if the price in the energy market were lower than the price quoted in the auction, the differential mechanism would ensure that the investor obtains the price contracted in the auction. As far as green hydrogen is concerned, I don't see any conflict here. Of course we are, Mr. Senator, at, you can say, the first stage of preparing or building a hydrogen economy, as well as strategic documents, laws related to it. I think the location decisions issued in 2012 and 2013 had nothing to do with the fact that... Nobody thought then about where the hydrogen electrolyte will be placed. Technologies are progressing, they're developing all the time. Such electrolyzers can function both at sea as offshore and land-based installations. This is a question of supplying the energy generated at the offshore wind farm and later, which is very important, the use of this hydrogen with the minimization of transmission or storage losses. As we know, hydrogen is a difficult element when it comes to storage, but today there are already technologies in the world that are perfectly capable of handling it. I think we're going to be able to sort of combine these two sectors. Green hydrogen from offshore is a natural consequence of the implementation of projects in the Polish hydrogen strategy or in the draft of this document. We predict that by 2030 we will be able to generate 2 GW of power in electrolysis from the installations referred to in the draft law. This is a certain point or a prudential threshold. This may be a higher value, but let us set ourselves optimal, rational goals that we will also be able to achieve economically. I think it's possible, and I don't see any conflict here. Since both strategic areas, offshore wind energy and the hydrogen economy, are, as I say, located in the Ministry of Climate and Environment, the cooperation of 2 departments aims to ensure that both major economic projects are implemented jointly and without conflict. Maybe even one will come from another and will benefit from the power generated in offshore wind farms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u58	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide written answers to questions asked by Senator Krzysztof Mroz and Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. I'm opening a discussion. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneus will gain: Once again, thank you very much to the marshal, the High House, all of you senators. Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Dear Senate! For 4 years as Vice-President of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, I have been working for the development of Polish renewable energy. This area has been particularly close to me since the beginning of the senator's dignity. I have always believed in wind energy, which Poland has uniquely developed I remind you: uniquely Good conditions both on land and at sea. After years I can finally say that I have seen a government project, which finally takes into account strategic Polish interests. I'm just saying, why did we all have to wait so long for this project? Why do we have to act in such a hurry so crucial for the future of Poland? That's the government's standard. Knowing how high the stakes were, could the necessary decisions at government level not be made efficiently? Today we have a knife on our throat: either we are about to adopt this law without amendments, knowing, of course, its shortcomings, or investors, who have been ready to start the investment for a long time, will not receive public aid. Because the EU RED II directive allows RES support outside the auction only until the end of June next year. So in our hands today is not only the fate of this law, but also the fate of Polish energy. If we do not show responsibility today, not only will there be no electricity from offshore farms in the Polish Baltic Sea, but there will also be no economic benefits in the country resulting from the implementation of these investments. Law and Justice politicians talk a lot about the need to ensure the energy security of the country, mouths are full of clichés. Unfortunately, they're just talking. Many times, when I attended the meetings of this committee, I witnessed the adoption of legislation which, instead of supporting the energy sector, blocked its development in particular in the area of renewable energy, which we are talking about today, which is dynamically developing all over the world, and in Poland it has to do so. I'm reminding you, I said it in the beginning. - Excellent conditions. Meanwhile, we are squandering this potential. For more than four years wind energy has not been developed on land as far as we can, using the latest technology available on the market. She could power our system with cheap, clean energy. And from year to year, foreign energy imports are growing, Minister. Dear country, industry in Poland pays for electricity most in this part of Europe. We have seen that on average 50 PLN for 1 MWh more than in Germany. How can our companies compete effectively in international markets if their production costs are increasing? We hear more and more about companies that have a high cost of energy forcing them to withdraw from part of their business, to close down their plants and to fire people. I will just mention, just to remind you, the famous case of Mittal, which for these reasons decided to extinguish the furnace in Krakow. The famous porcelain factory in Węczeż has been liquidated. As one of the reasons, the board of directors reported high, rising energy costs. If we do not resolve this situation quickly, we will soon hear more stories like this in our country. And in the COVID era, this could be disastrous for our economy as a whole. Today we need to take actions that will create new jobs that will allow Polish companies to develop, both by providing access to affordable, uncharged energy emissions from RES, and by launching large infrastructure investments that will generate demand for services and products from the domestic market. Ladies and gentlemen, today we do not have time for diwags. Time is inexhaustible. Either today we will all show responsibility for the fate of the state, or we will throw away a huge opportunity for Poland, for the Polish industry. In the current situation, we absolutely cannot afford this. And a handful of reflection. Ladies and gentlemen, four years ago, I was standing here, right where I'm standing right now. And those four years ago, I said don't go that way. The Polish government then hid behind the so-called. It's a parliamentary bill. And I regret to say today that I am sad because the Polish government does not have such a reflection that his representative on this speaker would say to the senators: yes, we have made a mistake. In normal countries, when something like this happens, the government can hit their chests and say, "We're sorry, we've lost." And we've lost a lot, ladies and gentlemen. I will not talk about this today because the Minister also sees that this time is needed, and he asked us at the meeting of the Committee on the National Economy to adopt the bill without amendments. But, Minister, we're up to four years old, up to loss. It's calculated. And to those bankrupt companies that killed the banks, we will return to Polish companies because this is difficult to stop and it is difficult to forget. It was a huge loss to the Polish economy, resulting only from the fact that some of the Members who were set up told foolishness. By the way... You don't have a Senator Hare, and I want to thank her today. Yeah, yeah, the Senator from the P.I.S. She supported me for the amendments four years ago. If these amendments had passed, we would not have spoken like this today. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u60	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u61	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This law is best suited to the term "late," but not too late. And I have two sentences to explain why I'm saying this. Indeed, we are bound by a directive which gives the opportunity for entrepreneurs applying for public aid to apply to the Polish government, in this case the URE, and through the URE by the end of March to the European Commission for notification, and thus for this public aid to be granted. The adoption of any amendments will only result in this time being very radically limited, and perhaps that they will not be able to come to the Commission in the course of this procedure at all. In fact, it is the clou of this law, that is the foundation of this law, the possibility of obtaining the public aid that other entrepreneurs already operate in the Baltic in the economic zones of Danish, German or Swedish. I remember when I was on a farm like this in the Danish zone in the early 2000s. So this is already happening, these investment processes in the Baltic are taking place. However, the provisions of European law are changing. Since July, all those who do not receive notification and invest in such projects will not be able to sell their energy at auctions. Only for this reason and for the sole reason that we want to support Polish companies, companies operating in Poland, we are forced to adopt the law without amendments. We discussed this at the meetings of the committee, both the climate committee, the Environment Committee and the national economy committee. I then suggested that, for example, the amendments that were prepared by the Legislative Bureau, because a significant part of them have reasons... I agreed with the Minister that it would be either a senate initiative or the government would prepare its own proposal in advance. I also propose that we treat those amendments that the senators want to make in exactly the same way. Let us give Polish entrepreneurs a chance to apply for a derogation, for the possibility of granting public aid, and only in the second step let us try to improve this law. Because she needs to be corrected, she really is written... I even understand it a little bit when I look through the prism of the behaviour of some of my fellow Members in the Seym... I'm gonna talk about it right now, too. I understand that it may have been difficult for the minister and the government to implement this law in an uncollisionable way by the government and perhaps it has emerged. I don't know, but that's what I'm assuming. A lot of different kinds of emotions. Because the bill is actually written in accordance with such a Cuban system: the controller controls the Controller, and he still has the Controller over himself. There are so many different control instruments sewn up in it that I wonder how in practice, at the end, when this moment of public aid comes, it will work. Today, the most important thing is to create this possibility at all, so that entrepreneurs can, so to speak, receive a derogation, and without this bill they will not achieve it. So much for the basic part of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen of the senators, please don't make any amendments to the bill. At the same time, I declare my willingness to work on possible amendments to this law as soon as the legislative process in this area is completed. I already told you, so I'm gonna say... Well, I'm going to refer to some of the Members' behavior. I looked it up just a little while ago. Indeed, there was an exceptional agreement about this law, at first sight, in the Sejm, unique because, it seems, only 1 Member voted against. Well, a few didn't take part in the vote, although they were in the Chamber, although they voted in the votes before the bill and voted on it in the voting block immediately after the vote on the bill. Those are significant names. Jarosław Kaczyński did not vote, Zbigniew Ziobro did not vote, Mariusz Kaminski did not vote Macierewicz... Mr Macierewicz, I am sorry. For some reason, they didn't vote. I'm not developing why... [[Voice from the room: Impossible.]] Yes, it is possible, in this case. I've got the results right here. I've got the votes in front of me. In this case, it did. Well, I'm convinced they still have a theory that they're closer to coal. Everything about wind and renewable energy is alien to them. This merely confirms what happened in December 2015. It is about firing out this RES, which was on land, that my previous speakers have already mentioned. Then the so-called. lex Energa or lex Obajtek In my opinion, to this day, Poland is exposed to enormous compensation for the introduction of these provisions. We'll see what these consequences will look like in the future. I share the view that this is of course a great opportunity in the context of an energy mix, looking for new energy sources. 6.9 GW installed at sea, an investment of 130, 160 billion... One of the senators asked me about nuclear power last night. At the same time, the government buys PGE EJ from PGE and wants to implement itself, not to know why, with public money it is an undertaking, without looking for instruments of development support... I don't think that's necessary today, but if the government wants in the area of private, commercial money... Well, there's really no reason to go that way. Stories on the subject that this is a great opportunity in the seaport part... Well, I'd like to sign off on that, but, Minister, this opportunity seems to have already been wasted on the construction of the first windmills. In the port of Gdynia nothing happens and the port itself, as the marine institute writes, is not suitable It's the one to build this kind of facilities. Gdansk would have been better, but there's nothing going on there either. There's nothing going on in Świnoujście and Szczecin. But there is a lot going on in Danish ports that are preparing to operate windmills at sea. I say this with regret, because I would prefer it to happen in Polish ports. I hope that this part concerning service, service after construction, will take place from Polish ports. There's not much going on so far. So far there are words, words, words, but the words and intentions of actions are not realized. Here actions are needed and these actions are very, very, very much hoped for. I have to go further, since this law has such a dimension which causes discussion in the energy part, to what is happening today in the energy sector. This infatuation with coal has resulted in the fact that investments have just been closed, an ongoing investment in Ostrołęka. Two, three billion zlotys were wasted, and no one wants to give the real data. We have official results, presented by the government, concerning mining, after 10 months 2020. Note: the loss is PLN 3 billion 672 million. This loss after 10 months generated mining in Poland. I could give you some more interesting data on imports of coal into Poland and storage of coal in Poland. This, of course, shows again that the faster we move away from coal and move on to other sources of energy generation, the better it is for all of us. Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I kindly ask you to support this bill and not to make any amendments. I'm asking that we actually give it a chance. I will say this once again to Polish entrepreneurs investing in Poland so that they can benefit from the possibility of state aid. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u62	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u63	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I will start with a Polish proverb: the time and the sea without movement cannot stand. Unfortunately, we wasted a lot of time. But it's good that there's wind by the sea, that there's traffic and that we can use it. I accept the arguments that arose during the discussion. The law is imperfect, but in the interest of Poland, the Polish economy, and in particular Polish energy and clean air, it is that it is adopted as soon as possible. In order for this to happen and to complete the legislative process as soon as possible, no amendments were asked to be tabled to this law and to benefit from, for example, on the senate legislative initiative or hope for a quick government project. Ladies and gentlemen, last year industry media, but not only, informed about 3 records in Polish energy industry. The first concerned the highest instantaneous energy consumption. It's an objective effect of growing energy demand. The second record is extremely happy and this is the record of the highest daily energy production from RES, specifically windmills. In the context of air protection requirements, this is very good information. The third record concerned Okay, here's the The largest import of energy from abroad. And that's not good news. Perhaps some have already forgotten that the most time has been spent at the European Union leaders' summit in December, contrary to appearances, not on budget discussions, but on climate policy and radical reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. In this discussion the voice of Poland, to put it mildly, was lonely. Non-illusional arrangements have been adopted. Polish energy is facing a revolution in the perspective of 2030. For the energyists I've been talking to, it's not a ten-year perspective. This is the perspective at hand. The time to plan and implement large investments is several years, for example. in the case of nuclear energy, this is the minimum period. And we still don't have directional decisions. Thank you for your response, Minister. I will really keep my thumbs tightly crossed so that in April or May a key document in this area, namely the state's energy policy, will actually appear. Gently, let me remind you that this is not the first time that this document has been presented to us. The inhabitants of many regions of Poland are waiting for this, and this, contrary to appearances, is not only by the sea, as in the case of offshore energy, not only in Silesia, where there is coal mining, but also in my voivodeship, Łódź, in the region of Zgorzelecki or Konin, where brown coal is still being extracted. When we know the final and official decision on whether there will be any new discoveries, will they be gone? I will remind you that in previous terms there were even cross-party teams, e.g. For the Złoczew discovery. Are those regions where these discoveries will no longer be, where we are faced with the final decision, likely to receive EU funds from the Fair Transformation Fund? This is a key question that has been asked me many times in the Łódź voivodship. I was asked this question especially often in the Belchatów district. To be clear, I fully support the law on windmills at sea. Unfortunately, the Łódź voivodship, despite its name, does not lie by the sea. What about the windmills on land? The construction of windmills on land was blocked by unthinkable decisions from 5 years ago. It's a high-rise bill. The media reports that the government is working to change this bill. I would like to know when she will go to Parliament and what will be in it. Well, we can't forget that really investments on the Polish wind market stood at the turn of 2015 and 2016. During this period, the connection of windmills to the national power grid reached an apogee, which was the result of the haste of investors wishing to make time to start energy production in the green certificate system In addition, wind projects in Poland implemented in the first half of 2016 the Law on investment in wind power plants, which was called a distance law due to the new extremely restrictive criterion of the minimum distance of new windmills from residential buildings and protected areas. Well, the industry called it the mortuary law, digging up wind energy on land. The new distance criterion meant that almost all wind projects, for which construction permits had not yet been obtained, could be thrown into the basket. Senator Komarnicki also mentioned this. You can also keep documentation in the hope of changing the rules, but there is still no improvement in this regard, at least in the near future. However, I hope that we will get some information in this regard, preferably a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, I have asked about windmills on land and the consequences of unthinkable decisions from five years ago. I do not hide the fact that I hope that there will be a change in this area. As I said, the Belchat district or Zgorzelecki have extensive transport infrastructure, but are not located by the sea. They can only bet on wind energy on land. I have recently heard from the former Minister of National Defence that there will be a nuclear power plant in Bełchatów, but... so I would like to ask a government representative if that's true. That's good news for me. There's a whole transport infrastructure in Bełchatów, so it would be a good idea to use this place. But political experience has taught me to treat politics with a long distance. I am not sure that these announcements will be implemented in the future. When it is finally adopted I've already asked you that. A key document, PEP2040? The point is not to be surprised by information like the one about the Bełchatów power plant. We would like everyone, and above all the residents and business representatives, to know what to expect in energy. The windmills in the sea are the first step, and it's very good. Once again, it is thanks to you, Minister, thanks to your commitment, that document went to the Senate. But what about the biogas plants? What about water energy? What about hydrogen, photovoltaics and land windmills? Many individual customers have invested in photovoltaic panels in the last year. We talked about this in this room. It's a huge success for people who understand how important it is to protect the climate, who know what smog is, and they see growing electricity bills. Let us not forget that all Poles this year will notice that once again their energy bills have increased. The fact that today the price of energy in Poland is the highest in the European Union is, unfortunately, a fact that we had to acknowledge with pain. Will this photovoltaic programme continue, or will it be replaced by others? Will it be possible to resell surplus energy produced by prosumers? If this programme continues, what are the rules? Will these principles be beneficial to citizens, and their investments will make this situation beneficial to the environment? We're asking this in the case of the Wind Energy Act at sea, because we're looking forward to these other documents. To conclude, I will say my decision in this regard: I fully support this law. I believe that we really should adopt it without amendments in order to complete the procedure as soon as possible. But I will also say that I am looking forward to the government's decision on other areas related to the operation of energy, including wind energy on land or photovoltaics, and in particular a clear declaration, which is about regions such as. Bełchatów in Łódź. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u64	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Lamczyk. The senator is in room 217. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! Of course, it is a good thing that today we are proceding this law, I am very impressed with the Minister's activities and his positive energy, but also, like my predecessors, I have a lot of concerns, because the United Right is easier to launch projects to build new branches than to actually run them. For example, electromobility, which after 5 years is in the initial stage. The non-starting of offshore wind farms over 5 years is an incomprehensible waste of the national potential of Polish energy resources and the unexploiting of current economic opportunities created by fully competitive technology, which is marine energy. Therefore, as wind farms were abandoned on land, where it was known that in the case of such dense urbanization as is in Poland, no power plants, wind farms on land will be possible... But we were also the only country that couldn't produce the RES rate at 100%, even though we had the lowest... On the other hand, we bear the consequences because we have the most expensive energy, and this will affect the profitability of our industry, which is developing so well. We know that Poland has the best conditions for wind energy in the Baltic Sea, because on the one hand, it is located here... it is simply wind blowing, and on the other hand the depth is not too big, because 170 m, and it is sufficient, and our water in the Baltic Sea is not very salty and can do this simple electrolysis, it can produce hydrogen. I am concerned that, on the one hand, we want to build wind farms and, on the other hand, we are signing an agreement on a nuclear power plant. Every respectable country chooses its own... For example, the UK, which did the analysis, which pays better and chose wind farms, has become a precursor, but also number one not only in Europe but also in the world. The budget discussed yesterday worried me, because there were no boxes for innovation... i.e. Polish patents concerning the production of hydrogen, green hydrogen, as well as related innovations. Therefore, Minister, I ask you to make these changes that we have been talking about as soon as possible, as possible, and to force this Polish technological thought, Polish innovation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u66	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Government representatives! First of all, I'm glad that this bill went to the Senate. We know it took a long time to work on it. We also know that it could have gone to Parliament much earlier, but it is as it is. I would like to say that the Act on the promotion of electricity generation in offshore wind farms is of particular importance in the context of what happened at the beginning of December, in the first decade, actually at the turn of the first and second decades of December, because then the European Council agreed to increase the level of climate targets, the level of greenhouse gas emission reductions by 55% by 2030. As we know, this is a very significant increase in this value, because the objective of the Union is to reach 2050 so-called. climate neutrality, i.e. zeroing in this respect. This poses very serious challenges for the Polish economy and Polish energy. We are already 2021 and we know that achieving this goal involves not only the need to implement very concrete restructuring, modernisation, investment plans in the Polish energy sector, but also the huge measures that this can absorb. I met with an analysis which indicates that the achievement of full energy neutrality by the Polish economy requires EUR 850 billion. Yeah, $850 billion. Imagine that. Let's say it's 2050. Let's divide it by 30... I'm sorry for 29 years, because that's all we have left by 2050. So we can see what amounts we're talking about. It's really serious. I think that many citizens, having to pay new electricity bills at the moment, are asking themselves why this electricity is more expensive. It costs more because once the production of 1 MW of coal was relatively economical. At the moment, when you have to pay the appropriate emission charges for each additional tonne of CO2, it has changed. The cost, which was over PLN 200 per MW a few years ago, is now up to PLN 400, if I have relatively good data. Meanwhile, the cost of wind energy from offshore farms is within the limits, I believe, of PLN 300 per 1 MW of generated energy. We clearly see that this price difference is significant. I'm glad this project is already in the Senate. Hopefully, with all the deadlines, we'll make it. Above all, this is so that the appropriate investment resources can be mobilised, because the implementation of this project at the level that the Minister was talking about is more than PLN 150 billion, so this is very significant funds, non-budget funds, which will have a significant impact on the landscape of Polish energy. I think that our House could use a deeper debate on Polish energy, also in the context of what was adopted at the European Summit last December, i.e. increasing climate objectives. We know that Poland is in a difficult situation because it is a huge challenge to bear such huge costs of transformation of our energy, and the fund that will be dedicated to this is disproportionate to the costs of modernization. Because there is talk of EUR 3.5 billion, and this is absolutely not the kind of measures that are commensurate with the number that I gave, more than EUR 800 billion. I'm talking about a comprehensive modernisation programme to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. That is why I think that there should be a debate in our House on this, because, to be honest, it is an increase in those emission targets, the consequences of which... Who knows if they are more long-term and larger than the whole reconstruction package that was being discussed and the budgetary perspective of the Union for the next 7 years. But this is what has been covered by the discussion on the Fund for Reconstruction, the EU perspective for 20212027, and in principle it has passed so completely unnoticed, while the effect for each of us, for every citizen, will be extremely severe, because unfortunately it is necessary to get used to the fact that energy prices in Poland will increase. Therefore, my conclusion from this debate today would be that we should have a serious debate on this subject in the Senate and get acquainted with the whole... Well, I know that there is a country's energy policy, that there are various kinds of documents that relate to these challenges ahead of us, but it would be worth discussing here, because it is really a fundamental issue about development and economic and social, and I will say more, it also has a political dimension, because energy prices will also affect social sentiment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u68	Thank you very much, Senator. Oh, and Senator Bober. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u69	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, this discussion, which took place at today's meeting, was very upbuilding. I will not discuss with my great friend, expert Stanisław Gawłowski, I will simply trust him that what he has said will come true, will happen, and that the Minister will be involved in the debate and in the process of the initiative Or the government, or our senate, and that these comments submitted here, also at the committee meeting today, will be taken into account. We have indeed raised many issues here, and in particular the subject of the biogas plant, which has been forgotten and is not the subject of this wider debate, as well as of Sierzewo, the water level of Sierzewo, after all, located in our voivodeship, near the previous level of Włocławek. We need to make a crucial decision on this, because unfortunately there is a threat, erosion of that degree occurs, and to strengthen that degree, the water grade of the Grain was to be built. But, in conclusion, Mr. Marshal, on behalf of all the applicants, Senator Philip Libicki, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, as well as Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz and my own, I withdraw the amendment concerning Annex 2. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u70	Thank you very much, Senator. For the sake of order, I inform you that the following senators submitted their speeches to the minutes: Ryszard Świlski, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Aleksander Szwed, Mieczysław Golba, Jolanta Hibner, Mariusz Gromko, Janusz Pęcherz, Janusz Gromek, Halina Bieda and Wadim Tyszkiewicz. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Law on amending the Prison Service Act, the Law on the prevention and control of infectious diseases and infections in humans, and the Act on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. The text of the Act is contained in print No 296 and the report of the Commission In print No 296 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to report to the committee It's remote. [[Disruption during the speech]] [[...who considered the bill...]] Excuse me, Mr. Senator, but I have the impression that we are not able to hear you exactly, because there is a problem on the links, I think. [[Now, Mr. Marshal, can you hear me?]] I think we all hear you very well now, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u71	I'll say it again. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to present a report on the work of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, which has recognised, examined the draft law... and, in fact, the law on amending the Prison Service Act, the law on preventing and combating infectious infections and diseases in humans, and the law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. The purpose of this law is to amend the texts of 3 laws. The amendments to the Prison Service Act consist in setting a maximum limit for the Prison Service's expenditure for the period 2022 to 2031 for the flat-rate payment of travel to the place of duty. The annual amount of the measures provided for in the amendment for the years 2022 to 2031 is PLN 96 million, 523 thousand. The law on the prevention and control of infectious diseases and infections in humans introduces the possibility of directing Prison Service officers to work to combat the epidemic following a positive opinion by the Director-General of the Prison Service. This decision will be issued by the voivode or the Minister responsible for Health. The third act is the Act on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. The changes introduced include: on the fact that the Director-General of the Prison Service will be able to determine, by way of temporary arrangements, the objectives, organisational structures and tasks of the medicinal entity for those deprived of liberty. This order of the Director-General of the Prison Service will suspend the statute of the medical entity. The amendment also limits the need to carry out checks on a person who is deprived of liberty before or before being released from a prison, when, according to the medical staff's assessment, the health status of a person who is deprived of liberty requires or such person reports health problems. Another aspect is that a physician of a medicinal product for those who are deprived of liberty may give advice or order a test without having direct contact with the patient. This is the same as treatment carried out outside of facilities located in prisons or detentions... in prisons, that is, as part of the freedom health service. The amendments to the Act lead to the possibility of passing on doses of medicines to an embedded person or a Prison Service officer also when they are prepared by medical staff employed in providers of 24-hour nursing care. During the committee's work, the Legislative Bureau proposed 3 amendments. One was substantive, 2 were editorial amendments. These amendments were supported by the committee. All the senators were also in favour of the entire bill. On behalf of the committee, I request the adoption of an amendment act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u72	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question for you. Was there any statistics at the committee meeting on the number of infections among inmates and arresters who would be infected with the COVID-19 virus? I'm asking because I didn't find any information about it, at least I didn't find it in public space. Are these statistics even conducted? Is it recorded? And the second question is, was there any mention of a vaccination plan for inmates and arresters? Is that the plan, or are they subject to general regulation? How's that gonna be organized? I would ask the senator to address my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u74	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u75	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, we've been talking about the number of infected people in prisons. This figure is significantly lower than in other countries of the European Union. It is a few dozen people. These are some promile compared to the number of inmates. As for the matter that you raised, I would very much ask for the response of the Minister, the representative of the Ministry of Justice. I think Minister Woś is in the courtroom, so I would very much ask the Minister to answer the second question asked by Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u76	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u77	I forgot to ask you one more thing. I asked about the inmates and the inmates. And were there any statistics on the prison officers themselves? They function both in a world in which they undertake their ministry and in the outside world, and therefore necessarily, like every citizen, are at risk of being infected. Were there any statistics in this regard or data presented at the committee meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u78	Thank you very much, Senator. Would the Senator rapporteur like to refer to this?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u79	That's a pretty detailed question. This statistics change from day to day, so I would ask for an answer from a representative of the Ministry of Justice, Minister Wosia.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u80	Thank you very much, Senator. Are there other questions for the rapporteur? There isn't. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Director of the Legal Office of the Central Board of Prison Service Michał Zoń: I am very sorry, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Michał Zoń, Head of the Legal Office, Central Board of Prison Service. I have no authority, but I have information that the Minister is on his way to the Senate. Literally in a minute or two, he should be in the O.R. Thank you.]] As I understand it, it's related to some technical problems. [[Director of the Legal Office of the Central Prison Service Board Michał Zoń: Yes, yes. He just left the ministry.]] It happens, especially these days. I'm declaring a 10-minute recess. [[Director of the Legal Office of the Central Prison Service Board Michał Zoń: Thank you kindly.]] [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 44 to 13 minutes 54]] We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Law on amending the Prison Service Act, the Law on the prevention and control of infectious diseases and infections in humans, and the Act on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. The text of the Act is contained in print No 296 and the report of the Commission In print No 296 A. Before the break, we listened to the rapporteur's report, which also answered the senators' questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: Thank you.]] At present, however, senators may submit no longer than a minute of query to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? This was a rhetorical question on my part, because I have been observing for a long time that you want to ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, in connection with this bill and the problem it concerns, I have three short questions. In part, I have already asked Senator Ambrozik, who was the Senator rapporteur, but I would also like to ask at the source of the knowledge, which is the Ministry of Justice. Minister, the first question is: do we know the statistics, do we know how many people are inmates and arrested who have been diagnosed with the virus and COVID-19 disease? Second question: are there similar statistics for employees, mainly prison officers, but also penitentiary workers? The question concerns a similar aspect, i.e. the number of cases found. And the third question is: what is the issue of the involvement of inmates and inmates in the national vaccination programme? Will this be done on general terms, according to age categories? How's that gonna be organized? How does the Prison Service undertake to implement this program? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u82	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u83	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First question. At this moment we have 3,000 994 officers who have been infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus, from the beginning to the present, i.e. at various stages, for almost a whole year. That's almost 4,000 officers. As for the inmates, I answer the second question. The 667 inmates were affected by the coronavirus. I can add that, on a European scale, we are at the top of the line when it comes to the safety of prisons. None of the countries, if we consider our southern neighbours, Slovaks, Czechs, can boast of such statistics. As far as infected officers are concerned, there are less than 4,000 people here when it comes to inmates, there are over 600 people. So that we are the absolute leader in protecting the safety of inmates and the security of the Prison Service officers. To answer the third question... I would ask for more information from the Prison Service here. Of course, this program is distributed, there is a plan for this program, but you will allow the senator to provide comprehensive information in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u84	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Senator, do you have any further questions? [[No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. Do any of you senators have any questions for... You're welcome, Senator Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u85	Mr. Marshal, Minister... [[Voice from the room: Card.]] Is the card in? [[Voice from the room: No.]] Can you hear me now? [[Yes.]] Mr. Marshal! Minister! This law provides for the secondment, the possibility of directing officers of the Prison Service by decision of the voivode or the Minister responsible for Health to work in the fight against the epidemic. I'm a doctor, so my question is: what is a prison officer going to do in an epidemic fight? What skills can be useful for this purpose? That's the first question. Question two. During the epidemic, in my opinion, they will be practically deprived of health care, because the decision of the Director-General of the Prison Service may be suspended by the statute of the medical entity. It doesn't matter if the prison only owns a clinic or a clinic or has any fixed beds. and advice is to be provided remotely. There's no such thing as a remote examination because you can't remotely examine a patient. You can listen remotely to what he has to say. It is also frightening to note that a prison officer will take medication for the patient from someone. What does that mean? The fact that an officer is gonna take shots from an outside nurse and give them to the inmates? There seems to be another record that... this bill and these records will be in force, despite the end of the pandemic. Am I wrong? So it is written in this bill that pandemics will no longer be, and you will be able to afford that this health protection, as you just said yourself, very good, does not function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u86	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u87	Thank you very much. Those things the senator mentioned. I'll remind you. They are not in the original project which was addressed to the Sejm from our department, they have been amended in the Sejm. But as I support these amendments, I will try to answer the senator's questions. The first question is: they're medical rescuers. There's about 100 of them right now. These are not unskilled people, those who first come into contact with the treatment, with the patient. That success I just mentioned. And thank you, Senator, for sharing this argument, because we actually look special on a European scale. It's because of them. They are the ones who have made it their hard work, their prevention, our work plan, that we have such a small number of infected people, both among the officers and among the inmates. And now these people with experience, we want to direct them to the front line. If, of course, there is such a decision To fight the coronavirus, to help ordinary people the way they helped the inmates. The fact that they're qualified means they're black-and-white from the data. The second question... So I would absolutely not question their skills, their qualifications, on the contrary They are entitled to their words of appreciation. The next issue is the work of remote and remote medical information. Just as the medical care system is functioning remotely today, so the doctor knows it very well. We can remotely receive a lot of information about the patient's health, such as temperature, well-being, and many other things that are important when making a diagnosis and taking further treatment. So there's no breaking down the open door here. Remote care is in place and this remote care will function in the same way. As for the last question, about the period, this is obviously a pandemic period. But, let me remind you, we have one of the amendments regarding the direct pandemic period and three months after that, when the Director-General can change the status of a prison health facility. As for the temporal scope of the proposed changes... I'd ask that question, too. We're gonna answer that. As these amendments are simply not ours. They were reported during the parliamentary work. And we're gonna lean on the issues of interim law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u88	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Rafał Ambrozik's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u89	Senator Jackowski asked about the number of infected prisoners and inmates. To answer that question, I was talking about the moment. I wasn't talking about the one-year perspective you were talking about, because there were actually more officers and prisoners. And I want to ask you how many prison officers and how many inmates are currently infected with the coronavirus and isolated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u90	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u91	As far as the current data is concerned, I would also provide such information in writing, precise information... Unless the directors who are with me have that data. That's what I'm asking for. Then we'll give it to the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u92	I understand that you will answer, Minister... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: In writing.]] In writing. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: Yes, sir.]] Are there any other questions? I'm informing you that a government representative... [[Voice from the room: Wait a minute...]] You're welcome, Senator Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u93	Minister, I'd like to ask you something. Under normal circumstances, the State itself finances, i.e. Prison budget, prison health care. Will you have a chance to use the money of the NFZ after turning the unit into covid? Is that a solution, too... 'Cause I know there's covid troops in Black and Potulice. This is medically justified, but I think you should also verify my information financially. Potentially, you have the opportunity to apply for resources from the NFZ to the covid patients' ward.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u94	Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, but this question also applies to the Prison Service. I don't do prison services. I'm gonna say I'm here to replace my friend. I ask you to be able to answer this question in writing. Okay? I'll answer as soon as I get that information from my colleagues.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u95	Thank you very much, Minister. Since there are no further questions, I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions raised by Senators Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Rafał Ambrozik and Jan Maria Jackowski. I'm opening a discussion. You're welcome to take... Two people signed up for the vote. Please take the floor of Senator Alexander Swede... No, I'm sorry, Senator Alicia Chybick now.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm sure you're surprised that as a doctor, I'm taking the floor on an inmate case, but I'm gonna be specific about inmates' health, which shouldn't be weird anymore. This is important to me because, for many years, inmates from Cape Hope have been helping my children. Many of them I know, they prepare wooden toys for children and appear on the occasion of Christmas. Minister, you haven't convinced me at all that these people will have such health care. I also don't know why you're talking about the lifeguards of the Prison Service. This isn't about lifeguards, it's about prison officers, that's about people. That's how I understand it. They're taking care of the inmates. My question to you... Please respond in writing. What is their role in health care? Well, a lifeguard would be useful, of course, but maybe an officer would, too. Perhaps you can see a role for him. I'd like to stress that deprivation... Because that's how I feel about all the records. They will deprive the inmates of the real medical care they have right now, especially if it is what the Minister said it would be. Well, they're gonna be taken from there to the public health department and only the paramedics who are out there... all this health care is gonna be based on POZ and telephone consultations, so the situation of these inmates in terms of health, especially in the pandemic era, is actually gonna be critical. This is where Senator Jackowski asked what about vaccinations. Who's going to do it if this service is so significantly reduced? Of course, the bill deserves support because it provides funds for transport and tries to help outsiders fight the pandemic. But isn't that gonna be throwing out a baby with a bath? Isn't that going to end up going away from the inmates, just for health reasons, to the other world? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u97	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u98	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I had an opportunity yesterday to speak with the Prison Service officers, the union representatives of the Prison Service officers. I'd like to stress very strongly... Well, I would like to congratulate you, because the number of infected in the Polish penitentiary system, i.e., in Polish prisons, prisons and prisons, among the inmates, is, well, if not the lowest, certainly one of the lowest recorded in the penitentiary systems of the European Union. Suffice to say that for about 70,000 prisoners in Polish prisons and arrests... Well, today we have information that there were 667 cases of infection among the prisoners, which is This was less than 1%. Inmates. I'd like to make this very clear here. Today, patients with COVID are about 100, while at the same time in the Czech Republic and Slovakia, in many smaller countries, there are several hundred infected people. This law also regulates the lump sum for traveling to the place of duty and enables the Minister to make use of medical staff, including medical rescuers, to perform certain functions within health care systems. For my part, you have full support for this bill. It is not a secret that the functioning of prison medical care requires support, but I speak honestly, it is the result of really long-term negligence. A lot has been tried in this area over the last few years, but we must also say that there is still some work to be done. This law, of course in a specific context, i.e. related to the prevention and fight against COVID, is a necessary law that regulates and regulates certain issues, which is why I will certainly support it, also bearing in mind how effectively Polish prisoners managed to reduce the scale of infection in Polish prisons and detentions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u99	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u100	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I would like to remind you that we had a problem with the legislative process. They've been reported... The Minister said it wasn't the Ministry's idea. There were amendments that were tabled during the legislative work, and we had here, especially our Legislative Office, some reservations about how to proceed. At the same time, as Senator Kwiatkowski said, this is a very important act, these are important changes that relate to the needs and safety of the prisoners. Therefore, Let's say we've turned a blind eye to imperfections in the procession. According to our Legislative Bureau, a problem has been raised in this presentation, which unfortunately has not been explained in the Chamber today. Well, why did Senator Chybick talk about it in this bill? Is there a period of 3 months after the cancellation of the COVID-related states? This is not, as our Legislative Office points out, an accident bill. We haven't been told why there's such a record. After all, these are COVID-related activities. I therefore make an amendment aimed at deleting the words and within 3 months of their revocation. I would remind you that in the article. 14ea only in point 1 we deal with such a record. There is no such thing at all in other points that also refer to the state of the epidemic. It therefore appears that this amendment should be approved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u101	Thank you very much, Senator. I don't see any more... No one else signed up for the vote. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that Senator Alexander Pociej has tabled an amendment, a legislative proposal. Senator Victor Durlak also filed a motion. Would a government representative like to comment on the legislative proposals put forward? I don't want to. Thank you. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law The text of the Act is contained in print No 298 and the report of the Commission In print No 298 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Robert Mammothov, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It was a government bill. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. The Sejm adopted a law at its 23rd meeting on 16 December 2020. It was forwarded to the Senate on 17 December 2020. The senate's examination is due to expire on 16 January 2021. The Act contains regulations aimed at enabling the issuing of certificates in electronic form bearing a qualified electronic stamp, which will significantly improve the procedures for issuing certificates from the National Criminal Register, as well as the issuing of certificates by other public administrations. The main objective of the amendment is to streamline and shorten the process of issuing information from the National Criminal Register. This objective is to be achieved in particular by introducing into the Act of 14 June 1960 the Code of Administrative Procedure the possibility of issuing certificates issued in electronic form not only by a qualified electronic signature but also by a trusted signature, a personal signature or a qualified electronic stamp. This is the novel No. 1 in the article. 1 act. As indicated in the explanatory memorandum of the bill, Seym No 687, a certificate bearing a qualified electronic seal will be a document issued automatically by the electronic system, without human interference, while preserving the authenticity of the certificate and the integrity of the data contained therein. Following the amendment of the Act of 24 May 2000 on the National Criminal Register, Art. 2 novels, entities such as courts, the Court of State, the Constitutional Tribunal, prosecutors, the police and other bodies empowered to conduct criminal and criminal investigations and investigations, i.e. Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Border Guard, State Security Service, National Tax Administration, Central Anti-corruption Office, Internal Surveillance Office, Head of the National Criminal Information Centre, authorities executing judgments in criminal proceedings, tax offences and tax offences, will also be able to obtain information on a person or information about a collective entity on request from the National Criminal Register. Information on requests shall be provided only via the electronic system and shall bear a qualified electronic seal. The explanatory memorandum of the bill indicates that the response to the request will take place automatically, without the participation of the National Criminal Register employee, which will significantly reduce the waiting time for information. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today the arrears in the National Criminal Register cover about 70% If this is about questions to the national office... National Criminal Register. This amendment will reduce this period to 1 day. So that there will be a significant improvement. I would also like to point out that the seal system is already in place in the European Union. I think that the Ministry will benefit from this, too, because it is implementing the European Union's programme and the significant costs of implementing this law will be borne by the European Union. At its meeting, the Commission introduced one amendment, in principle to the title, deleting the word "law." The Commission proposes to adopt a law in the form proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u103	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Bogdan Borusewicz, to present a proposal from the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate is a legislator, but it is also the Senate's role to correct the errors that occur in the Sejm. In fact, in the Seym quite often the principle is that there are no rules. So that's like, uh... amendments are made at second reading, although the Constitution in Article. 119 point 1 clearly states that the Sejm examines the draft law in three readings, so that this disposition is broken, and more and more often. The request of the minority which I have submitted provides for the deletion of the article. 4.9 amendments that have been made without three readings. This had no substantive connection with the bill under consideration, which I have no objections to. But I have reservations about the procedure that is being used more and more commonly. And what I'm trying to say is that I'm gonna pay attention. It is important to put an end to this violation of the principles of correct legislation, the violation of Article. 119 of the Constitution, even if it concerns minor matters. Because it starts with small things, and then someone refers to precedents and extends such action to other things. In this case, Members added articles on the transfer of the entry into force of 2 other laws concerning public limited liability companies and electronic registration proceedings, dated 1 March, by 3 months. Here the justification for, let's say, some situational necessity was not there. In December, this law was passed or the law was passed in the Sejm, and these two additional cases, as it were, were dropped at the time of the second reading. They weren't just about the merit of the bill, they were about... This was a delay in the validity of the provisions of 2 other laws which were to enter into force on 1 March. It was calmly possible to change this date of entry in the normal procedure of 3 readings. Why, though, was this not the case? Well, that's because we're allowing it. I want to say that's enough. In the Seym, where most of the law and justice have, maybe... This is a matter of majority, and here most have opposition. 3 judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal concerning this way, this mode of work, the defective mode, do not help and do not create a situation in which we respect the Constitution and respect the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. The judgment of 24 March 2004, the signature of Act K37/03, states that the objective pursued by Rule 3 of the readings is to examine the draft law as closely and thoroughly as possible and as a consequence to eliminate the risk of under-work or randomness of solutions adopted in the course of the legislative work. On this assumption, it must be stated that the principle of three readings means that the Sejm has to consider the same draft law three times in substance rather than merely technical terms. Other judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, i.e. Judgment of 24 March 2009, K53/07, and judgment of 7 November 2013, K31/12, from other points of view, say the same thing. The kind of situation that most people in the Seym can afford should not be allowed by the majority in the Senate. I therefore submit a request from the minority to delete these provisions, to delete the article. 4.9. The government should realise that the Senate does not accept this violation of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u105	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Mr. Marshal?]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u106	I just want to complete my statement. In the committee, by majority... well, Senator Borusewicz's arguments were not supported. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, this is clear, hence the minority's conclusion.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u107	The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: Thank you.]] Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There aren't any remote questions? There isn't. So I'm opening... [[Senator Tyszkiewicz.]] Yes? Oh, I'm sorry, Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz. It's remote. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question. I mean, maybe I'd like to make an amendment, but first I'd like to consult the Ministry. The point is that it is appropriate, in order to harmonise the terminology used in the law, to amend the provisions of this Law by replacing it in the article. 1 word "form" on "form." Maybe I'll give you a reason. The amendment mentioned shows that both the recently adopted law on electronic services and the provisions which this law will amend, including the Code of Administrative Procedure, harmonise the definition of the electronic document rather than the electronic document used so far. According to the literature-based view of use in the regulations of C.P.A. and in other laws the term "electronic document form' is appropriate. The concept of "form' refers to the expression of the content of the information document it contains. Maybe I'm not going to further develop it. Could the Minister comment on such a possible amendment, so that instead of the form, there would be a form?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u109	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u110	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, of course, this is a legitimate amendment and we are not pressing charges against this proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u111	Thank you very much. The question you ask is Senator Alexander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u112	Thank you. Minister, I actually have two questions. I understand that these were amendments tabled by Members, but I can imagine that they were, however, consulted with the Ministry. I have two questions. What was the ratio legis one by one of these amendments? What are they doing, practically? And second question: why didn't the Ministry do it in a normal way?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u113	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u114	Thank you very much. Firstly, these amendments do not change a word in the contents of the Code. They only change the time of entry into force of the proposed amendments. Here is the first argument for the constitutionality of these amendments, which in the position of the Marshal... Art. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm do not explicitly limit the scope of the amendments made by Members during the second reading. On the other hand, the article. The laws, I repeat, do not regulate in any way the content, the matter of the code, but relate only to the term itself. Why is this term important? First of all, the implementation of the rules has such an impact on the functioning of a simple public limited company and eKRS, that it requires the adaptation of the IT system, requires appropriate training. A legislative proposal as suggested by the marshal... That would be at least six months' work. Due to the pandemic period, it is not possible to carry out the whole legislative procedure within such a short period of time to run this system. It's about running a system that will serve all of us. We'll agree to that. - It's In fact, it is not contested here. That the bill is good and necessary. Both electronic judicial proceedings, eKRS and issues relating to a simple public limited liability company are of great importance to entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs are waiting for this, and we want to prepare the best possible system for them to use it. In addition, I would like to point out that there is a link between the submission and the amendments tabled. Ladies and gentlemen, let's see that both things concern registers. The submission and amendments concern registers. That's one thing. Secondly, these registers are the responsibility of the Minister of Justice, the Minister is responsible for them. Finally, thirdly, it is about electronic systems that operate registers. The same people control them from the judicial IT department. I repeat: this pandemic situation has made us have to make these changes in this mode. Please take into account the reasons and needs underlying this good law, which is needed for all citizens, in particular for entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u115	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, the Senators of Sweden, Godyla, Kołacz-Leszczyńska and Brejza made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. There are no legislative proposals. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law The text of the Act is contained in print No 299 and the Commission's reports In the letters No 299 A and 299 B. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Aleksander Potoj, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! The purpose of the Act is to include, by amending the Law on Criminal Procedure, 2 European Commission proposals addressed to Poland under the infringement procedure concerning the finding of incomplete implementation in the national legal order of 2 Directives: the 2012 European Parliament and Council Directives and the December 2011 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. It must be acknowledged that these directives have been overdue, so to speak, for quite a long time. The amendments introduced by this Act consist in adding new articles to the Code of Criminal Procedure, Article. 49b and Art. 52a, which aims to clarify and clarify provisions containing procedural guarantees for victims. The entry into force of these changes will result in the extension of the specific standards applied in criminal proceedings to children who are victims, to persons under the age of 18, to persons whose age cannot be determined, e.g. aliens whose identity is unknown if their physical and mental characteristics indicate that they are not adults. The Senate Legislative Office stated that the Act raises no legislative objections. After the vote, the committee shall unanimously recommend to the Senate that the attached resolution be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u117	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u118	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Legislative Commission dealt with the Act mentioned at its meeting on 11 January. The amendment of the law at the meeting was discussed by Minister Marcin Warchoł. He pointed out that the purpose of the law, as Mr Pociej also referred to, was to take into account 2 European Commission proposals addressed to Poland in the framework of the infringement procedure concerning the finding of incomplete implementation in the national legal order of the 2012 Directive of the Parliament and of the European Council concerning the support and protection of victims of crime and the 2011 Directive of Parliament and of the Council on combating sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography. President Alexander Pociej has already discussed how these directives will be implemented. I can add that during the discussions at the meeting of the Legislative Commission, a representative of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration supported the proposed legislative solutions. The representative of the Ombudsman's Office, Mr Marcin Mrowicki, supported the idea but raised objections on the correctness of the implementation of the so-called victims' directives, indicating, inter alia, failure to provide an interpreter or assistance within the meaning of instruction for persons with mental disabilities, no possibility to challenge a decision to refuse to provide an interpreter, no guarantee of the participation of a sign language translator outside the courtroom in contacts with a proxy or defender, in his assessment of the disability of the solution provided for in Article. 46 k.p.k. as a substitute for a closed civil action in criminal proceedings. I have declared cooperation with both the Ombudsman, the representative of the Ombudsman and the Ministry of Justice on a possible legislative initiative of the Senate, which would guarantee more procedural rights for victims of crime than under the law at issue. This motion was also supported by Senator Magdalena Kochan. We also did this so as not to hinder the process of this law. She is extremely needed, especially since Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, during the committee's discussion, also drew attention to how late we are implementing these 2 directives. I would also like to thank you here. Both the representative of the Ombudsman and Minister Marcin Warchoł have declared their possible participation and involvement in the possible adoption of the Senate legislative initiative, which would complement or strengthen the guarantees I have been talking about. The representative of the Senate Legislative Office did not have any comments on the bill, and the committee unanimously accepted the proposal that I had submitted for adoption without amendments. For my part, I also recommend the adoption of this law without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u119	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Thank you, Minister Warchoł. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Then I'll open the discussion. Senator Bogdan Klich. You're welcome. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich. [[Voice from the room: Remotely...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] We have no contact with the senator right now. So I'll keep you posted. That the list of speakers was exhausted. For the record, Senators Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor and Alexander Szwed made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Before we get to the next point, there's still a message. Ladies and gentlemen, at 4 p.m., we will be voting on the Budget Act. We proceed to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the law on the principles of legal cooperation in criminal matters between the Republic of Poland and the territory to which the criminal law belonging to the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice of Taiwan applies. The text of the Act is contained in print No 301 and the committee's report In print No 301 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Danuta Jazłowiecki, to present a report to the committee. [[Mr. Marshal...]] [[Disruption during the speech]] [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Can't be heard.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator, we're having trouble communicating, you can't hear... Hello, hello... [[Disruption during the speech]] Senator, I hear that... you're probably talking, but we're only hearing some single sounds. I don't know what the problem is... [[Weak connection throughput, you have to turn off the cameras.]] Now we can't hear anything, Senator. [[It's normal. It's...]] Oh, that's better. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Yes.]] [[Now...]] Hello, Senator? [[Can you hear me?]] Oh, now I do. [[Can you hear me? Hello?]] Yes, Senator, we've regained communication now. You're welcome. [[Now the senator can't hear you. There must be some symmetry.]] Now the senator's lost, we've recovered... Technical break to solve this problem. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Thank you very much...]] [[Disruption during the speech]] [[...legal cooperation in criminal matters between the Republic of Poland...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm asking you to be patient for a moment, because this is a statement from a few minutes ago, which has now reached us... [[Disruption during the speech]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: We can move on to the next...]] [[Voice from the Chamber: There is a rapporteur...]] [[...there are all who should be. If you need a formal conclusion like that, I'll file it, and if not, it's just a caucus request...]] You don't need that conclusion, but let's just wait a second... If I could solve this problem in a few minutes, I wouldn't disturb it anymore... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator, do we hear you? I'm asking you, Senator Jazłowiecka. Maybe you could try turning off the camera, maybe it'll make a difference. That's my signal from your IT guy. [[Can you... can you hear me better?]] [[Disruption during the speech]] Miss Senator, unfortunately, we still have problems, we can't hear you. We will try to solve this problem with the help of computer scientists, and for now we will move on to the next item on the agenda. We'll return to your point after considering it, once this technical problem has been resolved. Okay? We then proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the scope of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, drawn up in Istanbul on 11 May 2011. The text of the Act is contained in print No 300 and the report of the committee In print No 300 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Alexander Pociej, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. The purpose of the Act is to agree by Parliament that the President of the Republic of Poland will amend the scope of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, drawn up in Istanbul on 11 May 2011. The amendments would concern: firstly, amendments to 2 reservations to Article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 and Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) By ratifying the 2015 Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, Poland raised 4 reservations. Convention in Article. 79. 1 provides for a procedure for your confirmation of the validity of reservations every 5 years. It was therefore necessary to agree to the extension of the Convention after 5 years. The remaining changes were de facto due to changes in our legislation, due to the need to adapt these reservations at this time to the changes in the rules. In the opinion of the committee which recommends that the attached draft resolution be adopted by the High Senate, these problems should be addressed as far as possible and these changes should be addressed in such a way as to enable the Convention to continue to function and to adapt its reservations to the amendments. During the work and analysis of this submission, our Legislative Office noted the omission of certain editorial units in the provisions. These are purely legislative problems. And they were included in the one amendment that received and the approval of the government party, and the consent of all the senators who were sitting on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u121	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Family and Social Policy and the Minister for Justice were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Do government representatives wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the government's position? Minister Anna Schmidt, Secretary of State, Ministry of Family and Social Policy. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u122	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I think that the content of the reservations that were presented in the course of parliamentary work, both in the Sejm and the Senate, does not require comment, does not require clarification. During the joint committee meeting, the senators took note of the content of these reservations, which, as the President mentioned in his speech, the Polish government recommends in view of the impending expiry date of the objections. That's the term. I'll remind you. On 31 January this year, 5 years later. I'll just refer to the work during the meeting. Indeed, during the committee meeting, the senators proposed editorial amendments which really do not affect the content of the document but merely clarify the content of the raised objections from the editorial point of view. Of course, as a representative of the applicants, I have expressed a positive opinion. We very much agree with these editorial amendments. I will only briefly say that point 1 has been clarified in such a way that the reservations which are subject to change, i.e. to Article. 30 and 44, were broken into 2 separate points by adding point 1a. The order of paragraphs 2 and 3 has also been changed. Point 3 in its present form was clarified, following the suggestion of senate legislators, by extending the content, by adding the fourth indent to complete the wording of the reservations. Of course, the government's position is positive and we recommended that these comments be adopted at the committee meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u123	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The common denominator for many actions, decisions or announcements of the PiS government seems chaos. The lack of clarity, often also the coherence of activities in most areas, is a hallmark of the activities of the PiS government. The effects of such a situation can affect and in many cases already affect to reduce democratic standards and the quality of lawmaking. It suffers from the foundation of Western civilization, human rights. While the law itself presented to us in Senate print 300 does not raise our objections, it seems unusual that, when parliamentary work is underway on this document, on the RE Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, it turns out that the status of this document is at least unclear or questionable by the PiS Government. The confusion around the Istanbul Convention has been going on since the spring of last year, when in May the Deputy Minister of Justice called it gender gibberish and suggested the need to withdraw Poland from the international agreement. From the very beginning, there has also been a clear double voice from government circles to public opinion. On the one hand, at the beginning of June, the Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy assured the senators that no work was being carried out concerning the termination of the Istanbul Convention and, on the other hand, not more than a month later, the head of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy denied this assurance, stating explicitly that the work preparing Poland for the termination of this document was ongoing in the government. Finally, in order to lead to even greater chaos in this case, the Prime Minister sent the Istanbul Convention to the Constitutional Tribunal at the end of July, so that, as he stated, the Court could point out whether to repeal the ideological provisions. Apart from any legal doubt about such a decision, it should also be noted that this movement did not cause the aforementioned bivocality to disappear, as government representatives at a recent meeting in the Senate committee continued to present 2 opposing positions. There is a lack of any form of dialogue, as even the official invitation sent by the Senators of the Republic to the Minister of Family and Social Policy has been completely ignored. Nor can the argument that the Polish law on violence be absolutely sufficient be accepted and that therefore the Istanbul Convention would become redundant. This is a purely demagogical interpretation, because the Convention merely sets the course of action and creates a foundation for the protection of victims of violence. The prevention of violence, anti-violence education, the protection of victims of violence, the effective prosecution of perpetrators of violence and the pursuit of life in a non-violence state cannot be dependent on any political game or ideological pressure. Otherwise, we will embezzle the idea of human rights and enable enclaves to be created where violence will be acceptable or at least find social acceptance. In the 21st century, this is an absolutely unacceptable situation, and any ambiguity and conflicting communication from the government leads to such a threat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u125	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u126	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Very briefly, I will complete what Senator Mateck said. It so happens that in the Council of Europe I am the head of the largest faction of the parliamentary assembly, the whole forum, and I would like to say how important it is that Poland stays with this convention. The important thing for us is not to show outside... not to open a new front. I'd consider it a huge mistake to do that. For six years now, we have opened up small or larger fronts on the rule of law in international relations. The truth is that our internal solutions are now At least in writing, at the level of the legislation, they contain guarantees that sometimes go even further than what is enshrined in the Convention, but the wording of its rejection would have a very negative impact on the outside. Why? Because there we are not dealing with public opinion, which knows how things are in Poland. This will be perceived as a gesture, and this gesture will be interpreted unambiguously. So that Poland again narrows legal guarantees for its citizens. Therefore, I would very much warn against releasing such information to the public, because it would not affect the image of Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u127	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senators of Sweden, Kołacz-Leszczyńska and Gromek made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters. I would like to remind you that this is a draft law implementing the Constitutional Tribunal's ruling. The draft is contained in print 185 and the committee's report In print No 185 S. The other one's been corrected. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, to present a joint report of the draft law to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u128	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Ministers! The joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, the meeting on this project, took place on 15 December 2020. The draft law is an adaptation of the system of law to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of April 2020 on judicial costs in civil matters in so far as electronic reproving proceedings exclude the possibility for the defendant to obtain an exemption from judicial costs. In the view of the Constitutional Court, this is incompatible with the Article. 45 Constitutions in conjunction with Article. 77. The joint committees adopted a draft legislative initiative in this area with an earlier amendment. In its judgment, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional Tribunal held that, in so far as the possibility for the defendant to obtain an exemption from judicial costs is excluded from the electronic reprimand procedure, this is incompatible, as I said, with Article. 45 in conjunction with Article 45. 77 constitutions. It is important to bear in mind that electronic reminders are one of the two exceptions provided for by the Law because it cannot be required to exempt from legal costs. The essence of this procedure is a quick ruling. In view of the fact that electronic reprimanding is optional, the legislator, by introducing this solution, has made the assumption that the full exclusion in this procedure of the possibility of applying for exemption from judicial costs does not affect the rights of the claimant as he has the option to choose the procedure for the exercise of his rights. On the other hand, as regards the defendant, it was assumed that the defendant would not bear any costs because the opposition to the order for payment is not subject to payment. Only that the argument was not entirely correct, since in particular a situation in which the effectiveness of the opposition would require the conduct of evidence was omitted. The defendant may not, at the same time, have sufficient funds to cover expenditure related to the need for certain evidence. In issuing its ruling, the Constitutional Tribunal took the view that, where an obligation to pay court costs is imposed and there is a state obligation to pay them, there should also be an effective system of exemption of the parties to proceedings to ensure that the right of access to the court is granted. According to settled case-law of the Court, economic barriers may restrict access to justice to the extent that distorts the right to court. What do we propose? The proposed solution is the introduction of a new provision, Article. 98b, which will determine that expenditure is borne by the State Treasury in electronic proceedings. The law in question is expected to lead, first of all, to the fact that the defendant's status in the proceedings will not be affected by any fiscal obstacles to access to court, and thus the system of law will be brought into line with the judgment of the Constitutional Court. Ladies and gentlemen, the project has received the support of the Supreme Bar Council. The National Judicial Council and the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights have reported that they do not comment on it. The Supreme Court has expressed its opinion that the proposed amendment does not affect the objections in the context of the operative part of the Court's ruling or the arguments relied on in its statement of reasons. The Minister of Justice also informed, in agreement with the direction proposed by the Constitutional Tribunal, that issues governed by the Senate project were the subject of legislative work in the Ministry of Justice. However, I would say that these works, as we understand them, are most likely at the stage of either work within the Ministry or inter-ministerial arrangements, so we would like to persuade you to do so, and since the Senate has a project ready, we recommend its adoption. Of course, if it turns out that the Ministry will come out with its initiative in the future, these projects will always be able to meet in the Seym. If there was no such initiative, the Senate legislative initiative already, here and now, is the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Senate project has a positive impact on entrepreneurs, citizens, who, being in financial difficulties and having the status of the parties, in particular the defendant, will be able to benefit from the positive consequences of this regulation in terms of exemption from judicial costs in the context of expenditure incurred. Therefore, on behalf of the joint committees, I recommend that this draft be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u129	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I remind you that the Legislative Commission has also authorised Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to represent it. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? No. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of question to the representative of the government present at the meeting on this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There are no volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. I would remind you that legislative proposals can only include changes aimed at implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal and their necessary consequences. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill, this third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Excuse me, can we try to connect with the senator and get back to point nine? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] We therefore refer to item 9 of the agenda: the law on the principles of legal cooperation in criminal matters between the Republic of Poland and the territory to which the criminal law belonging to the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice of Taiwan applies. The text of the Act is contained in print No 301 and the committee's report In print No 301 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Danuta Jazłowiecki, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u130	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The Law on the Principles of Legal Cooperation in Criminal Matters between the Republic of Poland and the territory to which criminal law belonging to the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice of Taiwan applies refers to the agreement. This agreement is concluded between the representative offices: the Polish Office in Taipei and the Taipei Representative Office in Poland. This provides a basis for establishing the principles for the mobilisation of legal cooperation in criminal matters and, once adopted, will be introduced into the system of national law. According to Art. 2 of the Act whenever a foreign State or another State is referred to in criminal law and liability for crimes committed abroad, the territory to which the criminal law of the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice of Taiwan applies must therefore be understood to mean the territory to which it applies. The agreement itself includes 19 articles, only criminal cases belonging to the jurisdiction of the courts and the prosecutor's office... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...from statements or statements, including in the form of videoconferences; the provision of documents and evidence in kind; the establishment of the place of residence and identity of persons; the delivery of documents; the execution of requests for search and detention; the inspection of things and places; assistance in proceedings relating to freezing and asset loss. It also covers extradition, the transfer of convicted persons, the provision of information on the law and the practice of its application, and the provision of information on the prosecution and prevention of criminal offences. The Agreement provides for direct cooperation between designated central authorities, without mediation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. According to Art. 16 and Article 16 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 17 agreements will require an appropriate national procedure, which on the Polish side will mean a possible amendment of the law, specifically The text of the agreement annexed to this Act. The Agreement provides for direct cooperation between designated authorities. As regards the entry into force of the Act, it shall enter into force 14 days after the date of the announcement, but cooperation with Taiwan shall be possible only from the date of entry into force of the Agreement, in accordance with the Article. Point 16 (2) of the Agreement. Of course, the date of entry into force of the agreement, in accordance with Article. 3 of the Act, will be made public by the Minister of Justice by means of a notice published in the Polish Monitor. At the meeting of the Joint Committees, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, the members of the two committees unanimously adopted the draft law presented at its meeting on 5 January. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u131	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There's no... There's a question. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Just a quick question. What happened before that agreement? On what basis? Did we give ourselves legal aid? And if we gave it, how often did that happen?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u133	Please respond to Minister Marcin Romanowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u134	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! With regard to the answer to this question, before and at present, because this is the current state, we act on the principle of reciprocity, based on the general principles of international law. As regards certain statistics, for example, in 2016 there were 8 Polish and 1 Taiwanese applications, in 2017 there were 4 Polish and 5 Taiwanese, in 2018 8 Polish and 2 Taiwanese applications. So this really isn't a very intense exchange when it comes to law enforcement in this case. This agreement first of all causes that our proposals will be dealt with, will be implemented on a non-reciprocity basis, which means in practice that the time taken to deal with applications from Poland lasts about a year, only will be considered first. Also with regard to the increase in crime, especially... Poland is, as the Taiwanese side tells us, the place where cybercrime crimes are committed, and this is an area that is unfortunately subject to development. Thanks to this agreement, we are also becoming part of this group of countries which have just such agreements with the territory of Taiwan, such as the United States, France or even the People's Republic of China. The form which was chosen, i.e. the agreement transposed into the Polish legal order on the basis of such a law, was already used earlier, in 2006 with regard to the same agreement between finance ministers on the avoidance of double taxation. So I am convinced that this agreement, although there is no really so much luck in these matters, will, firstly, help to speed up their handling and secondly, to improve the legal trade between Poland and Taiwan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u135	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Court of State. I would like to remind you that this project has been submitted by the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and is included in print No 224 and the committee's report In print 224 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Alexander Potoj, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. The proposed amendment boils down to the amendment of a single article in one of the older, unamended laws, as it is the 1982 Law on the Court of State. Art is changed. 27. It is to be replaced by the following: The Court of State shall adopt the Rules of Procedure of the Court of State by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of members of the Court of State. 2. The Rules of Procedure of the Court of State are published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. High Izbo! The purpose of this law is to amend the body entitled to issue and to place in the system of sources of law the Rules of Procedure of the Court of State. Instead, so far by the Sejm, the Rules of Procedure of the Court of State will be issued by the Court of State itself. The consequence of this amendment is the recognition by the Court of Justice of the Rules of Procedure as an act of an internal nature. The 1982 Sejm's Resolution on the Rules of Procedure of the Court of State in the absence of a clear division into sources of law of a universal nature in that system of sources of law and normative acts of an internal nature did not fall exclusively within the latter group. The draft is a consequence of the petition of the P9-52/19 submitted to the Senate, which proposes that the Article. 27 make a different sound. By letter dated 27 July 2020, the President of the Court of State gave a favourable opinion on the proposal contained in the petition, which was limited to the amendment of the body empowered to issue the Rules of Procedure. The draft assumes that the Rules of Procedure will be issued by the Court of State itself, not by its President, as proposed by the petitioner. There were two ways to go. Our committee unanimously went this way. In view of the proposed amendment, it was necessary to specify the procedure under which the Court of State will adopt its rules of procedure. It was also considered appropriate that this regulation would be published in the Polish Monitor. The subject matter of this law is not covered by European Union law. Finally, I would like to say that the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions at their joint meeting on 15 December 2020 considered, at first reading, the draft law presented by the applicants, introduced amendments to it and requested that the Senate adopt a uniform draft law and a draft resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm. I would like to say that the committees have authorized Senator Robert Mamytov to represent the Senate in further work on this project. This project did not cause controversy at any stage. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u137	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Robert Mammothov. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u138	Short question, Mr. Marshal. Will the Court of State have to come together three months after the adoption of this law in order to adopt the rules of procedure, or will it be able to do so at any time?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u139	Of course, he will have to gather and lay down the rules. Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u140	Thank you very much. There are no more questions to ask. Does a government representative wish to speak on the draft submitted? [[Voice from the room: There is no representative here...]] There's no representative? Then why is it in the script? Yeah, okay. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. So, are we still considering point 13? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the law of the Hunting Law. I would remind you that this is a draft law implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. It is included in print No 214 and the committee's report In print No 214 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Adam Szejnfeld, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have the honour to present to you a report from the Joint Legislative Committee, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. We celebrated on December 15th. The report is contained in print No 214 S. Let me remind you that the original printing is, of course, printing number 214. The project we are talking about is aimed at implementing the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 8 May 2019, sygn. Act K 45/16, operative part of which has been announced in the Journal of Laws, item. 897. The aim of the project is to extend the right to compensation for hunting damages also to a case in which the landowner who claimed compensation had previously refused to allow the construction by the hunting circuit manager or its owner of the equipment or to carry out procedures to prevent damage. This whole principle is to apply when there is no causal link between this damage and the owner's refusal. The Constitutional Tribunal held that Article. Paragraph 48 (3) of the Hunting Law, which governs this, is incompatible with Article. Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3rd Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Art. 48 point 3 of the Hunting Law provides that compensation shall not be granted to owners of damaged crops or crops if they have not agreed to the construction of equipment or to the implementation of procedures to prevent damage, even in any case, even if the lack of consent did not have any effect on the occurrence of damage. A Constitution in my earlier article. Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 refers to property rights, protects property rights and in Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 lays down the principle of proportionality of the legislator's interference with the sphere of citizens' rights, including, of course, the right to property. There are important, specific criteria, namely: first, State security; second, public order; third, environmental protection; fourth, health protection; fifth, protection of public morality; sixthly, protection of the freedoms and rights of others while preserving the criteria of proportionality, relevance and necessity. In that case, I would say, given the constitutional provisions and the criteria that I have deliberately reminded you of, the Constitutional Tribunal has recognised the article. 48 point 3 of Hunting Law for non-constitutional reasons. In this case, these criteria were not met. The provision exempts the tenant or the manager of the hunting circuit from liability for damage even if there was no causal link between the lack of consent of the owner, the owner of the land and the resulting and caused damage. In conclusion, I would like to inform the High House that the joint committees have adopted this novel almost unanimously, because 38 senators voted in favour, there was no one who would vote against it. And we have noted that one senator has abstained. To conclude, Mr. Marshal. 'Cause I don't want to spend any more time with my extra performance. I want to make an amendment, or actually two drafting amendments. So I'm handing them over.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u142	Thank you. [[Thank you kindly.]] Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I remind you that the Legislative Commission has authorized her to represent Senator Adam Szejnfeld. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No questions. Is the government representative... [[Voice from the room: He said in a minute. I don't know if we're taking a break.]] I have information that a government representative is on his way and will be literally in a minute, so that technical interruption until the Minister or Minister arrives. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 37 to 15 minutes 38]] I'm reopening the session. A representative of the government has arrived at the meeting. [[Talking in the O.R.]] So, Minister, does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? Minister? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Edward Sulphur: Yes.]] You're welcome to the podium. Hello, Minister Edward Siarka, Secretary of State, Representative of the Government for Foreign Affairs. forestry and hunting in the Ministry of Climate and Environment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u143	Dear Marshal, High Senate! Me without a mask as a healer. I hope it's safe... I would like to thank you very much for the Senate initiative to amend the 48 (3). As regards the issue that is addressed in this provision, I would like to draw attention to the problem of concepts. I believe that this should be harmonised, the concepts in the report, in point 3, must certainly be harmonised. It's about the concepts of "farming' and "flooding'. This case has already been discussed here. I would like to point out that these concepts are not the same. Well, agricultural crops we understand, as defined in the Polish language, as good nature. Wikipedia, on the other hand, defines agricultural fetuses as a biologically natural product of the revived nature, having its vital source in soil, air or water, from which it draws the resources needed for the development of the organism and its future generations. In turn the crop is, as defined in the Polish language, the result of cultivation, i.e. fruit, grain, etc. Wikipedia, on the other hand, defines the yield as a mass of useful plant organs collected from 1 ha. So that the yield here is understood more as the determination of the weight, expressed in tonnes per hectare. We propose, as the Ministry responsible for this part of the administration department, that this provision should be read as follows: owners of damaged crops or agricultural fruits who have not agreed to the construction by the tenant or district manager of hunting equipment or to the prevention of damage, except for damage caused by hunting and damage which has arisen regardless of the construction of the equipment or the operation for which the holder of the damaged crops or And here's the change we're proposing, the agricultural fetuses didn't agree... In the report at the end of this point 3, you write about agricultural crops. We believe that this should be harmonised and correctly written. This provision should refer not to agricultural crops, but to agricultural fetuses, this is a uniform concept, more broadly understood. Such a change, so to speak, would bring us into line with the laws of the Hunting Law. It is difficult to say where the concept of "agricultural crops" came from. But I'm sure we should standardize that. We're talking about crops and fetuses. Thank you. If there are any questions, I will, of course, answer you. The issue of damage is also a big problem at the moment because we are in a pandemic period and there are difficulties in running collective hunting. The individual hunting wheels report very serious problems due to the fact that hunting plans are not being implemented and therefore there are also difficulties in paying hunting damages. I will merely remind you that compensation for damages paid from the funds of the tenants or managers of hunting circuit in the season of 2019 and 2020 was PLN 104 million 209 thousand, while compensation for hunting damages paid from the state budget was PLN 16 million 851 thousand. These amounts in relation to 2018 have jumped, actually by half. These are very large amounts. Well, here I think I'm ahead of any questions that concern damage and the whole area of the hunting economy. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u144	Thank you, Minister. Stay at the podium, because I already have requests for questions. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Zdzisław Pupa. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u145	Minister, you said you'd like to file... I understand you want to make some amendments, Minister, yes? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Edward Sulfur: Again?]] Do you want to make an amendment to this bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u146	I can't make an amendment, can I? It's... [[But such a suggestion...]] I suggest that this record... I think the Senate Legislative Office is probably gonna say the same thing. The suggestion from the Ministry of Climate and Environment is that... [[Minister, the question is short. Do you care if there's an amendment?]] Yeah, yeah. If we want it... [[Mr. Marshal, I need you to sign me up as the rapporteur for this amendment, okay? Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u147	Okay, Mr. Senator, just prepare this amendment, because you have to report it in writing during the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u148	The Minister has not tabled this amendment before, therefore... And I have another question: do the amendments tabled by Mr Szejnfeld take account of your proposal or not? Don't you know the Minister of Corrections?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u149	I think if the senator speaks, it'll be easier for me to answer that question. I think there's a consensus that... we understand intent. And that's an essential point. However, there was a question of logic and correctness of the wording contained in this provision of point 3.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u150	Ladies and gentlemen, at this point, there's a bit of a procedural problem, because if any of your senators want to come forward with an amendment that's on the way... [[Senator Szejnfeld wants to.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Edward Sulfur: That would make it easier for me to relate, wouldn't it?]] Well, I'm considering right now... [[Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, ……]] At 4:00, we're supposed to vote on the budget, and I was asked to take a 15-minute break... [[Mr. Marshal, but...]] But don't interrupt me because... [[I'm sorry.]] ...you can't do that. [[I'm sorry.]] Therefore, I suggest that at this point we stop the process of this point and return to it after the budget has been voted, then it will be possible to make these amendments calmly. [[Mr. Marshal, the amendment is complex. I'd like a vote.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u151	I volunteer because the minister wasn't there when I had the floor and I was making amendments. The codification amendment is a nickname... Besides, the Minister said it wasn't about the intention, direction and purpose of the bill, because we have no opinions about it... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Edward Sulfur: There is no doubt.]] Yes, sir. But it's about what concept to use. We with the Senate's Legislative Office have accepted the direction of codification and have therefore tabled an amendment... [[Yes, sir.]] ...which will harmonise these concepts in the article. 48 (3). Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u152	Good. But there are, Mr. Minister, senators asking... [[Senator Jackowski...]] Senator Szejnfeld? Is that... [[The voice from the room:... and Senator Czerwinski were still reporting.]] [[I volunteered to say that, so I quit.]] Good. Then you're Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have this question: do you think this bill will settle all these issues? Because it's always disputes between farmers and hunting wheels. Is she going to calm things down or not? In my district, this topic often appears at meetings with farmers. I know that we have already discussed this issue on several occasions during various amendments. There is no, as we know, ideal solutions that take into account the interests of each side, because they are always choices and procedures. I have a question: will this move towards calming moods, or is progress not expected in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u154	I mean, the rule itself in this area that we are talking about certainly meets the expectations of farmers. Just so we're clear. And here's our full agreement. I, as the minister responsible for this area, try to build such a message that hunters, i.e. hunters, all the time in their activities, must also pay attention to this aspect of the agricultural economy, i.e., let's say that they simply ensure that during the performance of their duties they do not increase the losses that farmers are suffering from crop damage. Because often when hunting, it can happen that one of the hunters, especially in springtime, will gain prey as a result of the shooting and e.g. He's gonna drive his car into cultivation. In springtime, when the area is wet, such losses can be very large, even greater than those caused by the game. This record is certainly the answer to farmers' expectations. Let us remember, however, that the area of hunting damage, Mr. Senator, is so large that we only touch its parts here. There is still the satisfaction of farmers for the compensation they have paid, which is certainly a much bigger problem. We don't handle this case with this record. There are a lot of areas that are conflicting when it comes to the payment of hunting damages, and, as I said, in advance of such questions, the number of hunting damages paid has actually doubled in just 2019 in the hunting season. Payments exceeded PLN 104 million. Last year, in 2018, PLN 61 million was paid out. This concerns both the damage borne by the tenants and managers of the hunting circuit and the amounts paid by the State budget for the game which is subject to strict protection.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, I'm forced to take a break right now. We have a vote on the budget bill. Dismissed until 4:10 p.m. Once the budget has been voted out, we will return to this point. I know there's a controversy about this amendment, and I don't want us to neglect anything here. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 52 to 16 minutes 11]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u156	I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen of the senators, please take your seats. Please proceed to the test vote. We will now conduct a test vote to see how our electronic system works. I therefore ask that any vote be given only to confirm the presence. Please state the results of the vote. 92 senators voted. We assume that so many are currently attending the meeting. [[Voting No 4]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I ask you to refrain from talking. Mr and Mrs Senators, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point on the second reading of the draft resolution on strengthening cooperation with the United States and considering it as item 16 of the agenda, before the point on the draft resolution at the end of the Year of St. John Paul II. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. [[There's an objection, Mr. Marshal. I object.]] Senator Czerwiński objects.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u157	It's a short argument. First of all... [[But you are referring, as I understand it, to this resolution, right?]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Good.]] Firstly, we do not have the opinion of the Foreign Minister in this regard, and this case certainly concerns foreign affairs. Secondly, the Senate of the Republic of Poland is not an organ which conducts Polish foreign policy [[We need an explanation...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, let's not start the discussion. I will remember the words of Senator Czerwinski. We are now voting on my proposal. We are voting on the inclusion on the agenda of the item on the second reading of the draft resolution on strengthening cooperation with the United States and considering it as point 16. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 51 votes for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 5]] [[Applause]] I will refrain from commenting, but strengthening cooperation with the United States... the fact that someone was against is a little weird. Well, the discussion will be in the process of discussing the point. We are returning to the first item on the agenda: the budget law for 2021. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 294 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to submit a report to the committee. Let me remind you that today, we are about to vote on the budgetary amendments, because this is the last day the Senate is dealing with this issue. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u159	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, I present information from the work of our committee today on the amendments tabled to the Budget Law 2021. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finance recommends that the High House adopt the proposals set out in point 1 of Section II.5, 7, 8, 10.17. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator Kwiatkowski, could you please move a little to the right or to the left... [[Voice from the room: Rather to the right...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Left, left! [[Voice from the room: We prefer the centre...]] Right! [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[That's a good point. Independence is a virtue in itself.]] .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. At the same time, I inform the High House that minority applicants have withdrawn their proposal to adopt a law without amendments and that none of the members of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance have accepted this proposal with a willingness to present it to the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u160	Thank you very much. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senators of the rapporteur still want to speak? I would like to remind you that during the discussion the conclusions were presented by pleno titulo senators: Jan Filip Libicki, Marek Martynowski, Lidia Staroń, Tomasz Grodzki, Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Kazimierz Kleina, Wojciech Cielany, Beata Małecka-Libera, Joanna Sekuła, Barbara Zdrojewska, Bogdan Zdrojewski, Halina Bieda, Jerzy Wcisła, Ryszard Świlski, Rafał Ambrozik, Alicja Chybicka, Sławomir Rybicki, Ryszard Bober, Artur Dunin, Danuta Jazłowiecka, Beniamin Godyla, Marcin Bosacki, Jadwiga Rotnicka, Leszek Czarnabaj, Krzysztof Brejza, Paweł Arndt, Adam Szejnfeld, Janusz Gromek, Stanisław Gawłowski, Agnieszka, Agnieszka, Agnieszka Gorgnie-Komorecz, Komorzywka, Jannie-Komorzywka, Dobrzymorzymorzymorzymaryw-Gał-Gał-Gał-Gał-Gałek, Sławiecz, Janecz, Janecz, Gawska, Gawska, Sławał-Garzew-Gał-Gał-Gał-Gał-Gał-Gał-Gał-Gał-Gał-Gał-Gał-Gał-Gał-Gał-Gał-Gał-Gał-Gawecz, Janecz, Janał-Gał-Gał-Gał-Gał-Gał-Gał-Gał-Gał-Gał-Gał-Gał-Gał-Gał-Gał-Gaczka, In addition, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki was the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance. I would like to remind you that the request of a minority of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, as set out in Section I of print No 294 Z, has been withdrawn. Does any of your senators want to maintain the withdrawal? I take it you didn't. Before the vote, let me remind you that in accordance with the Rule. 223 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland can submit amendments to the budget law, it is not possible to reject it in its entirety. That's the interpretation of the law. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, it will be carried out... [[Talking in the O.R.]] We proceed with the vote on the motion... No, no, I'm sorry... As a result of the withdrawal of the proposal from the minority of committees, we are voting on the amendments tabled. If the High Senate authorizes me The amendments are 113 and I will not read the justification for the amendments. If I don't see any objection, I'll think I can do it. Then I will only read who has prepared this amendment. Amendment 1, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 51 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 6]] Amendment 2 of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 53 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 7]] Amendment 3 of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 52 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 8]] Amendment 4 of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? One of the people voting remotely, please check. Thank you. Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 51 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 9]] Attention, Amendment 5 will rule out voting on Amendment 6. Amendment 5 is an amendment by Senators Kazimierz Kleina and Paweł Arndt, supported by a committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 10]] Amendment 7 of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 53 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 11]] Attention, Amendment 8 will rule out voting on Amendment 9. Amendment 8 is an amendment by Senators Krzysztof Kwiatkowski and Kazimierz Kleina, supported by a committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 51 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 12]] Amendment 10 of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 51 votes for, 49 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 13]] Amendment 11 of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 50 for, 49 against. [[Voting No 14]] Amendment 12 of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 53 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 15]] Amendment 13 of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 51 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 16]] Amendment 14 of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 50 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 17]] Amendment 15 of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 51 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 18]] Amendment 16 of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 50 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 19]] Amendment 16 of the committee... This one's been here, I'm sorry. Did we vote on Amendment 16? We voted. Attention, Amendment 17 is excluded from voting on Amendment 18. Amendment 17 is the amendment of Senators Krzysztof Kwiatkowski and Kazimierz Kleina supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 53 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 20]] Amendment 19 of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 51 votes for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 21]] Amendment 20 of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 51 votes for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 22]] Amendment 21 of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 23]] Attention, amendments 22 and 23 should be voted on together. These are the amendments of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Thank you very much. Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 24]] Amendment 24, Senator Jan Filip Libicki, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 25]] Amendment 25, Senator Jan Filip Libicki, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 26]] Amendment 26, Senators Janusz Gromek, Magdalena Kochan and speaking these words, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 50 for, 48 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 27]] Amendment 27, Senators Janusz Gromek, Magdalena Kochan and speaking these words, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 50 for, 47 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 28]] Amendment 28, the same set of senators, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 50 for, 47 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 29]] Amendment 29, Senators Gromek, Kochan and Grodzki, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 50 for, 47 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 30]] Amendment 30, Senators Gromek, Kochan and Grodzki, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 51 votes, 47 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 31]] Amendment 31, the same set of senators, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? One Senator from the remote, please check your transmission. Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 51 votes for, 48 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 32]] Amendment 32, Senator Lydia Staroń, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 53 votes for, 46 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 33]] Amendment 33, Senator Wojciech Necessary. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 6 for, 92 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 34]] Amendment 34, Senators Barbara Zdrojewska and Bogdan Zdrojewski, supported by a committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 51 votes for, 48 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 35]] Amendment 35, Senators of Zdrojewski, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 50 for, 48 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 36]] Amendment 36, Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 51 votes for, 48 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 37]] Amendment 37, Senator Richard Świlski, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 38]] Amendment 38, Senator Jerzy Wcisla, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, 52 in favour, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 39]] Amendment 39, including Senator Jerzy Wcisła, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, 52 in favour, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 40]] Amendment 40, including Senator Jerzy Wcisła, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, 52 in favour, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 41]] Amendment 41, Senator Jerzy Wcissla, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, 52 in favour, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 42]] Amendment 42, including Senator Jerzy Wcisła, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 51 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 43]] Amendment 43, Senators George Vistula and Lydia Staron, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, 52 in favour, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 44]] Amendment 44, Mr. Senator Jerzy Wcisla, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? One person from the remote... Take a look. Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, 52 in favour, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 45]] Amendment 45, Mr. Senator Jerzy Wcisla, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 52 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 46]] Amendment 46, Senator Jerzy Wcisla, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 47]] Amendment 47, traditionally, Mr. Senator Jerzy Wcisla. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Czudowska would like to draw your attention... Thank you very much. Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 48]] Amendment 48, Mr. Senator Jerzy Wcisla, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 50 for, 48 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 49]] Amendment 49, Senator Alicia Chybicka, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 53 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 50]] Amendment 50, Senator Beata Małecka-Libera and Joanna Sekuła, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 51 votes for, 48 against, 1 Senator abstained. [[Voting No 51]] Amendment 51, Senator Beata Małecka-Libera and Joanna Sekuła, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 50 for, 48 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 52]] Amendment 52, Senators Krzysztof Kwiatkowski and Artur Dunin, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 53 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 53]] Amendment 53, Senators Kwiatkowski and Dunin, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 54]] Amendment 54, same senators. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 53 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 55]] Amendment 55, including Senators Kwiatkowski and Dunin, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 56]] Amendment 56, Senators Kwiatkowski and Dunin, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 53 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 57]] Amendment 57, the same senators, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 53 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 58]] As you've noticed, we've exceeded half the vote. Amendment 58, Senators Kwiatkowski and Dunin, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 53 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 59]] And Amendment 59, the last amendment of the same senators, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 53 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 60]] Amendment 60, Senator Halina Poory, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 61]] Amendment 61, Senator Benjamin Godyla and Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 51 votes for, 48 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 62]] Amendment 62, the same senators, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 63]] Amendment 63, Senator Jazłowiecka and Senator Godyla, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 64]] Amendment 64, the same senators. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The vote was 100 senators, 51 votes for, 48 against, with one abstention. [[Voting No 65]] Amendment 65, Senator Jazłowiecka and Senator Godyla, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 66]] Amendment 66, Senator Paul Arndt, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 51 votes for, 48 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 67]] Amendment 67, Senators Tyszkiewicz, Komarnicki and Dowhan, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 68]] Amendment 68, for a change of Senators Tyszkiewicz, Dowhan and Komarnicki, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Senator Klein, Komarnicki and Senator Sagatowska, would you please take a look at... Thank you very much. Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 69]] Amendment 69, the same senators, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 70]] Amendment 70, senators Wadim Tyszkiewicz, Władysław Komarnicki and Robert Dowhan, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 71]] Amendment 71, the same senators, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 72]] Amendment 72, Senators Tyszkiewicz, Komarnicki and Dowhan, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 53 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 73]] Amendment 73, senators Kazimierz Kleina, Marek Martynowski, Rafał Ambrozik and Paweł Arndt, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Big coalition... [[Talking in the O.R.]] One more person from the remote... Thank you. Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 98 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 74]] Amendment 73... sorry, 74, senators Kazimierz Kleina, Marek Martynowski and Paweł Arndt, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[Voice from the room: I think the machine has struck...]] The computer was surprised... [[Voice from the room: 110 votes...]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Maybe the Members want to vote?]] Ninety-nine senators voted, 98 for, one senator abstained, no one opposed. [[Voting No 75]] Amendment 75, Senators Kleina, Martynowski and Arndt, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, 98, no one opposed, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 76]] Amendment 76, Senators Kleina, Martynowski and Arndt, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 97 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 77]] Amendment 77, Senator Ewa Matecka and Senator Janusz Błucherz, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: Ostrow's cooperation with Kalisz...]] One person from the remote... See if there's a well-sent questionnaire. Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 52 votes for, 47 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 78]] Amendment 78, Senator Matecka and Senator Bladder, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 79]] Amendment 79, Senator Eve Matecka, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 80]] Amendment 80, including Senator Matecka, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 81]] Amendment 81, Senator Matecka, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 51 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 82]] And the last amendment by Senator Matecka, supported by the committee, Amendment 82. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 83]] Amendment 83, Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor and Joanna Sekula, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 84]] Amendment 84, Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Chróścikowski, have a look. Thank you. Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 85]] Amendment 85, including Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Bosacki would like to pay attention. Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 53 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 86]] Amendment 86, Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 87]] Amendment 87, Senator Stanisław Lamczyk, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? One of the remotes, please take a look. Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 88]] Amendment 88, including Senator Stanisław Lamczyk, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 89]] Amendment 89, Senator Stanisław Lamczyk, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 90]] Amendment 90, Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 91]] Correct number 91, Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 92]] Amendment 92, Senators Kazimierz Kleina and Stanisław Gawłowski, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 51 votes for, 48 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 93]] Amendment 93, Senator Krzysztof Brejza, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 94]] Amendment 94, Senator Krzysztof Brejza, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 95]] Amendment 95, Senator Jan Filip Libicki, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka and Senator Marcin Bosacki, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 53 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 96]] Amendment 96, Senators of Libya, Rotnicka and Bosacki, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 97]] Amendment 97, Senators Jan Filip Libicki, Jadwiga Rotnicka and Marcin Bosacki, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 53 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 98]] Amendment 98, Senator Adam Szejnfeld, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 51 votes for, 48 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 99]] Amendment 99, Senator Adam Szejnfeld, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Kleina... Take a look at this. Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 51 votes for, 48 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 100]] Amendment 100, Senator Adam Szejnfeld, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, 51, 47 against, one abstention. [[Voting No 101]] Amendment 101, Senator Adam Szejnfeld, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 50 for, 47 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 102]] Amendment 102, Senator Adam Szejnfeld's last amendment, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Klich? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 50 for, 47 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 103]] Amendment 103, Senator and Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 51 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 104]] Amendment 104, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 51 votes for, 48 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 105]] Amendment 105, Senator Czarnobaj, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Bladder? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 106]] Amendment 106, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 50 for, 49 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 107]] Amendment 107, senators Janusz Gromek and Stanisław Gawłowski, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 50 for, 48 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 108]] Amendment 108, senators Gromek and Gawłowski, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 51 votes for, 48 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 109]] Amendment 109, Senator Richard Bober, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 110]] Amendment 110, Senator Richard Bober, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 50 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 111]] Amendment 111, Senator Richard Bober, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 51 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 112]] Amendment 112, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? One Senator from the remote... Take a look... [[Voice from the room: Jurek, vote.]] [[A little louder because I can't hear very well.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Please state the results of the vote. [[Voice from the Chamber: Votes.]] [[The voice from the room: No, it's just getting started.]] [[I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, it won't happen again.]] [[Voice from the room: Voting?]] [[No, no.]] Maybe some kind of Cicero speech from the bleacher would... [[I have a lot to say because I've been through a lot...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] 99 Senators voted, 51 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 113]] Amendment 113, last one, senators Krzysztof Kwiatkowski and Kazimierz Kleina, supported by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 114]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted 98 in favour, no one opposed, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 115]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the budget law for 2021. I would like to thank the senators for their focus and concentration, and the IT community for reacting to our system pretty quickly. I'm declaring a 10-minute technical recess, and then we're continuing our deliberations. [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 28 to 17 minutes 34]] I'm extending the break to 5:45, a few minutes. [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 35 to 17 minutes 47]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u161	I'm reopening the session. We are returning to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the law on hunting. I would remind you that today Senator rapporteur Adam Szejnfeld presented the committee's report and answered the senators' questions. In addition, a government representative took the floor on the bill and began answering senators' questions. We would like to return to the current meeting of a government representative on the agenda for a maximum of one minute. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Maria Jackowski and Senator Czerwiński came forward before the recess. [[There's no... and Senator Czerwinski is.]] Senator Jan Maria Jackowski? [[Voice from the room: He's gone and he won't be here.]] So... [[Voice from the O.R.: We're moving on.]] Where are we going next? Home? [[Voice from the room: No, no.]] Okay, that's tomorrow. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u162	Yes, sir. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A short question in relation to the content of concepts. This is where the concept of hunting appears, and it should be defined. In the Hunting Act, it's in hunting law, but if a farmer requires him to be paid for the damage, then he has to prove that the damage occurred at the time of the hunt. It's like there's evidence on it. The question is, will he be able to do it? Aren't we giving an empty law? Because as far as the type of damage could possibly be concluded when it was created, it is already worse with the damage caused during the hunt. Or is it just going to be the right to apply? Let me ask you this. If the Minister could answer...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u163	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u164	As for the damage caused during the hunt, there are no problems here, I admit. At least until now, I haven't met with such a situation that there's some sort of interpretation problem. Of course, whenever there is a declaration of injury, a committee shall be set up or the hunters themselves shall carry out this assessment, but the representative of the agricultural chamber may also be involved. In any case, it seems to me that this is a more theoretical question than a practical one, because we know what damage may arise during the hunt. For example, in springtime, the hunter drove his car into the crop or into the wheat, corn, etc. during the summer season. These are all facts that can be reproduced and proven, so it's definitely not a dead recipe.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u165	Thank you. Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u166	Mr. Marshal, I'm on a formal issue. I would like the Marshal to set a time limit for a joint Senate committee meeting to deal with these amendments in the light of the amendments I tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u167	So that the bill can be voted at this Senate meeting. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] Good. Are there any more questions? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] I therefore open the discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senators Alexander Swed and Janusz Gromek have made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The legislative proposals were submitted by Senator Adam Szejnfeld and Senator Zdzisław Pupa. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u168	Thank you. Mr. Marshal, during my speech, I raised doubts about the proposed sounds as regards concepts such as agricultural crops and crops. They are reflected in those amendments which have been tabled and the Senate must decide for which proposal it is in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u169	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate is sending draft laws to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. Senator Adam Szejnfeld has requested that committees be appointed for the preparation of an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the bill still at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear the votes of objection, I will find that the Senate has accepted the motion. Since there are no votes against, the motion is accepted. We proceed to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Act on the Regional Government and the Act on the Regional Government. I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print 186, and the committee's report In print No 186 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, to present a joint report of the draft law to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Kwiatkowski, please. [[Voice from the room: He's coming.]] Okay, you're here, Senator. Thank you. [[Talking in the O.R.]] There you go, Senator, for a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u170	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to present a report to the Joint Legislative Commission and to the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration. The committees at the joint meeting on 27 October considered a joint proposal for amending the Regional Government Act and the Regional Government Act at first reading. What are these changes about? These changes concern the city's youth councils, and specifically the introduction of such solutions as apply at the municipal level, also in the case of district and voivodeship authorities, so that there is a formal basis for establishing youth councils also at the level of these two successive levels of local self-government. I think that in this Chamber we agree that the possibility of developing, listening to young people's opinions is an extremely important part of building civil society. For 30 years there have been youth city councils in Poland. The first was founded in Czestochowa in 1990, in the year in which the independent autonomous local government was reborn in Poland after sad times of functioning of national councils. And this element, listening to the voice of local communities, which is the essence of the functioning of local government, we have extended to those who, due to their age, do not formally participate in the local elections, but this does not mean that their voice, the opportunity to consult with this environment, to learn their views and opinions on these issues which are dealt with by local government is not important. This is why the initiative, to make this possibility of setting up youth councils, which have been operating for years at the level of the city, the commune, also introduce in the voivodship and district government. During the joint committee meeting, we had an in-depth discussion. During this discussion, we took note of the local authorities' opinions, among others. The Polish Districts Association positively assessed the project, the Polish Council of Youth Organisations supported the project. We also have the opinions of some marshal offices who wanted to take advantage of the possibility of evaluating the project, e.g. The Marshal's Office of Lubuskie Voivodship expressed a positive opinion. Other local authorities, e.g. Opolskie Voivodship, did not submit any comments on the project. There were also local governments... e.g. The President of the Sejmik Voivodship of Świętokrzyskie presented proposals for amendments to the provisions of the bill. The Minister of Home Affairs and Administration stated that the proposal to set up youth councils at the level of the county and the sejm of the voivodship from the point of view of the government requires more detailed justification, but at the same time stressed that the initiative itself is an interesting initiative. We do not have any additional costs related to the possible functioning of these councils at the additional levels of local government. Of course, I'm talking about the cost of the budget, the treasury of the state. But we certainly have an even better, wider listening to the voice of the public, and in a special way the voice of the young generation. On behalf of the joint committees, I would like to recommend that you adopt the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u171	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. Let me remind you that the applicants have authorized Senator Joanna Sekula to represent them. Would any of you like to ask such a question? The question is, I see, Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u172	Yes, I have a question for Mr. Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. In the speech of a representative of the Legislative Commission, it was very important for me to know that youth councils or youth councils have been operating in different forms for 30 years. Indeed, one of the first was founded in Czestochowa, they were created in Łódź, Wrocław, Katowice and small towns. Some people's work is really impressive. They changed their nature, changed their structure, changed their operating bases, their statutes, their selection mechanisms. So they've got the work to do. My question is this. We introduce a proposal for a specific legal basis for these councils to operate on the basis of the statute given by a specific local authority. Therefore, my question is: what will, from a formal point of view, be the acquis, and especially the statute in force, the rules in force and the mechanism of the elections in force? [[Excuse me, I've been thinking for a moment... what level of self-government are we talking about, Senator?]] Whatever, but of course it is primarily about basic, i.e. It's a commune. The municipalities have the greatest achievements, 30 years old. The farms were formed, as we know, several years later. My main question is: what about this acquis, what about statutes, regulations, mechanisms developed for the youth council elections?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u173	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u174	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! This project concerns laws on district government and voivodship government. We don't bring in... Thank you for asking and calming: we do not introduce I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Here changes, we do not destroy this acquis, which is at the level of youth councils. At this point, I would like to thank Senator Joanna Sekule, who inspired this project. We complement this system that is. I see Senator Poor here, who has been very actively involved in this project. It seems to us that this good work, these good experiences from the functioning of youth councils and even the appointment, without this statutory basis, of various youth representation bodies, also at the level of voivodship and district self-government... Such initiatives have already started to appear in the country, all the more so it requires legal support, clear regulation of this issue. Life has evidently shown that there is such expectation. Most importantly, there are young people who want to act in these environmental representations at the level of district and voivodship self-government.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u175	Thank you, Senator. [[May I?]] Mr. Senator, maybe now I'll let someone else speak... [[Good.]] ...and then you. Senator Stanisław Gogacz is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a similar question. At the meeting of the Legislative Commission, where the issue of this amendment was presented, there was a youth delegation, a senator who presented this proposal. There were topics raised about a certain autonomy of young people. Of course, the issue of self - education, but also of autonomy, was discussed. Senator Zdrojewski has been pointed out to what he has already said, namely that... my question is as follows. There is a record that the county council and the voivodship sejm respectively, establishing the youth council, give it a statute setting out the procedure for the selection of members and the rules of operation. We at the committee meeting stressed that it would probably be better for the youth council to draw up this statute itself, and the sejmik or district would accept this statute. Then these young people, who are to be raised in the local spirit, would simply feel that it is up to them. And there was also a proposal that the words "the statute' should be replaced by "the statute'. What do you think about this? It seemed to me that this is where we went in our committee analysis. Thank you very much. [[Thank you, Mr President...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u177	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u178	Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. [[It's okay.]] Thank you, Mr President. Yeah, there was a discussion about that. Finally at this stage of work I will repeat here that I had signals that some of your senators are considering whether or not to submit an amendment now, already in plenary, we adopted the formula of the provision that it is the district council or the sejm of the voivodship, setting up a youth council at the appropriate level of the local government, giving it a statute. Of course, I can't imagine. And I'm also saying this as former councilman and city councilman and district councilman and voivodeship because I had the privilege of working at all these levels. The Council, before adopting such a statute, should not consult the interested parties themselves. The final voice of the discussion was to write it down in this way, also stressing that we always consult with some representation until the Council is formed, but not formally chosen, and that it is only later that the Council may make a proposal, e.g. to change its statute. What kind of country are you going to make in the end... This record, which is for today, i.e. its proposal is similar to solutions which are at the level of municipal and municipal authorities. Is it possible to consider changing it? In my opinion, yes, it is only a question whether it is now, after receiving possible feedback on how these advices also work at these new levels.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u179	Thank you. Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u180	What legislation today prevents youth councils from coming into existence at these levels?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u181	In the State of law, any body that operates in public space Today there is no such delegation, today there is the appointment of these advices, which are at the level of e.g. The voivodship sejmiks, is being carried out, I apologize for the term "a little" in informal mode. Because although we have a clear settlement at the level of the local government, at the level of the county council or the sejm of the voivodship we do not have a clear legal basis. So this initiative will fill this gap.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u182	Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? I'm asking Minister Piotr Mazurka. [[Secretary of State in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Piotr Mazurek: Mr. Marshal, if I may.]] Come here, on the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u183	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to refer to this project. This project undoubtedly goes in the right direction and I personally, acting as the representative of the government for youth policy, express my gratitude to the senators who took care of this topic. I am very pleased that this topic has come to your attention. But for all those who want to increase the participation of young people in public life, I have even better news, namely at the moment there is a very in-depth consultation. But I think there's been a lack of consultation here at this level. On a project that goes much further, i.e. a project which not only creates a statutory framework for the establishment of youth councils at the district or voivodship level, but also significantly extends the competences of these bodies. In this project, the state actually copied, slightly modifying, art. 5b of the Municipal Government Act and implemented this article in the District and Voivodeship Local Government Act. And for many years there have been congresses of youth councils. In this building we are in, thanks to the work of the parliamentary team... Since the last parliamentary term, i.e. also in this parliamentary term, there has been a Parliamentary Team for Youth Support of Councils at the Units of the Territorial Self-Government, in which there are representatives of various parliamentary clubs, and this team organizes every year congresses in which several hundred young people working in these youth councils come to the parliament, Warsaw. And during these congresses, the mentioned article. 5b has been criticized for a long time. It is criticised as insufficient, as limiting, as full of gaps. Unfortunately, the practice of youth councils shows that regulations that are currently at the level of the Local Government Act are far from sufficient. Therefore, this project is so good that it introduces the right practice of statutory commatization of youth councils at the district and voivodship level, but for these reasons, which I have said brings this imperfect form of regulation to 2 other laws as well. At the moment, in the opinion, in inter-ministerial arrangements, the consultation is a government project that goes much further, the scope of which is much broader as regards precisely what the senator is talking about, the role of young people in the creation of statutes as regards the functioning of carers and the role of young people, as regards, for example, the reimbursement of various types of costs incurred by young people in public activities. And a lot, a lot of other things I could name. This is a project developed by the community of the parliamentary team, which has two-cadence achievements. It is a project that has already been created in such a direct sense within the Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation. Well, here I must regret that the Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation, for the first time in history, a statutory body that is currently engaged in dialogue between the state and the youth, has not been invited to consult this project. I think it's a big mistake that's been made here. We hope that we will be able to, of course, if the High House accepts this project and will continue to discuss it in this body. I would like to add that for the first time in history in the last year, thanks to Parliament's decision, it was also created at the national level, where there are also representatives of youth councils. So we, as a government, as a parliamentary majority, are creating institutions at central level to strengthen civil dialogue between young people and the state and central institutions. We are working very hard to strengthen these youth councils at local level. But I stress: this project still seems insufficient in terms of the needs of young people reported for many years, including in this building in which we are located. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u184	Thank you, Minister. Just a little longer, 'cause there might be questions for you. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Senator Gogacz. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u185	I would like to ask the Minister about the work that you have said is being carried out in the field of matter that we are discussing. I would like to know the course of action in relation to the relationship between the voivodship sejmik and the youth council of the sejmik, between the district council and the youth council of the district, because these relations can be very different. Here in the act we leave in the statute solutions concerning organization, appointment of members, etc., etc. It is now that the statute can be shaped differently. Because we can imagine the relationship of the subordinates, for example. the youth council depends on the decision of the Council of the Sejm or the Council of the District. One can imagine a certain independence, and since independence may be an assessment of the reality that surrounds us, it may be different, the evaluation of the youth council may be different, and another assessment of the council of the Sejm or the district council. And here's my question: would you like to regulate it in some way, or would you leave it entirely to the statute, which, as we know here, will be created by the Seyms and the Councils of the county? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u186	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u187	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, we want these relationships to be as strong a partner as possible, but, of course, with certain proportions. Because it is obvious that it is a voivodship sejm or district council that has a mandate from the general election, in which everyone, even a resident of a given local government unit, can participate. We want young people to have an influence on who is the guardian of the counsel. We want young people to have a far-reaching impact on the content of documents, such as the statutes, which regulate the functioning of such bodies. We want young people to have a real opportunity to participate in the creation of the policy of the commune, district, voivodship in the area concerning young people. So I think you can call this relationship a partnership.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u188	Thank you. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u189	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have to say, this is the first time I've met a guy in the Senate who says that we didn't have an in-depth consultation on a project. I can see that... if you have that knowledge, please mention to whom the Legislative Board has come to opinion on this proposal and who has been invited to the meeting. Because since you're saying there was no such consultation, I understand you have knowledge. Second line. You represent the government and, I understand, his parliamentary facilities, the PiS club. So please tell me whether you were speaking after the youth parliament was expelled from the Sejm, which was a symbolic demonstration of how the young generation's voice was listened to. And the third line. If you're talking about the formula that there's a project going on, I'd be happy to ask you about your legal achievements, in terms of adopted draft laws, not the ones that are being consulted. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u190	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u191	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I've read the transcript of the Senate committee meeting very carefully. There were a lot of thoughts there that I agree with, and there were a lot of demands that I support. So I think that, first of all, we need to talk about what connects both our position and your position. I tried to talk about it first. Nevertheless, the Council of Dialogue was not invited with the Young Generation, a statutory body... [[I'm asking who we invited. You said there was no consultation, so I'd be happy to find out who we invited. Do you know if you do not know? If you don't know, tell me you don't know.]] Mr. Senator, I know who took part in this meeting. Unfortunately, I don't have any knowledge from the secretariat of your committee about... [[Thank you.]] ...who you invited. Nevertheless, I know that such an invitation did not affect the Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation, because I checked it out. And it should affect, because according to the law in force in Poland, it is a statutory body in which there are representatives of various state institutions, local government authorities, and here we are talking about local government laws. And above all, there are representatives of young people, among others. It's youth advice. So who's to consult with if not with them? I know that there have been a lot of youth activists from the Civic Platform, officially, in the affiliation of young Democrats, as well as other backgrounds... [[There were no invited people from the party youth...]] Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u192	Mr. Senator... [[We're telling you the wrong thing...]] All right, but let the Minister speak. You can ask questions or then you can speak in the discussion. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u193	I would very much like to answer all these questions, only we can just a little bit, however, I think, more formally discuss. I would very much like to answer all the senator's questions. There were representatives of the Young Democrats. And it's very good that they were, I'm very happy that this is an environment that engages in activities that connect us. I am also very pleased that there are representatives of the Law and Justice, but there are also representatives of the Civic Coalition, representatives of the Left, the Confederation... I don't know if there's a representative. PSL, but if it is, it's very good too. And this is an example of a case that should be dealt with over political, party divisions. I am all the more surprised that certain environments, including especially the youth body, have not been invited. Because it's weird. Well, as far as the list of speakers is concerned, there were... At least they were included in the minutes, perhaps there was someone else in the room, but in the minutes were decorated representatives of these local governments, which are also connected with only one political option. And I am very pleased that the representatives of these local governments express exactly the same views as we do. I just think that the project that you have notified is insufficient to meet the needs of the young people's environments. And I'd like it to be the main point of this discussion. Because, of course, we can force ourselves to look for differences here, but I think it's kind of a sideline. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u194	Thank you, Minister. Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u195	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask a slightly different question. I know that at the level of the Sejm, probably also at the level of the county, there are also initiatives to appoint other councils: cultural councils, councils of certain professional groups, even entrepreneurs. Will this also be the subject of the necessary regulation resulting in the power of seymists to appoint other counsels? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u196	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u197	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I am in favour of parallel strengthening senior advice, because I think that these youth councils and senior councils have a very similar character and are, especially recently, epidemics... Here I will give a very good example of just such a trans-political cooperation within the Solidarity Senior Support Corps. Young advice often, especially today, cooperates with senior advice, e.g. helping older people to make sure that older people do not necessarily have to leave the house, e.g. For shopping, for the office. Young people, young volunteers, among others With these youthful counsels they do... I believe that these are similar institutions and that we should conduct these regulations in such a sisterly, twin way. Of course, I personally support the creation of as many bodies as possible, because they build the local government with such a civic voice, and always the participation of this civic voice in various decision-making bodies is very valuable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u198	Wait a minute, Mr. Senator. Senator Magdalena Kochan, remotely. Senator Magdalena Kochan... Have you applied for the question? [[I volunteered, Mr. Marshal...]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u199	I volunteered, Mr. Marshal. I don't know if you can hear me right now... [[I can hear you.]] Thank you very much. I have also asked the Senator rapporteur and the Senator of the applicant, who is authorised by the applicants. I'm probably lost somewhere on the Internet, but that's okay. What I'm trying to say is, speaking of what the Minister said just now... I think this: if you are two years old and young people have come to the Senate asking for action, constructive and effective action on this issue, then you can only commend the effectiveness of young people, not criticize those who help young people. I myself was the guardian of one of the first youth city councils that arose in a small community, in the urban-rural town of Goleniów, and I know that today, after the reform of education, when in the municipalities... It's not a problem at large because they work on county rights... [[Senator, ask me a question. There's a minute to ask.]] Yeah, I'm almost done. [[You've already crossed...]] Doesn't the Minister think it's time for this change, not for the announcement of the changes that you are supposed to be making on the basis of a two-year consultation in the Council of Dialogue with young people, from which there is nothing in dialogue? When are you going to close this case and do you support this project, or do you not support it? Last sentence, Mr. Marshal. As regards the statutes Yes, these statutes are to be in the hands of local governments, because local governments know better how to adapt the statutes of a given municipal council to the needs of their small country. Frame...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u200	Thank you, Senator. You've been through a lot of time. No, you can't do that. There's a minute to ask... [[Voice from the room: Very well, Mr. Marshal.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u201	Mr. Marshal! Senator! I, as I said, support the direction in which this project is going, but I believe that this project is insufficient. I think that's the best answer to your question. Well, I can't say that it's completely good, because I've pointed out in which aspects, in my opinion, it's not going as far as it should go to fulfill a significant part... not all of them, of course, but a significant part of the demands of young people who are being put forward. However, I would like to point out that this project we have been talking about, which is a government project and which was created in a civil dialogue body, i.e. in the Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation, with the participation of e.g. local government with opposition option, which is also I think it's okay. I It's worth emphasising. I personally thank those representatives of the environment who are involved in the design of this project as well. But once again, I would like to thank those representatives who have been involved in the creation of the Senate project. I hope that these projects, if, of course, the High House decides to adopt this project, will be dealt with jointly. I am convinced that... because there is another project in the Seym, also one of the opposition political parties. I hope that if we have these 3 projects for the government project, the consultation should be completed in the near future, they will continue until next week. We're going to investigate these projects in the Sejm. I hope that we can work together on a legal situation that will primarily serve as much as possible to involve young people in public life, because I think that's what we all want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u202	Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u203	Two things. First, I'm going to correct the false information that the project wasn't consulted. We took part in the Polish Council of Youth Organizations, we took part in these councils, which functioned at the level of the sejmists of the voivodship. I'm also making it simple to say that we've been inviting party youth. No, we didn't invite any youth parties. We invited representatives of individual institutions, and if there were members of some political parties, we didn't even explain it. But following your questions... First of all, I did not hear the answer whether you had spoken publicly after you had expelled the Young Parliament from the Sejm. I will repeat this question, hoping that I will get an answer, and this is about the public answer, which I stress. Did you speak then? And in the context of your concern about politicising people speaking on behalf of the young generation, I would like to ask: are you a member of the PiS and are you a councilman of the PiS in Warsaw?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u204	Thank you very much. The first part contained explanations, of course, but then there were questions. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u205	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Once again, I would like to stress that I do not think the senator understood my statement very much, because I did not accuse that the youth environments associated with the Civic Platform have been involved in this matter. On the contrary, I stress that I am very pleased that this issue is the subject of a certain consensus over political divisions. I'm pointing that out again because I feel like I've been misunderstood here. Because you accused me of telling you the truth, then I can only quote you... Yes, I am a councillor of Law and Justice at the Warsaw Council. I will quote my colleague from another party from the Civic Coalition, Mr. David Kacprzyk. He is a councilman in Warsaw, in one of the districts, on behalf of the Civic Coalition, and on his official profile he wrote that this project was created by the efforts of the senators and thanks to the involvement of the Association of Young Democrats, i.e. youth of the Civic Platform. I'm quoting the official profile here... [[But you were talking about inviting a youth to a committee meeting.]] [[Mr. Senator...]] You were David Crazy of Young Democrats, but I'm glad he was. Well, I'm just pointing out that this is a case... But was Mr. David the Madonna or wasn't there Mr. David the Madonna? Well, he was, because it's protocol. [[But he's a voivodship councilman.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u206	Minister, don't argue with the O.R. [[Secretary of State in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Piotr Mazurek: Defend God, for God's sake.]] Okay? [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Piotr Mazurek: Of course.]] Senator, please don't ask questions during the answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u207	I have a question: are you in this room today a piS politician or a youth attorney? Because I don't understand. The councilmen were invited. Let me repeat: the Legislative Commission did not direct invitations to party youth. Can't you understand how the Legislative Commission works? It's said, "Oh, that's okay." I'm gonna say again that... and I'm gonna correct one more false information. Those who volunteered spoke. We have heard as many as 10 voices from young representatives of individual institutions. I didn't decide who was taking the floor. I asked them to identify the representatives and they pointed them out at this meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u208	Thank you so much for explaining. Mrs. Halina Poor. The senator is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u209	I only have a brief question for the Minister. Has the Council of Dialogue consulted with the Young Generation or in any other way consulted Seym No. 576, the one submitted on 4 August? Well, on 6 October, there was a meeting of the committee on which this project was considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u210	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u211	Mr. Marshal! Senator! The Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation, which is a statutory body consisting of representatives of the President, the Prime Minister, ministers, the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child and the Council of Public Benefits, local government officials and, above all, representatives of youth councils working with local self-government units, NGOs and the Parliament of the Students of the Republic of Poland, has set up an ad hoc team to develop a project or the objectives of a project to amend all 3 local laws in the field of youth councils. This team actually considered the project that the senator told you about, because he came in parallel somewhere. I don't want to operate with dates, decide what happened before, and what happened later, because I don't remember that anymore, but I'm sure when this team was still working, this project came up. I can't tell you right now whether there was a senate project or not. Well, I don't mean to mislead you here, but I'm sure this... Since this project actually copies to a large extent one of these articles, it can be said that the assumptions of this project have also been analysed by the Council. There have also been analyses of conclusions and assumptions... [[But my question was very brief. I asked you whether or not you had an opinion on this matter, not who was there.]] Excuse me, you're still interrupting me. Well, it's really hard to discuss when you guys are permanently in my opinion. I'd just like to finish. Okay? I would like to answer any of your questions, but I would very much like you to let me answer these questions. I would like to say to you that the team set up by the Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation, which also included a representative of the Civic Platform self-governments, and I thank her very much for that, because her contribution was very substantive and worked out a project that is going further and from this project, which was submitted by the members of the coalition, and from the project that we are talking about today. I encourage you to be interested in all of us who are this subject, as I see it. I am extremely happy about this and thank you once again for the fact that this is a topic that combines the political divisions of the country with a project that will go as far as possible towards meeting the expectations of young people. I encourage you to go even further than the project we are discussing in the Senate today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u212	Thank you. Senator Sekuła again. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u213	No, no. I didn't get the answer. I received such an answer, that the Minister repeated for one time who was part of it, what you did, what you consulted, what they consulted, etc., etc. But I didn't get a specific answer, yes or no. Are you guys...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u214	No. [[Thank you.]] In a formal sense, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u215	Thank you very much. There are no more questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Piotr Mazurek: Thank you very much.]] [[Voice from the hall: Mrs. Jazłowiecka, I think.]] One more question. Excuse me, sir. Senator Danuta Jazłowicka, remotely. Senator, you have one minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u216	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a very simple question. Tell me: why are all your answers political?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u217	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u218	Dear Senator, let me stress this once again. And I would like this to be the highlight of my meeting with you today. I'm really glad that this project is... In other words, I am pleased that the topic of helping young people to act effectively in youth councils is, I believe, the subject of agreement between different policy options. I see there's a difference in form and the legal shape of these changes. I will continue to encourage you to contribute, in final votes, to making sure that these demands are implemented as much as possible in order to achieve even more of the demands of young people than is currently being implemented by the project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u219	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions for you. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Joanna Sekula, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u220	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure of being one of the initiators of this bill. This is a very important project because it was initiated by those who will be the actual recipients of these rules. The youth councils of municipalities, powiats and voivodships are clearly the good of Polish self-government, which is why I would like us to consider this initiative in 2 areas, in the social area and in the legal area after the Minister's speech. The project, which has been launched, is the result of extensive consultation with youth councillors working at different levels. As the Minister noted, the representatives of the Young Democrats who represented the institutions, i.e. the youth sejm and the communes' council, were involved in this. The consultation was also attended by representatives of the Polish Council of Youth Organisations and the Forum of Young Diplomats. The very broad formal consultation that has been carried out has given us a clear indication that this is a project that young citizens expect. How is the case in the legal area? We knew from the beginning that this was a project, which is only a template for further work, and so this project was presented at the committee meeting. We know that those who will be the recipients of this law should have a decisive impact on the shape of this act, because they will be the ones who will be filling it in in the future when these advices are set up. How do the counsels work at the moment? Fortunately, in 2001 issues related to the establishment and functioning of youth councils of the municipality were settled. For 10 years these councils have operated on the basis of general rules, but the fact that all of this was regulated and legal, and so he did not warn these initiatives from a certain accident, I will say colloquially. One of them was e.g. not prolonging the Youth Council of Zawiercie. As for the youth councils of the county and youth sejmikas of voivodships, we know that they have been operating for many years in very different local governments, and the way in which these councils were created, let me present to you. As regards the youth councils of the county, the following provisions of the District Government Act were used: art. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 point 1, which gives the local government a task in the field of secondary education, i.e. the fulfilment of the task of the district itself. The second basis, which was set out in the resolution as a means of initiating the Council, is Article. 3d paragraph 1 and 2, i.e. an indication of a public consultation. Another reference was the indication of Article. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2, i.e. the implementation of the resolution of the district council. Thus, it is strange to compose different interpretations of the same law and how to appoint the same body. As far as youth sejmikas are concerned, I found such legal bases from the Regional Government Act: art. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 points 4 and 9, which speak of supporting and implementing measures to raise the level of education of citizens and to integrate and combat exclusion. Another legal basis is Art. Article 41 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 point 1, i.e. the implementation of the resolution of the sejm of the voivodship. Therefore, it was obvious to us that the initiative of young councillors is from their point of view, as well as to a large extent young lawyers, an attempt to organise the existing legal system, so that they do not meet with such justification for not calling advice, and the lack of uniform regulation provokes such action. In a sense, we have also heard voices saying that such a lack of law leads to anarchy, and anarchy can lead to unnecessary manipulations even seemingly to a small extent. It is therefore very important that the provisions that have been invoked as legal bases, most often as scope rules, sometimes competent ones, do not have to be used. It is about creating a good, uniform legal system, which will be the basis for setting up youth councils. That is why we have prepared the necessary amendments for this draft bill. These amendments order the legal situation while expanding the already famous article. 5b so that the legal status of all 3 local laws is identical. Mr Marshal will allow me to make amendments while asking the High Commission and the High Senate to take these amendments into consideration. We address your senators on behalf of all those young people who have taken the initiative, and we as senators also represent young citizens in all those places from which we have been appointed as honorary senators, young people who in the future, I hope, will also form the High Senate... I would ask that the High Senate be kind to consider this initiative positively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u221	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator, should I consider this request for positive consideration as a formal request to set a deadline for the committees to prepare an additional report in order to carry out a third reading at this meeting? Yes, Senator? [[You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.]] You're making such an application. Good. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u222	I will start with a maxim that is very important to me: where everyone thinks the same, nobody thinks too much. We're different in the club, too. I have to admit, I've spoken to Senator Secula a few times, my friend at the club, about this resolution, and I haven't been able to convince her of this project. But the minister left, and he did it in five minutes. I'll tell you exactly what the most important thing about this matter is. In 1989 and 1990, such a troika as Prof. Regulski, Prof. Kulesz, Prof. Stępień and Prof. Kieres founded legal foundations for local government in Poland. They drew the source of their projects primarily from the French experience. These experiences show, in particular, the direction of thinking in which the local government has autonomy, the ability to carry out tasks and the ability to choose methods of doing certain things for its citizens. Therefore, the less regulation in this local government, the better. The less restrictions, the better. The more autonomy, the better. This does not mean that the local government should operate in isolation from the state administration. That's not an option. But government administration and local government should have sovereign areas of activity and operate in these areas, of course in some agreement or agreement. Since 1990, I have observed the emergence of various counsels Young people's advice and advice on youth, veterans' advice and advice that would help these veterans. I also watched the dynamics of all these changes and how they evolved from cultural councils to cultural councils. It doesn't matter. All these experiences I've seen have shown that these various bodies in front of the presidents have been created at the council of the commune several dozens. Dozens! They arose, disappeared or continued their activities according to priorities, the sensitivity of the mayor, the president, the needs of the commune, but above all What I want to draw attention to Initiatives that are bottom-up, i.e. young people themselves, seniors themselves, sometimes women, sometimes entrepreneurs, sometimes directors or artists. I'm talking about culture. Why my initial, source doubt? I think that if some things arise from the bottom up and have a lot of diversity, it is a bad idea to impose a matrix on these different institutions. I prefer freedom, democracy, freedom, diversity rather than imposing a certain mode of existence in this case youth councils With a certain procedure for setting up a statute or building a selection procedure. I know of youth councils that have worked out and have repeatedly changed their statutes, as well as election mechanisms. The Wrocław Council of Culture was recently established in Wrocław. A year arose, i.e. so many lasting elections, very diverse Environmental elections, presidential nominations, institutional elections Until this advice came into being. I can't imagine now that the Senate will tell us how the Culture Council in Łódź, Krakow, Wrocław et cetera is to be established. When I look at this project and compare it to the Minister's statement, I want to defend this project because it's that light form. I'm always scared when a country comes into these NGOs and starts talking about how they're supposed to look, how they're supposed to shape, how they're supposed to go. That's the first line. The second point is financing, that is financial aid. I believe that in general NGOs are the strongest when they are given the resources for tasks, for purposes, for the implementation of their specific projects, but they are not dependent on their own existence, i.e. working conditions. Sometimes it is necessary, but the less this dependence on the state, on the self-government, the stronger they are, indeed independently, autonomous and operate on the basis of real needs, these local needs. Finally, I am generally in favour of not finding the legal basis for local governments in areas where they have already managed without this legal basis, but I think that if they can be helped, I would prefer to apply the provisions that allow them to set up various councils right away, not the senior council separately, the council of young people separately, the council of the veterans. separately etc., etc., because we will begin to enumerate what the local authorities are allowed to say. When, somewhere in the perspective, there is an announcement of such government activity that it will regulate all these elements exactly, I am immediately afraid, I am immediately standing up for, once again emphasized, local governments, democracy, freedom, bottom-up initiatives, NGOs and minimum regulations, if possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u223	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u224	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The most important thing is, of course, to create new opportunities for representatives of the young generation and I have no problems saying that the government draft law I read that youth councils will gain a resolution initiative in it whether they will give an opinion on draft resolutions of councils, cities or municipalities concerning young people, and this is an interesting direction. But that doesn't mean I'm going to depreciate other offers. The government project is currently at the consultation stage, we have no guarantee that it will appear as a concrete legislative initiative, which the government will refer to Parliament. If you follow up on the discussions, the first information on the work on the government project, you will see that they appeared at the turn of 2019 and 2020. I'd be happy to quote specific information. It's been over a year since. I'm not even complaining about it, I'm not going to say that the government slept through a year because we had a difficult year, there was a pandemic, there were different situations, there were other priorities in this area. I have no doubt, however, that all those who care about the young generation are looking for allies and partners, and certainly no good agreement is being built on initiatives supporting young people, suggesting any political key or political intentions that the other party would be guided by. I have a list of the institutions that we have invited to the meeting of the Legislative Commission. There is a Polish Council of Youth Organizations, where there are... For example, in Mazowsze there is a Youth Sejmik of Mazowieckie Voivodeship. Of course, we invited government representatives, we asked for the opinion of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, we spoke to local communities, the Board of the Polish Districts Association, the Union of Metropolises, the Union of Polish Cities, the Polish Provinces Association, human rights organizations, I will not mention them all, as well as to local governments of the legal professions. I'm saying this so that we have the absolute conviction that I'm not accusing anyone of bad will either. I ask that anyone who tries to help young people do not set standards, and bad standards, from adult politics, trying to judge the initiatives of others. Let these initiatives be as many as possible. I wish the government project would show up as soon as possible and not be stuck in interministerial consultations, as many government projects sometimes happen. And I have no doubt that the Senate initiative has a chance to speed up this process. We have many different senate projects that, as it turns out, inspire, motivate and support the process of government legislation at the moment they appear. From my point of view, I'm saying this as the draftsman of the committee. There is nothing to prevent a government project from appearing and that you, if it is really better and wider, finish the work on that project in the Sejm and not on the Senate project. What matters is how it's handled, not who's gonna take her down. We all do it for young people.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u225	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Halina Poor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u226	Mr. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Minister! Maybe a word first in the context of Senator Zdrojewski's statement. This amendment, which has been tabled, deletes this point 3, i.e. that the youth council of the municipality The district and the voivodship are composed of representatives of... So that in any way you define what Senator Zdrojewski was talking about... We also believe that the Senate should not impose a choice. It is about giving opportunities to create youth councils at all levels. I also agree with the Minister that we should cooperate, act together, but life Unfortunately, it shows that it is often different. To the knowledge of all your senators, I will say yes. On 4 August a parliamentary project was submitted, i.e. printing No 576, 13 August was submitted Senate printing No 186, 27 October held a meeting of the committee, about which Senator Kwiatkowski spoke, on 28 October the Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation regularly adopted a resolution on how to deal with youth councils, on 30 December the draft law was presented at a meeting of the government, and since 4 January there has been a consultation on this issue. I think it's gonna be very good... As we all say here, And I think we're all going to vote for that. We're talking about the self-government of the young generation. There was a Parliamentary project earlier and it could be improved, now it is ours and can be adopted, and in the consultation there is a government project. I very much like such an evangelical parable of two sons or two brothers It's called a lot of things. The father says to one, this one corresponds to well, but does not; to the other he says to make, and this one answers I do not want, but he does. I'm all for doing it. After your actions, you will know them. I think young people are worth it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u227	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Richard Majer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u228	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm very short. I would like to thank you for this complex project, which brings us closer to such a very participatory model of self-government development and to making the young generation more aware of the issues of self-government and self-regulation. I also feel obliged to speak before you because I am a citizen of Częstochowa, who, as Senator Kwiatkowski noted, was one of the first cities that introduced this model. We also have some kind of experience in the functioning of youth local councils, but also senior councils, because such in Częstochowa and some municipalities already function. I do not see any discrepancy between our actions and those of the Minister. I'm seeing a lot of convergence. The Senate initiative encounters new opportunities that appear on the government side to further enhance youth self-government. From experience and from practice I will say that yes, much depends on the regulations that we shape here, but then, at the bottom, at this local level, very much will depend on whether or not in local government At the level of the county, at the level of the voivodship There will be a suitable leader who will be able to draw with them, who will shape it. In fact, we are building this regulation to facilitate the activities of young people, but we are also constantly looking for local leaders who will replace us in due course. Dear Sirs, the problem of district councils and maybe to a lesser extent of seym... But I will draw your attention to the district councils of young people, which will be as if we are proposing and which we are currently building this regulation. In fact, in their case there will be more questions than answers at the moment, because what I observe at home in the municipalities and I am now a senator, so to speak, a bagel district, i.e. a district encompassing districts around a large city, is a situation in which young people going to secondary schools feel less and less connected with their municipalities, go to cities where they are not really at home, because such a city is on the rights of the county... And I think that's the problem... The first advice that will be made will have to answer the question of how to act in such structures... In the framework of local government reform, a structure has been built that some counties of the world are deprived of such a natural administrative centre, as is the case for example. in the case of Czestochowa. I think that the activities of these district councils will be very interesting, but also difficult, and perhaps there will be a time when, as legislators or government parties, if this project passes, we will have to look for new legal solutions that these youth councils will be able to help more effectively. Thank you very much for the speech by the Minister, who presented a far-reaching convergence with our achievements, with the achievements of the honourable committee. I think that this regulation will contribute to the development of self-government among young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u229	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Senator Alexander Swed, Senator Janusz Gromek and Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka have made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted jointly by Senator Sekuła, Senator Poor and Senator Matecka. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Piotr Mazurek: Yes.]] You're welcome. Come on up to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u230	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Thank you so much for this discussion. Once again, I would like to stress that the most important thing in this discussion, I think, is that the representatives of various policy options have very clearly agreed on what is most important. In that we should strive to support young people in their commitment to the common good, in their commitment to self-government, in their involvement in public life. And that's a very good sign. Because regardless of the fact that our projects are a little different, perhaps some believe that we should go a little further, others believe that regulations should be limited in some respects, I have not heard any significant voice here against the very idea of increasing the role of young people in public life, increasing the self-government of young people. And this is very good for the future, because we have all agreed on the most important issue, and for all this I would like to thank you very much, as a proxy for youth policy. I look forward to further cooperation on further initiatives aimed at enhancing the role of young people in public life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u231	Thank you, Minister. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate directs the bill to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. Senator Joanna Sekuła has requested that the committees set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the bill still at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear the votes of objection, I will find that the Senate has accepted the motion. I do not hear any objections, and the proposal has therefore been accepted. We proceed with the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Social Assistance Act. I would like to remind you that this project has been submitted by the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, and print No 223 is included, and the committee's report In print No 223 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Richard Majer, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u232	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a report from the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the draft law amending the Law on Social Assistance. The committees worked on this project on December 16th. The draft itself stems from the work of the petition committee, to which one of the respondents asked to amend the law on the provisions on family social assistance homes. The family social services house is an intermediate link between care services in the place of residence and residence in the social services home. Using care in a family home, compared to staying at a social security home, allows you to operate in conditions similar to that of a family home. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions considered it worth considering the possibility of signing contracts for the running of a family home also with a municipality adjacent to the municipality competent for the location of the house. Up until now, the regulation of the Social Assistance Act was only the possibility that the resident of a given house could be directed to a family house which lies within the territory of a given municipality. I would like to point out that the regulation is not very common, because these family social services houses in Poland are only 37. So after comparing this with the number of municipalities, 2,000, more than 2,000 400, it turns out that we are dealing with niche regulation. Nevertheless, the committees considered it worthwhile to make this amendment to the Social Assistance Act so that, at some point in time, people from the neighbouring commune could be referred to a family help home in the neighbouring commune, it could be done under the applicable law and under that law. The committees agreed that such a short regulation 'Cause she's really short 'cause she's actually introduced into the Social Assistance Act. The senators voted it out and recommended that the High Senate adopt this regulation. But I must say right away that already during the work of the committee, on the initiative of Senator Czerwiński, a discussion was initiated which was aimed at detailing one vague rule. Since I became rapporteur, after the committee meeting I consulted our Legislative Office, as well as the Department of Social Assistance and Integration in the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, and we actually recognised what Senator Czerwiński saw in this regulation, i.e. The fact that she's not entirely in line with what the legislator's intention was. Therefore, immediately, if I may, I will make an amendment to this bill to the marshal's hand. And I'm gonna ask you to hold a committee meeting at this sitting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u233	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and an authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Michael Sewerinski. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? Yes. There you go. Minister Swed. Minister, I'd like to invite you to the stand here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u234	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! The Ministry of Family and Social Policy supports the Senate proposal. She is also in line with the proposal contained in the amendment of the Social Assistance Act, which is currently in the process, waiting for the Council of Ministers to decide. This remark, which you spoke about at the committee meeting, is also taken into account. I think these two projects will meet in the Seym and will be considered together. The amendment, as Senator Majer has rightly put it, did not address any major problem, but it is better to introduce such a solution, because it will facilitate the direction of people who need such support, into family homes in neighbouring municipalities. So that our ministry supports this proposal. We're ready to continue to process it. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u235	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Thank you.]] Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Magdalena Lovers, remotely. Are you Senator Magdalena? Can my lover hear us? No. [[Voice from the room: She signed up?]] You don't have a senator. Please take the floor of the senator... [[Voice from the room: No, no.]] Oh, no, Senator Major doesn't. I'm gonna ask you again, are you Senator Lover? [[Voice in the O.R.: Not responding.]] I therefore inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Ryszard Śvilski, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Alexander Szwed, Janusz Gromek presented their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would also like to inform you that you have submitted proposals of a legislative nature to Senator Richard Majer. The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate directs the bill to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration. In this meeting... [[Voice in the courtroom: Your Marshal must file a motion...]] I request that the committees submit a report in such a way that the third reading and vote is still held at this Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the second reading of the motion for a resolution on strengthening cooperation with the United States. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 309 and the report "Print No 309 S." I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Marcin Bosacki, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u236	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Senate! It is an honor for me to present a report on this morning's meeting between the two High Commissions, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Legislative Commission. The intention of the applicants for this resolution is, firstly, to express solidarity with the American people after the tragic events in Washington on 6 January this year, in which 5 people were killed and which were undoubtedly an assassination of American democracy procedures, were an attempt, one can say, to reverse the approval of Joe Biden's election as the next president of the United States of America by the American Congress. Secondly, in this resolution or in this motion for a resolution, we express our unwavering faith in the strength of American democracy, the institutions of the state and hope that the transfer of power in the United States will be completed peacefully and efficiently. And finally, thirdly, and hence the title We propose that the Senate express its great hope of strengthening cooperation with the United States, and we express, on behalf of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, our readiness to cooperate more intensively with the new authorities of the United States, and especially with the 100th Congress of the United States, based on common values and interests. The subject of the resolution was the reason for a rather long, but rather intense discussion at the meeting of the Joint Committees. Two proposals were put forward: the first is a proposal to stop work on this resolution, the second is a proposal to reject the motion for a resolution. Both proposals were not supported by a majority of committee members. In the final vote, the committee supported the motion for a resolution by 14:7 votes, with a few abstentions. I will briefly put forward the arguments of both parties, i.e. those who were in the minority, but proposed not to deal with this resolution or stop working on it. These were mainly arguments concerning the fact that there is no position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the motion for a resolution. To these arguments presented by Senators Jackowski and Czerwinski, the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Klich, replied that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was invited to send its representative to the committee meeting and the opinion of the project, but unfortunately no representative of the Ministry came to them. The senators also claimed that the Senate has no prerogative to deal with foreign policy in the way it is applied in this Senate resolution, since it is a member of the Council of Ministers in accordance with the Constitution. It was also argued that this would be a way of teaching the United States about standards and democratic principles. I allowed myself to argue with these arguments by presenting a resolution following the bombings on 11 September 2001, a parliamentary resolution, which often expressed solidarity with the American people, often with the same words, i.e. the community of principles, the power of democracy and the rule of law. I would add something that I had not yet known during the committee's deliberations that in the previous Senate in a similar situation, in the situation of terrorist attacks in Paris, during the second Senate meeting, the 9th Senate, he issued a very similar resolution, signed by Marshal Karczewski, referring to solidarity with the French people, also basing this position, this text on solidarity, on the community of democracy and the community of freedom connecting the world of the West. Most As you can see from the vote of the Senators of both joint committees supported my arguments, but also Senator Klich, Senator Zdrojewska or Senator Kwiatkowski. I hereby ask the High House to support this motion for a resolution, because, of course, it is not that this attack on the United States Congress six days ago was an internal matter for America. This is a matter where the whole Western democratic world should be united with the American people. Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u237	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and an authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Marcin Bosacki to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Yes.]] You're welcome, Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u238	I have two questions for the senator of the applicant's representative. The first concerns the total content, but actually results from this content. Namely, if we are adopting a resolution on strengthening cooperation with the United States, in a sense we suggest that this cooperation was not sufficiently strong before. I would ask you to assess how the Republic of Poland has been cooperating with the United States so far, mainly in these aspects of military, economic, defence and security. And that's the first question. The second is, I'd say, some kind of statistics. Namely, I think we are the first parliament, because we are one of the chambers of parliament who speaks about these events which were on 6 January at the Capitol. I would ask you to present these chambers, the legislative bodies that have made their official statements, as you propose, on this subject, which have issued resolutions, appeals and such acts.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u239	Thank you very much, Senator, for these questions. They... at least the first one was also in committee, but maybe I'll answer the second one first. I don't know that kind of statistics. But I'm going to repeat what I said during the committee meeting and just now, you were gonna talk on the phone, so maybe you didn't hear. The Senate of the Republic of Poland 5 years ago, 4,5 years ago, 4 years and 2 months ago, in the 9th term of office, adopted, signed by Marshal Karczewski, a resolution on solidarity with the French people after the attacks of November 2015. Also, the Second Chamber of the Polish Parliament following the terrorist attacks on the United States on 11 September 2001 unanimously issued such a resolution on solidarity with the American people, with the support of the President of Law and Justice, just after 7 days after those tragic attacks of September 2001. I repeat: at the moment I do not know the statistics of Parliament's speeches, but I do know that the parliamentarians of major European countries, French, German, British, have spoken on this subject, rightly viewing as their moral duty to condemn this attack and express solidarity with the American people at this difficult time. As for your first question, I will repeat what was being discussed by the committee because that was the question. Did you stress what Senator Gogacz asked during the committee's deliberations, and I answered, the desire to strengthen cooperation or to strengthen the relationship, or, as we write, to strengthen our alliance, to declare more intensive cooperation These are the quotations from the resolution. Does this mean that this cooperation has been bad so far? No, it doesn't. However, in such a dramatic situation, when changing power in the United States, it is worth to make a rather serious change, especially when the highest position in the U.S. country includes a good friend of Poland, I remind you that Joe Biden is the last active American politician who, I believe, had the pleasure and honor to vote 22 years ago in favour of NATO's enlargement to Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic. It is worth stressing the importance of mutual relations. It is worth not only declaring solidarity and support for the American people in the crisis that this nation and this democracy are undoubtedly experiencing, but also declaring their willingness to strengthen their mutual cooperation, as we write, and expressing their willingness to renew their partnership. US relations with the European Union, of which Poland is a proud member. I think I've exhausted the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u240	Thank you very much. Senator Bogdan Borusewicz's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u241	Mr. Senator, is it true that the invited representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs first agreed to come and then canceled his arrival and didn't come? Is it true that such a situation took place in connection with the discussion of this resolution?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u242	Yes, Mr. Marshal. During the deliberations of the joint committees, you explained this matter to the president, Senator Bogdan Klich. At his request, the staff of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union presented to him and he handed over documents to the senators during the committee's deliberations confirming that yesterday a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was invited. The director of the Department of America first confirmed his participation, and then, last night, he canceled his arrival, explaining the calendar conflict with other responsibilities. In any case, as the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, we are very sorry for the fact that a representative of the Foreign Affairs Office has not arrived and has not referred to the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u243	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u244	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to be quiet, but you can't, unfortunately. This is a response to Mr. Marshal Borusewicz's question. Well, I would ask you to explain precisely to the High House, because perhaps someone else is listening to us, whether this letter was a request for an opinion of the text of the resolution, addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and I must admit that it is more important for me to have a written opinion that we can read and refer to. Or was it a request for one of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to appear at a committee meeting? It's essential. Was it an invitation to the committee or a formal request for an opinion on the resolution you are presenting? This is a very important issue, because these are two fundamentally different things.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u245	Mr. Senator, thank you for that question. In line with what President Klich presented this morning to the joint committees at the meeting, this was an invitation with a clear indication that the debate at the committee meeting or the committee's work would be on the motion for a resolution. This motion for a resolution is attached to a letter sent to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs wanted to give an urgent opinion, it certainly had the opportunity to do so because it had known this text since yesterday. I stress the issue of urgency, because there are foreign affairs cases, but also other areas where, as we know, ministries correspond for weeks or even months. But this project deals with very dramatic and recent events. I would remind you that the attack on the United States Congress took place six days ago. The motion for this resolution was made during the weekend, and yesterday morning, at the first possible time, it was submitted to the marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u246	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u247	Excuse me, Miss Marshal. Let me ask you something, just so we're clear. Have you formally applied for an opinion? Does the word "opinion" appear in the letter you have written or not? I'm asking for a short answer, zero-one, because this logic...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u248	I would very much ask President Klich to answer this question if my answer is imprecise. According to what was presented to us at this morning's meeting of the Joint Committees, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was invited to a committee meeting devoted exclusively to the work on this project. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs received a draft of this resolution yesterday. Of course, the request was for a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to refer to this project during a committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u249	Was there a request for an opinion or not? Well, Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but this is exhausting. I know I'm exhausting, but I'd like an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u250	Senator, first of all, don't get excited, don't get upset, because this is a parliamentary debate. Senator Bosacki answered your question. He also said... [[But I can...]] Mr. Senator, I'm asking you to calm down, too. He said that the committee president could give a more precise answer to this question. I think this is the answer that exhausts Senator Bosacki's knowledge of the subject. I would very much ask you not to raise your voice. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u251	Thank you very much, Marshal. I would like to ask the senator, Mr President, to clarify the wording of the attempt to assassinate democratic procedures. Well, what's the phrase? On what basis was this wording introduced into the proposed resolution? I understand that it is possible to express concern, regret for dramatic events, but I do not know on what basis the senator claims that an assassination attempt has taken place. That's a very strong formulation. The bombing is very bad. Well, if you had evidence of something like this, it would, of course, be an epoch, it would be a breakthrough in this case. At the committee meeting you yourself mentioned that there is an investigation going on in the United States at the moment, all the circumstances of this incident are being explained. So I would simply ask for an explanation of the basis on which this wording was made in this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u252	Thank you so much for that question. I can honestly say that my attempts to reduce the importance of what happened in Washington on January 6th at the Capitol are very surprising. Well, such attempts are made by some senators. There is no doubt, Senator, that there has been an attempt to assassinate democratic procedures. There's no doubt about it, no one's denying it at all. It was an aggressive crowd, as you can see in many movies. One of the officers protecting the Capitol was killed. He died after two days, but actually he was beaten to death. The purpose of this crowd was to invade the Capitol area, but it didn't happen at any time. This moment is left. And that's beyond any doubt. On that day, on 6 January 2021, both chambers of Congress, the American Parliament, were ratifying, confirming the election by the state electors of both candidates in the presidential election, i.e. de facto Joe Biden's election, because we know that he won. It is possible to argue whether the bombing had support in some of the state structures in the United States, this is the subject of a dispute. By whom he was planned, to what extent he was organized. But the fact that he did happen... I stress that this is about an attempt on democratic procedures, that is, approving the outcome of elections. The result of the election was already known 2 months earlier, but in the United States there is a several-step procedure and the final approval of the result of the election before the congressional and senators will take place next week. Exactly at this moment there was an attack on the Capitol, which is the seat of the United States Congress. Well, I'm really surprised that you're in doubt when you say that there's an attack on democratic procedures.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u253	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u254	I would ask you very much not to suggest my intentions because I asked a specific question. I don't know all the circumstances, I understand that the senator knows everything about these events and he's trying to iron me out here and put me in a corner as someone who's questioning what we saw on TV. I am absolutely not questioning this, but I would like to know all the contexts, the background of this and I would also like to know for example. The details of the death of Ms. Ashla Babbitt, who died, and the other victims who died during those events. Therefore, it seems to me that it would be advisable to rephrase this passage of the resolution and express itself in a more prudent and balanced manner, not only ideological and political, in a balanced way, without such labelling of the PiS or of the President, or of the government, that they reacted improperly or properly, such a setting, such showing with a sense of superiority: we are right and you are not. I just don't know. I'm asking because I'd like to know what the reasons were. The wording is very strong, you'll admit the senator. The word "bomb" is clearly associated, negative of course, with some kind of aggression, with some kind of violence and violation of the state that is in force. That's why I'm wondering... I think I'm gonna make an amendment to rewrite this part of the resolution. I think, in light of what the senator himself said, we don't know all the circumstances and details, he's pretty... I think that... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, is that a question?]] Yes. And... [[Vice-Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Because I think the amendment is in the debate... One minute, it's past the time, so I would ask you very much to...]] And that's why I'm asking you, don't you think you should pay tribute to those people who died in these events? Well, because there were also fatalities. You mentioned it to the policeman, but there was an ex-vet lady. Shouldn't the text of the resolution include, well, homage or any regret?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u255	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u256	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I haven't ironed for a moment from the beginning. This matter is very serious and this is also the motion for a resolution of the Senate of the Republic which we present. I don't think there's a dispute between us about the gravity of these events. Of course, you have the full right to make amendments. When you fold them, I, too, will consider other applicants in our minds and consciences. We're absolutely committed to the fact that five people died. Well, I remind you... I would like to quote the first sentence of this motion for a resolution: The Senate of the Republic of Poland expresses solidarity with the American people after the tragic events in Washington on 6 January this year, which resulted in the deaths of five people. In this resolution, there is really nothing, in our view, that could rub it, divide it. There is expression of solidarity, expression of faith in the power of American democracy and expression of the desire to strengthen the Polish-American and European-American alliance in NATO and through cooperation between the US and the European Union. And we don't share those victims here either. Although, if you ask me personally, I would say that of course I agree with those majority opinions in the United States, that it is impossible to put the heroism of a policeman who defends an aggressive crowd with strong tools of the building of one of the basic institutions of the public authorities of the United States, and those who are involved in exactly this attack. But, as I stress, there is no attempt to share this in this resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u257	Thank you very much. Are you still Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz? No. Thank you. Well, thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] There is no representative of the government in the Chamber, so I cannot ask him whether he wishes to speak on the motion for a resolution presented. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich. [[Voice from the room: I signed up...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u258	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! After this attempt to torpedo the resolution that the PiS club took at the committee meeting, we did not really have the opportunity to talk about the merits of the case. I am pleased that we have this opportunity at second reading. Because it seems that these formal doubts that have been expressed in relation to the absence of the scandalous absence of a representative of the Foreign Minister during our committee meeting and the first reading... Scandalous, I mark, not the first, but in this case scandalous, because, as someone confirms, it comes later, and if he doesn't want to come, it doesn't confirm. And after all the doubts that were expressed about whether the Senate has the right to deal with this resolution... And yet this resolution, which was referred to by Senator Marcin Bosacki, I wrote at that time. This resolution, adopted at the beginning of the previous term of office Remember this, those who were in the Senate at the time, was an expression of our solidarity with those French people and their families who died in the act of terror, in the bombings, in a series of terrorist attacks on 13 November 2015 and with all the French who were terrified of what had happened in France. Let's face it, after the accidents, after the acts of terror in Madrid in 2004, and in London in 2005, it was a series of bombings. And since then, France has been most shocked by the 2015 events. And then no opinion of the Foreign Ministry was needed. Then the only problem in this draft resolution, which I submitted to the High Senate, was the problem of European values. Who raised the problem? Well, Senator Czerwinski. Senator Czerwiński refused to agree in that resolution to refer to our common values, values that we share with... then with the French and other peoples of Europe. Eventually, without such doubts, that resolution was adopted. The Senate has the right to be sympathetic. The Senate has a duty of compassion. The Senate has the right to cooperate with other parliaments wherever they lie. The Senate Marshal has such powers and executes them. No matter who the Senate marshal is, and no matter what the Senate's political and personal composition is. It was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it I hope so. I'll be there. This is the reason why I recommend this resolution to the High House as chairman of the committee after the attempt to torpedo this resolution has been thwarted. But we have to think about why PiS was so determined and continues to make sure that this resolution does not exist. What's the PiS afraid of? What is it about those speeches we hear from this side of the room? Is this about not regretting something that was an attempt on democratic procedures? Very different concepts appeared. I personally believe it was an act of terror. Personally, I think it was an act of terror. I refer here both to the definition of the U.S. Department of Defense on what terrorism is and to the definition of the CIA. When we consider different approaches to terrorism with students in classes at the Jagiellonian University, we also consider these two definitions. I encourage you to reach out to these definitions. But this resolution is softer in form. She's talking about trying to assassinate democracy. Because it was an attempt on democracy. It's because luckily she didn't make it. During one of the last phases, specifically during the approval of the Congress elected in the general election of the President of the United States, Joe Biden, a group of supporters of President Trump, I note: not all, only a group of supporters of President Trump entered the Capitol area, causing a direct threat to the health and life of those sitting there, such as us, congressmen and senators, who had to be evacuated from this building because of the immediate threat of their life and health. It hung up, fortunately it didn't stop. Further proceeding with the approval of the presidency of Joe Biden. So it was an attempt, and it was an assassination attempt. For what? For democratic procedures. You can't name what happened last Wednesday in Washington better. You just can't. Then why doesn't the PiS want to call it by name? After all, he saw what we saw, he saw what millions of Poles and others saw. Is it that we express our faith in the power of American democracy in this proposed resolution? Yes, we express, because we believe that America will not only be the leader of the free world, but will also be the leader of the democratic world. Because we know this America from the past, because we sighed at this America during our country's captivity, because this America has been in our memories for decades, for decades of our yearning for democracy. And this was America for many years of independence and democracy in Poland, i.e. She was the leader of the democratic world. And we'd like to keep the leader like that. Well, unless there's someone in this room who wants America to be no longer the leader of the democratic world in the future. We also hope that electoral procedures will be completed peacefully and efficiently, and we hope that the American people will come out of this experience stronger. Well, unless there is someone in this room who hopes that these procedures will not be completed and will not proceed peacefully. But if that is the case, let him say it clearly, here, and not obscure himself with any absurd allegations that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not have the opportunity to consult this project. 'Cause it did, but it didn't. It applied obstruction so that this argument could be used in this room and to slow down the work on the resolution. I also wonder if there is anyone who believes that our alliance, Poland and the United States should not be strengthened. I don't believe it. I can't believe that there could be someone in this room who'd think the opposite of us. America is one of the main partners for Poland, it is a fundamental ally, one of three, as I have said for many, many years, of the external pillars of our security. I can't imagine anyone wanting to weaken our alliance. Well, unless someone doesn't say what actually happened in the last few years, and unless someone doesn't want to remember that because President Trump lost and President Biden won the election, the American policy of the PiS is in a dead end. I repeat with all my power: by betting on one horse in this race, only President Trump, the American policy led by the PiS was in a dead end. Who best illustrated this? Namely Dr. Przemysław Żurawski, a.k.a. Grajewski, a foreign minister's advisor, in his famous opinion, in which he recommended the foreign minister such a solution: bet only on President Trump It's like his victory has already been decided. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, now...]] One more sentence. Mrs. Marshal, we also write in this draft resolution that we know the President of the United States of America Joe Biden because we know him! Because he came to Poland. I myself, as Minister, participated in consultations with him, during which I personally supported our cooperation in the field of security. His pro-Polish approach is and has been known for decades. His support first for Poland's independence, later for Poland's accession to NATO, finally for strengthening our cooperation in the field of security, is probably known to everyone. But it's also known. And I think there's a dog buried here. The fact that in the election campaign and throughout his life he advocated that politics should be based on the values that we share, at least as a Polish opposition, i.e. on the values of democracy, Mrs Marshal, on the rule of law, on human rights, on respect for civil rights, etc. I think that's where the dog is buried. And this is what actually engulfs the current Polish rulers, because these are not the values that the PiS government is implementing. President Biden, therefore, recommending the return of these values to the world and committing to the fact that they will be a tool for US foreign policy, could be a problem for the PiS policy. It is not a problem for Poland, because it is an opportunity for Poland, it is a serious challenge for the PiS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u259	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u260	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It seems that here, in the Senate, we have given our political adversaries, the PiS, which is in charge at the moment, a proposal that would give us the opportunity to get out of the situation in which PiS got into, from the situation to which Poland is leading. Because PiS rules Poland, we are the opposition. This motion for a resolution gave me the opportunity to go away from what could be seen and listened to in the statements of PiS politicians, politicians of the highest rank, on PiS TV, i.e. TVP, where two days ago I listened to another discussion of these debaters, journalists, who always discuss in this medium, discussers related to PiS. I've been listening to this stupendously. Well, I've heard comments from those tragic events in Washington that Trump and his supporters were right that democracy in the United States is at stake, but not because President Trump's instigated citizens attacked Congress, the United States Capitol, where 2 chambers, the Senate and the House of Representatives were to meet in order to finally approve the election of Joe Biden in American law. And these demonstrators broke into the Capitol, not to visit this object, but to prevent the final approval of the elections. And it is clear that it led to what President Trump said, and he said: they stole my election, they stole your election, so the election was faked. And not without reason on the day of approval of the final outcome of the election he organizes a rally under the Capitol and draws his followers from all over the United States. If this investigation is being conducted, it will be his job to determine why these demonstrators have invaded, why the police have not stopped them and who has led them to this situation, i.e. Who's responsible for this. Politically, it's clear. It's about who's legally responsible for the fact that five people died. Also for the fact that the position of the United States in the world has been weakened. That, of course, is also clear. What happened on January 6th in Washington is not just an internal matter of the United States, as I heard in the comments, in the comments here, in the media, which are government media. This is not just a matter of the United States, because the United States is the world's power and is our most important ally in Poland. And not without reason 2 days ago, when I was watching the Rossiya 24 news channel, for 50 minutes I saw this satisfaction, I saw a message that said: after all, those who invaded the Capitol were right, but they did not want to hear it. Listen up, guys. Dear Senators, it has become unprecedented, and it is with our most important ally, so it is not without significance for the security of Poland. That is what is of great importance for the safety of Poland. Is the case over? Is it over yet? No, the case isn't over because there's gonna be an oath. And because Trump's followers are preparing not only for demonstrations, but for various activities that can be dangerous in all states. They'll probably come back to Washington, too. So this case isn't over. So don't be surprised that the Senate is dealing with this issue, which is important for the security of Poland. She also deals with it even because the whole government propaganda was on Trump's side, she was on Trump's side. You could see that, not just on public television. I'm not surprised, after the president of this television, Jacek Kurski, immediately after the election, first congratulated Trump on his victory. Then why should we be surprised? There's nothing to be surprised about this direction. Did the TV head back out of it? How about I congratulate Biden now and congratulate him on his victory for two? And the President of Poland. After the election, the President of Poland wrote congratulations on the good... [[Voice from the gym: The result of the election.]] No, a good election campaign for President Biden's election. A good election campaign. Did he congratulate and acknowledge this election, and recognize Biden's victory? Question is, did he ever congratulate Biden on not a good election campaign, just winning the election? This is the direction that PiS is taking us to the rocks. This is a direction that is not only related to rational analysis, but also... It's not just that. And I can hear it here in your voices, putting it on one option, because it's going to be better, because that's how we think it's better. No. Here you can see the ideological kinship. I can see that. Therefore, the Senators of the PiS do not want to support this resolution. That's why the piss senators say, well, we don't have the authority to do that. The Senate doesn't have the authority, and he ever had one when he ran the PiS here? The Senate is not competent to deal with this situation in the United States, which affects Poland? Doesn't he have the authority to demand information from the government? This was also the case. So now that PiS isn't in charge, the Senate doesn't have any powers? PiS appeal: get out of this situation of some stupor. You bet on Trump, but Biden won. And in this situation you must also do everything to make Poland... I mean, for Poland it is not a problem, but you should do everything to make sure that it is not a problem for you, because you rule in Poland and will probably rule for some time. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Marshal...]] I'm gonna end this appeal because it's hard not to see what happened in Washington. And we're all watching it. And it's hard not to have a clear relationship with that. If there is an attack on the heart of democracy, it is not just an attack on democracy there.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u261	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Please take the floor of Marshal Michael Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u262	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I go to the present dimension of this terrible case, to the dimension of how the government ends, which begins with a lie and continues in a lie, I would like to say that it is important that we see what we are talking about today, the attempt of a coup we have just seen in Washington, in a historical context also for us Poles. On 2 April 1917, the United States Senate, the same Senate that was attacked this week, made an important decision for the world and for Poland to join the United States in World War I. Since then, i.e. how easy it is to count for 104 years, the United States of America from our Polish perspective has saved us and Europe from German imperialism twice. They defeated the Soviet Union, as well as actively, under the administrations of various Republican and democratic presidents, the United States built world and European order in which Poland felt and felt best for hundreds of years. This order has been questioned. He was first challenged by what happened in Russia after he came to power by Vladimir Putin, who made the fundamental objective of Russian policy to reverse all the political consequences of the collapse of the Soviet Union. Vladimir Putin from the very beginning and consistently wanted to reverse what happened after the appellate victory of the United States of America and the free world over Soviet Russia. Vladimir Putin could not do this in an armed confrontation, even his predecessors, the first secretaries of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, could not do so by armed means. Vladimir Putin has chosen the way of breaking the West from the center of his support for all those forces that question the common values of the West, the support of all those forces that will strive to return to the 19th century style, the nationalist style of politics in the world and in Europe, because in such a concert of powers, which is destructive to Poland, Russia, by force, will play a key role. In many countries of Western democracy, the Russians supported Brexitites, Lepenots, and autocrats. It is certainly not a coincidence that Russia's most public, revealed participation in any western election campaign is Russia's participation in the 2016 election campaign, proven under all the procedures of the American State. After all, the only legal doubts concern only whether Donald Trump knew this and knowingly used this aid rather than that Russian aid to Donald Trump was provided in 2016. This victory by Trump contributed to the further crisis of the West. This crisis was evident, symbolically, last week. I am talking about an institution not only for the United States, but also for the whole Western symbolic, which is the United States Parliament of North America. In the choir of people scared of what happened and the most important democratic institution in the most important democratic country of the world was attacked, which also depends on our Polish security... The whole world united in opposition to these disgraceful events. There was no voice in it. And it doesn't have to be weird. President of Russia, Vladimir Putin. But the fact that the Polish President's vote was lacking in this matter must cause our greatest surprise. It is not the Polish opposition, it is not the media and political opponents of this government that published the cover with Donald Trump and Jarosław Kaczyński as twin leaders of the new world and the new right. It wasn't Andrew Duda's opponents, it was Andrew Duda himself who said he had almost everything in common with Donald Trump. So today you had a chance to say that you didn't know that you didn't see the amazing analogy of the lie that Trump started with your lie about the Smoleńsk catastrophe. There's a lie about the alleged un-American origin of Barack Obama, and here's a lie about the Smolensk bombing. Conspiracy theories, juggling your own citizens against each other. You could say today: it's not our world, we condemn it. There's no voice left. There was no obvious voice. And for the president of France, the chancellor of Germany, the president of small Slovakia and the secretary-general of NATO... I repeat, almost everyone in the world knows what's going on in America, and they know it's an assassination attempt, and they know it's an assassination attempt on democracy. That is why the Polish Senate is taking the floor. Because we are in solidarity with the Americans today, just like they were in solidarity with us when we had to fight for our freedom. Then what you rightly reminded Senator Klich, Joe Biden as a young senator After that, not so young. He was always on the side of Poland, in those times when we needed allies on the Capitol. And today this reflection should accompany us: how does the power end, which does not respect its political opponents. As the power ends, who calls those who disagree with it a worse sort of thing. When the government ends, when it hears that it has lost democratic elections, it screams to the crowd: go and fight to the end. And that's how President Trump screamed. And it is known that what this crowd did And no one has any doubts about it today. This was done by President Trump. That is why today we are so outraged by the fact that public television, whose president was far too early enjoying the victory of Trump's opponents and celebrating his victory... [[Voice from the room: Bidena.]] ...in her programs she compared this crowd to the Polish opposition. And from this stand I will repeat with all responsibility for the words: Polish opposition has nothing to do with the crowd that devastated the Capitol, agitated by President Trump, who has much to do with Polish power. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u263	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, please. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u264	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will admit that I listened attentively to these statements, and of course I took part in the meeting of our Legislative Commission in the morning, during which we examined this draft resolution, and I think we have here two layers: the political layer and the substance layer of the text itself. As far as the political layer is concerned, I would say that by listening to the statements of the representatives of the Senate majority and the opposition to the current government, I have the impression that this resolution is not just about condemning those who have committed acts of violence, although it is, of course, in the text of the resolution, but rather about using a certain instrument for the settlement of internal affairs in Poland and the dispute between the opposition and the government majority. Because let's be honest and brutal: the Americans don't need this resolution. This resolution is more needed to emphasize its way of thinking. And that's a political layer. And that is why I personally protested against such stigmatization, imputing the intention to block resolutions and the kind of formulation that fell during the debate. I personally believe that... of course, it would be good to know the foreign minister's position on this project. During the committee meeting, Mr Klich presented the course of this correspondence between the Commission and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Indeed, it is regrettable here that this director, who was supposed to be, was not. It was supposed to be, apparently, the director of the American Department or the American Department. I don't know the structure of the Foreign Office that well. Well, it would be good to hear his opinion. Maybe it was possible to send an additional e-mail that we are therefore asking for the position of the Polish Government in writing. Perhaps it would affect, perhaps there could be some consensus on this matter. As a general rule I'm sure I'll surprise you. I would have signed this draft resolution, but I also tried to familiarize myself with the positions of the various European leaders of the public. Well, for example. Pedro Sánchez, from Spain, also uses the phrase "I believe in the power of American democracy." It's literally in this text. Well, a similar wording is in the text of the draft resolution. However, as far as the very important leaders of European public opinion are concerned, I did not find what they said about the bombing. Yes, there was condemnation for the aggressors, there were different expressions of this kind, but there was no word of the bombing. And that's why I think, out of procedural caution... Well, once again, President Marcin Bosacki himself, presenting the draft at the committee meeting, said that in the United States there is a thorough investigation, an investigation. There are institutions there that are working to get to know the inspirational and the course of these events, to find out what it all looked like. If we had modified the first two sentences of the second paragraph of this project, I would have been willing to support it. These sentences should be redacted so that it's not too emotional. After all, we are adopting a resolution on a very hot topic, which is not yet fully recognized. And that is why, High Izbo, I propose such a change so that the first two sentences of the second paragraph are as follows: "We deeply regret those dramatic events that have shocked the world's public opinion. We condemn those who have committed a violation of the law and have committed acts of violence. And then there would be this text, which is in the project: At the same time we express... Further text in principle does not raise my objections. I think that if we made such a change and withdrew from this rather risky statement... such a colloquial term could fall into a public debate, but this is a resolution of the Senate, it is a document of some rank, so every word would be worth considering carefully. That is why I propose this amendment to the High House. I'm putting it in the hands of Marshal Kaminski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u265	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski. [[Voice from the room: He's gone.]] As I understand it, he's sitting remotely. Yes? [[Voice from the room: No, he's gone.]] [[Voice from the room: No, not remotely....]] I'm sorry, in that case... If the senator shows up and the discussion isn't over, it's customary, as I understand it, to allow him to speak. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u266	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In erystics, you sometimes use an argument to a person, an argument ad personam. This is done when there are no arguments in the discussion and you try to touch a person, focusing on its characteristics, trying to draw the attention of those who are listening, to the assessment of their caller rather than to the arguments. Please note that if you do not believe, then question this, then it stays on the Internet that we have talked, we should talk about a resolution. In some statements, 3/4 of the time was devoted to the Law and Justice, of course, this party was presented in an unfavorable light. That's the level of argument. If you don't have an argument, you hit your opponent. It doesn't have to be an opponent, it hits an interlocutor who's on the other side. I recommend we interrogate this and see how many charges have been made here. The lightest part was that PiS is afraid of something, that PiS politicians, the PIS senators are afraid of something, which means they're worse, they have something behind their claws. I, gentlemen and ladies, do not accuse you of anything, I want to speak with you about this resolution seriously. Let's see what the next vote is. Fact one. Does the Senate of the Republic of Poland have the right to issue such a resolution? Paradoxically, he does. The Senate can decide anything, but it should measure the texts that come out of his hands. And this is where we enter the constitutional field. Art. 7: The public authorities shall act on the basis and within the limits of the law. So if we make a text, we should have a legal basis for it and we should limit ourselves to what the constitution or laws authorize us to do. It's about competence, right and duty. Who conducts international politics? I'm asking because this text is part of international policy. We'll explain in a minute. The President of the Republic of Poland in the field of foreign policy shall cooperate with the President of the Council of Ministers and with the appropriate Minister of Justice. Article 133 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3nd Constitution, not with the Senate. Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Council Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament The Senate doesn't do that. Every speech... Like I said, any text can come out of the Senate because the Senate can pass resolutions. Every statement should be within the limits of the law, because that is how the authorities of the Republic of Poland operate, that is how they should act. But we don't have the right to conduct foreign policy. No matter who gives the information, we have no authority in the Constitution. Who has that right? I just read it. And that is why I have been so persistently asking whether those who are the initiators of this text have sent an official letter asking for the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which should be best informed and have the widest picture of the situation because they are simply dealing with it, i.e. foreign affairs. No, you invited me here. Please note... I don't want to explain anybody, tell them why he came or why he didn't come, but if anyone was supposed to walk in here on a patchwork and charges against the Law and Justice, maybe also the Foreign Office, we don't know that. Well, just for a fight, in quotes, of course, politically, I'm not surprised that he's not here. And you know why? Because he has appeared here, and repeatedly, a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we know this from President Klich. Question is, what happened, why didn't he show up now? Come on, let's leave it. The question is also: why didn't you ask the Foreign Ministry for an official opinion? He doesn't have that opinion. Question is, would she be useful? Yes, of course. Then we'd know what the facts are. It's not about Facebook, it's not about discussing with these or other stations, it's about facts. Of course we've seen the facts, these, I'd call it media coverage. But we don't know exactly what happened there. And I'd like to know what these facts are. Maybe we'll find out after a while. But in general, no matter what these facts are. They were and are appalling, it's true, because it was an attack on the Capitol, the first time in modern times. It's not Poland, it's not a Polish authority that should judge these facts and try to... I'll quote here the words of one of the previous speakers, although I'll keep my name quiet. The Senate should address the situation in the United States by default: our Senate, the Senate of the Republic. Should we take care of the situation in the United States? Well, on the one hand. It's kind of a megalomania. I say this, of course, with all due respect to our House. On the other hand, would you like other authorities, authorities in other countries to deal with the situation with us? Is that how it's supposed to be? Maybe that's what you want, but it's already your... well, it's your problem, too. I think that we should solve our problems, problems in Poland There's probably a lot of them, there's a lot of them. With your own strength. The most important thing is therefore: the Senate, having no authority to do so, tries, as it is nicely, poetically expressed by one of the previous speakers, to address the situation in the United States. Is there any way she's gonna change it? Of course not. And this is where the answer to the next question is bowed down. Why has there been no resolution, no appeal, no position of any other parliament in the democratic world? Well, I know we're generally top-notch... But why aren't we doing it and others doing it? Perhaps they respect each other, respect the fact that we should not interfere in the internal affairs of other countries. Because then you can expect these other countries to stay out of our internal affairs. I'm not talking about cooperation here, I'm gonna say it at the end. There have been examples of resolutions, for example For example, after the attack on two towers on 11 September 2001, it is difficult. It touched all of us, the fact, really all of us. But, ladies and gentlemen, if you're comparing a terrorist attack, an external attack, with a clear intention of attacking the state and its authorities, with a very violent political struggle. Because what we saw at the Capitol was one of the forms of political struggle, maybe not democratic, I agree with that, but still fighting within the United States itself... These are two completely different situations! In that case, by the way, we were in action later, I would call it a retaliatory, directly linked attack. That's what they're asking us to do. The United States, and rightly so, in my opinion. Because if you're an ally, it's for better or worse. Is there anyone in the United States who has now applied to us for help in subjugation, let's call it, to go to the Capitol? Do you see the difference? What is this resolution about? Well, the discussion is about it, it just comes out. The stitches are plucking in this text and it comes out during the discussion. The point is to hit the PiS. Another tool to point out that the PiS doesn't work well. I don't know, bad, incompetent, bad will, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, how can you tell that it's kind of... I don't know what to call it, not to offend you. Well, it's coming out, just like a fastriga on top. We hear that the President, our President Andrzej Duda, did not congratulate the President-elect. That's not true. He did it when the Elector College approved... well, maybe it didn't, but they said who the elected president was. That's not enough: President Duda's letter told the President-elect. So, what's it like? Our president corresponds with the President-elect, and you say he doesn't? So where are your facts? Too late? Maybe it's when we're dealing with legal acts, not facebooks, that the head of state should be talking. That's the best term you want, although it's so little senate to hit the PiS. You can understand that. But in my opinion, this resolution is a second bottom, unfortunately, much more serious. You guys are checking in, too. This is also seen in one paragraph, in the penultimate substantive paragraph. You speak this way abroad because it will reach abroad, that there is a centre in Poland that is able, at least it seems so, to conduct an alternative foreign policy. Other democracies don't do that. There the opposition either cooperates with the government outside, outside the borders, and if it has a completely different opinion, it just sits quietly, wins the election and then executes its program. [[Or he's in jail.]] Okay, who's in jail? Exactly, Mr. Marshal. Don't compare these periods. Because I take you seriously because of your resume. [[You know the situation in Belarus.]] But I wasn't talking about Belarus. I'm talking about democracy, about the outside world. ♪ West of us, so be it ♪ Okay, let's put it aside. I have not heard that any parliament of external Western democracy interferes with the internal affairs of the United States. And you say, yes, we're ready, we volunteer, remember that we exist, and we want, if anything, we're ready to conduct an alternative foreign policy. It's going too far. This resolution is going too far in this case. Don't do this. You can see from the text, as I say, at least from the end of this text. and from the discussion also You're not only mistreating the PiS government, but you just don't want to, you're not in a position to accept the judgments of democracy. Well, you're not. You say, maybe this PiS is in charge here, inside, has problems, doesn't have these problems, everyone has them, with COVID, but outside we're ready to conduct an alternative policy, we volunteer. Ladies and gentlemen, this is terrible, really bad. Why? Because that's not how you get the other side's respect. No one will respect those who are trying to undermine democratic procedures, democratic judgments of their sovereign, their nation. And as for relations with the United States, I'm glad we have such an ally. His business here. The United States in Central Europe is in line with ours. We have common political, economic, energy, defence, military goals. Never so well, in my opinion, Poland was not secured at this sensitive geopolitical point. Let's not mess this up. Let's just have our honor and work together on normal terms with the United States. Don't kiss up like that, gentlemen and ladies, because you're not gonna get anything. I really do. It's a terrible thing to say. That is why I am giving you the opportunity to reflect and I am asking you to reject this text at second reading.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u267	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u268	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! To be honest, I'm a little appalled by everything I've heard, especially just a little while ago. And that's why I'm gonna start differently than I wanted to start. First of all, I express my great surprise at such a mania of the Persecutive Law and Justice Not everything revolves around Law and Justice and not every act, more or less political, is directed against Law and Justice. I'm sure Senator Bosacki will agree with me because we talked about this last week when we even thought about this resolution after these events... We were quite convinced that the entire Senate would adopt this resolution by acclamation. That is why the text of this resolution was designed so as not to offend anyone There was no name, there was no name of any political party, either in Poland or in the United States. The text was constructed carefully so that all parliamentary clubs in the Senate could accept it. That's why I'm here. Not only amazed, but also bitter with your attitude. And now I'd like to refer to 'Cause I wouldn't be a lawyer if I didn't. For the charges that have been brought here, and which no one has dismissed. So, first of all, there were positions that we were supposed to ask for an opinion that we were not waiting for an opinion that we had a grudge against the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. As far as legal issues are concerned, I will quote 'Cause I think the senators will be satisfied then. That Article shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. 60 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) Point 3 of the Senate Rules of Procedure states that, at the request of a committee or committee If we are talking about this right to drive, as it was stated It's not quite true. Foreign policy, of course, I agree that on the basis of the article. 146 of the Constitution is chaired by the Council of Ministers. But what happened in the United States on January 6 was an attack on the United States Congress, the United States Senate. I'm not just talking about the building anymore, I'm talking about the institution. The resolution is addressed to the Senate of the United States, to Congress, and in accordance with Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 3 of the Senate's Rules of Procedure, Marshal of the Senate deals with relations with the parliaments of other countries That's by the way. And now I will refer to the words on whether this resolution is more or less dramatic or whether the word "bomb" is concrete here. Well, here's the word "bomb." And that is the word that President-elect Joe Biden has repeatedly used in his speech. The bombing. It's one of the darkest days in the history of the United States of America. An unprecedented attack, an attack on democracy, the bastion of freedom, the Capitol, the rule of law, the most sacred. This is part of Joe Biden's speech. We mourn the victims. We mourn the desecration of the national sanctuary. The President is not the King, Congress is not the House of Lords. The judiciary does not serve the President's will, and it is not to protect him, and justice serves the nation, it does not serve the mighty of this world, but it is also said to the public by President-elect Joe Biden. And in order not to extend, I would like to say another sentence which, I believe, is as appropriate to all democracy as possible, not only in the United States, not only in Poland, not only in every other country of the European Union: we are a government of law, not of people, not of the nation, but of rights, because this law is sovereign, not of people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u269	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u270	Ladies and gentlemen! In the five minutes I still have, I would like to refer to the two statements that have been made by my previous speakers representing the Law and Justice, Senator Jackowski and Senator Czerwinski, as an explanation, of course. Senator Jackowski said such a sentence, which is seemingly quite true: the Americans do not need this resolution. It is true that this resolution is needed first of all for us, Poles, to remember, because some have forgotten what solidarity is all about. But it seems to me that this resolution is also needed for the Americans to know that Poland has not turned away in the last five years since solidarity. Very often at various international meetings I am asked by the great friends of Poland, not by the great growth, not by the great function, but by those who supported Poland for decades: "What happened to your solidarity? Where did your solidarity go? After all, solidarity was an export product of Poland for 25 years. This solidarity you impressed us with, this solidarity you showed as your trademark. I believe that this resolution, at a time when Americans need such solidarity, is also needed for the Americans, because it shows this solidarity face of our country, it shows that we can still be solidarityal. But she, Mr Senator, is needed by the Americans, the new American administration also because there are already a lot of disputes about partnership with Poland. As you will see, Mr. Senator, to the last issue of the Foreign Affairs, however prestigious foreign policy paper would be, you will see that President Biden's initiative is being discussed there, which he put forward in his election campaign, namely the organisation of the summit of democracy. And there are those who believe that President Biden should organize this summit of democracy, but there are those who believe that he should not withdraw from this idea. Forgive me for quoting myself, but I can't find the original quote right now. In the recent publication of an article on Wyborcza.pl, I wrote a quote from statements from a large article by two authors who believe that Poland should not be invited to the summit of democracy. I repeat: Poland, like Hungary, should not be invited to the summit of democracy. Do you realize what it would mean to have no Poland at the summit of democracy organized by the President of the United States, at a time when the Community of Democracy was established in Poland in 2000, i.e. a forum that does not only exist further, but which was created on our initiative, on the Polish initiative? And now they ask in the world whether Poland should be invited to this summit if President Biden organises this summit. They exchange Poland with one breath: with the Hungarians Orbán, with Turkey Erdoğana, with Brazil Bolsonaro and with India under new leadership - No, not that new. A nationalist prime minister. And they ask if there is any sense in organizing this summit, since the countries I have mentioned would not be invited because they have left the ideal of democracy in recent years. I believe, therefore, that this resolution is needed for the American people to know that the ideals of democracy are alive in Poland, that the ideals of democracy are still alive in Poland. Mr. Senator Czerwiński is talking about the fact that we are some kind of "we" and, as I understand it, the opposition, we are reporting to the new administration of President Biden. Mr. Senator, we don't have to volunteer because this opposition you mean has something that the government in Poland doesn't have in the eyes of the new administration, namely credibility. And she doesn't have to work for that credibility. With this credibility, on the occasion of this project, we want to share this credibility with you, i.e. with the majority currently in power in Poland. This project, if you have already introduced this thread of the Polish competition, is a lifeline cast to you, who have been used to breaking the rule of law in the last five years and undermining its democratic procedures. This isn't about some... We don't want to be a merciful Samaritan. It's not about getting the PiS out of this dead end. The point is to get Poland out of this blind alley, Poland, which you have driven into this blind alley with your reckless politics. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u271	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u272	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I had the same impression when the motion for a resolution was discussed at the committee meeting and there were allegations and objections to this motion for a resolution by the senators. I had the same impression, the impression of such a great surprise, because I even used that phrase at the committee meeting. This resolution just seems nice to me. That's something everyone should sign off on. And now it turns out she's uncomfortable for someone. Well, I have to ask the question: why? What is the reason that... maybe less on the part of Senator Jackowski, because I think that the senator after the committee meeting got even more acquainted, read it carefully and came to the conclusion that it may not be so bad, although there are some proposals for change there. But what Senator Czerwiński says is such a deep disagreement, a deep opposition to this motion, this resolution. And here I have to say that of course I have some suspicion, but I'm not going to develop it, because I'm going to be accused again of being mainly about criticizing the PiS or, as it's said, adding to the Law and Justice. So I'm not going to dig into it, analyze it, and psych it, but all I'm saying is that it's hard to understand. I want to talk to you about some of the arguments that have been made here. First line. On the side of the PiS it keeps scrolling here, time we hear that the Senate cannot adopt practically any resolutions at all. If he has the right to adopt a resolution, it's only about the year... [[Christmas.]] ...some kind of Christmas. Then, yes, he may adopt a resolution, but in some substantive matter, when he expresses a position that may even be controversial for some senators, he absolutely cannot adopt a resolution. Oh, no. No. This is the Political Chamber and it will adopt resolutions, it will take such positions. As the PiS held power in this House, he did not adopt such resolutions, but this is already the case of this party. The second issue concerns foreign policy. Can we interfere with foreign policy? Well, I'm sorry, any approach to another parliament can be treated as a foreign policy, for example. We speak sympatheticly, and we should be unsympathetic, or we should remain silent, because when we speak sympatheticly, it means that we approve of something. But that leads to absurdity. That's one thing. Secondly, Senator Czerwiński is the author of the draft resolution, with which we have a problem. This is a project called "The Dementia of the Göring Decree," in which it is clearly written that the Senate demands certain actions by the German Government, reparations, etc. Well, I'm sorry, and this... This is an intervention in foreign policy and it turns out that it can be done. The senator will say yes, but the foreign minister backs it up. He had the opportunity to come here and support. We read, Senator Klich quoted the handwriting, everything, behavior, etc. It's just a shame to comment. So I would suggest not to use these arguments anymore, but to think about the substantive issue, what it says, what the purpose is, and so on. Is that what's wrong with us? Oh, there was mention of kissing up, not kissing up. Well, Mr. Senator, all you had to do was observe President Duda's behavior towards President Trump over the last four years... That was quite a suck-up festival. "Fort Trump" including the name "Fort Trump." It's a good thing it wasn't called that in the end, because I don't know if Biden would have pulled all the troops in this situation. There's one more thing. Yes, we can be grateful to Trump for increasing his presence in Poland. Okay. But he did it this way, e.g. He was moving troops from Germany. In the United States alone, in the United States Congress in the final phase of Trump's presidency, there were some kind of voices: well, if Trump leaves his post and Biden comes, we'll turn it around. Well, I don't think we care about that. The fact that we are adopting this resolution, that we are talking about solidarity, that we want more cooperation, that is movement in the right direction. This is a movement that shows Congress that it's not like... that Mr. President Duda congratulated us after the electoral meeting while others have submitted earlier. Mr. Senator Czerwinski, you say Mr. Duda made a deposit when it was known that Biden had won. I'll remind you that when the Dead won, President Duda congratulated him the next day... [[Voice from the room: morning.]] ...in the morning, as soon as the newspapers or the most important television stations reported who won the election. And Biden knows that. After all, he knows it was like this, and now it's like this. The next argument is that other parliaments don't speak... I'll say this. If President Duda had acted the way he had to react, quickly, we would not have adopted any resolutions. That's what happened in other countries. Where the prime ministers or presidents responded immediately, often calling things by name, for example. of the disgraceful events, the shameful attack, of course, there is no need for parliaments to speak. We, we can say, act in the interests of Poland, in the interests of the country and also in the interests of the government. In conclusion, I'll add... Oh, last but not least, about the use of certain words. I confirm what was said here. It's called an assassination in the United States. It's not a coup d'état, it's not like the army went out on the streets, but after all, the purpose of the actions that were there was to stop these procedures, simply to prevent the election candidate from being approved. It's something quite extraordinary. We seem to have got used to the fact that strange things are happening in the world, but it's really hard to get used to what was happening at the Capitol. It was kind of an assassination. And now as to whether there were those who were instigating them, of course. If anyone thinks we have someone in particular here in mind... We have different people in mind. There were organizations all over, they're still working, all the organizations that were communicating... The so-called ones. I guess Proud Boys and others, etc., just instigated, of course, some of them even came armed. I think the wording... We can still discuss this in the committee, but I do not think that these terms go beyond the language used in these matters. Senator Czerwiński always proposes to discuss facts so as not to personalize arguments. So I tried to do it. The senator may disagree with me, but I think I have presented counter-arguments on the issues that you have raised and, to be brief, I agree fully with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u273	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of Marshal Michael Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u274	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will be brief because of one of the very important allegations that have been made in this debate at our address, two of my honourable speakers have responded. Our action is primarily pro-state. We are here, and it is worth stressing that the administration, which has no doubt about it, will rule the most powerful country in the world and is the owner of the world's most powerful army and our greatest ally, is aware that not everyone in Poland believes that people who wanted to reverse democratic elections in the United States are cool, and that not all people think like Putin. In short, we want to show the Americans: we're not like the Russians Putin, we're part of the free world. And any normal person wouldn't have thought that this case could be the subject of a conflict with the government, a conflict with foreign policy. Because we hear that we cannot speak because we do not know what the government's position is. And what might be the position of the Polish Government, the Brightest Republic of Poland, in the attempt to assassinate people who wore T-shirts with the inscription "Camp Auschwitz"? What's the relationship we're supposed to have? We, Poles, to the people who praised the creators of Nazi camps and stormed the Capitol? How can a Pole feel about it? How can we wonder if there are different opinions on this matter? There are no differences of opinion in this matter. In a moment the new administration will take decisions in the key case of Nord Stream for Poland. Will it maintain Donald Trump's policy or will it not? What do you say then? I understand. You and Trump kept it to the end. It was stupid. But why were you with him when he wasn't even with his vice president? We try to save the interests of the Republic, show in the United States that there are Poles who love freedom and love the principles of the Western world. But if I from this tribune, then à speaking of the principles of the free world, I hear that the Minister of Foreign Affairs did not come here, which the Polish constitution and regulations oblige him to do, because they oblige him to appear before the part of the legislative authority, which is the Senate of the Republic, if I from this tribune from my mouth undoubtedly one of the most prominent senators of this present senate minority I hear that the minister did not come because he might feel uncomfortable here, because we have a different opinion... Excuse me, but let's get back to this, Mr. Senator, it's from the ministers hearing things uncomfortable here. Unless this is the Supreme Council of the Soviet Union or the North Korean pseudo-parliament, the Minister, as he comes to Parliament, sorry, Mr. Senator, can hear unpleasant things for himself. Of course, the last thing I could imagine as the one in which the Polish Foreign Minister will argue with the Polish Senators will be whether the assassination in America is on the same side as Putin or on that side as the rest of the world. Indeed, in this case the difference between Poles is astonishing. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Tomasz Grodzki]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u275	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u276	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Already said a lot, so I will try to speak briefly. Well, it would be very strange if the Senate kept quiet about it. Imagine a historian who deals with the political history of Poland, the history of parliament and asks why the Senate kept silent on a matter that is important from the point of view and history, and the security of international order, and the future of healthy political systems. Let me remind you that we and the Americans share a common constitutional tradition, i.e. This is not a uniform constitutional tradition, but for a reason Americans can say that they are the authors of the first written constitution in the history of the world, and we can say that we are the authors of the second and the first one on the Old Continent. Besides, the American Enlightenment was closer to Polish enlightenment than the legacy of the French Revolution. Here was an attempt to integrate enlightenment ideas with its own political culture, with a strong presence in both countries of the Christian tradition, of which the political right should remember. The second point is what Marshal Kaminski was just talking about. We looked at it with horror because chaos in the United States is not the same as chaos in a small or medium-sized country. It's something that wobbles the entire international order. We've had our solitude lesson worked out and our co-operation lesson with the Americans. Even if we feel absolutely safe, which we do not have the right to, because there are a lot of threats around us, there is a country with an imperialist attitude, it cannot be indifferent to anyone who looks with concern at the safety of the entire family of nations. The chaos in this country would become global chaos. And the third question. There's only one happiness in this misfortune. This is a great warning for the future. It is a good thing that the free world reacts so basically that the tangled sides of the free world react in principle. Because if President Macron and Boris Johnson react the same way, then there is, however, a team of common values of civilized states. And it would be desirable for all political forces in Poland to share this view. Finally, we need to ask ourselves what was at the root of this rebellion or the attempt of a coup. It's one of the sources of populism, populism, which, in fact, has different versions. Right-wing populism has spoken in America, but there is also extremely left-wing populism refusing to accept constitutional democracy. The deep source of populism is the belief that a political rival is not worthy to conduct a state policy, that he is something worse, that Biden's rule is the end of the world, because the rival is something worse. I hope that this view will never triumph in Poland, because it is the most devastating for constitutional democracy. The rival is not worse, he has the right to conduct state policy as well as the current government. It's worth thinking about, because it's a deep source of what happened. I hope that in Poland it will never explode with such force that it can destroy the foundations of the political system and real competition, political competition. We speak on behalf of the rules, on behalf of the security of the world, on behalf of the interests of the Republic. If we had not done so, we would have committed a sin of omission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u277	Thank you very much, senator. Please take the floor of Senator Marcin Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u278	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. First of all, I would like to make a formal request that the joint legislative and foreign committees should be able to present their report to the High Senate at this meeting, after considering these proposals, to present their recommendations and to have the third reading held at this Senate meeting. To be honest, High Izbo, I have been here since this morning, since the discussion at the committee meeting and the receipt of information that the Government of the Republic was invited to do so, although it was obliged to do so, did not want to give an opinion on this resolution... And he could have done it twice. Well, he wasn't at the committee meeting this morning, and he didn't show up at the High House meeting this evening, which is considering this motion for a resolution. I am deeply shocked because, in preparing this motion for a resolution, we really were absolutely convinced that in the interests and the nation, and the Polish state, it is after what happened on January 6, 2021 in Washington, to say three basic things. Firstly, we wanted to express our solidarity with our serious ally, not just military ones. Many senators have mentioned a common tradition of freedom, democracy and the rule of law. In the resolution we also write about the fact that this tradition is almost 250 years old, because Poles about the United States of America already fought in the war for independence of the United States, which began in 1776. It is simply a moral imperative to express normal solidarity with the American people at the time of the attack on the basis of American democracy. Secondly, we are convinced that It is in the political interest of the Polish state. The world is ripped apart. What happened a few days ago at the American Capitol is that more than two months of contesting the absolutely undisputed election results in America is just a manifestation of this vibration. The world of the West, not without the help of political opponents, especially Russia... We know about Russia's influence on elections in the United States and referendums such as that in the United Kingdom. We know about cyber attacks on the key infrastructure of the United States, but not just the United States, as well as some European countries. There is a need for solidarity in this crisis. After such a clear symbol of this crisis as the attack on the Capitol in Washington, D.C., such solidarity is necessary. All countries of the West, all without exception, with the voices of various representatives Presidents, prime ministers, heads of state, crowned heads of state, but also members of parliament This solidarity has been expressed. There is a struggle between the forces that want to renew democracy as we know it, to improve it in a traditional way, through traditional political methods, peaceful methods, and the forces that President Trump is representing, the forces that want to use for this purpose new political tools, mainly to sow fear and create divisions within their societies. This is a fight that affects all countries, the countries of the West. In some of them it takes on such drastic forms as in the United States in recent days and weeks, and in others it is fortunately milder. But it is absolutely clear that in the United States at this moment there is a far-reaching political breakthrough, that these forces of chaos and populism whose governments end so tragically, as we saw on January 6th, are yielding to the forces represented by Joe Biden. I would remind you that, both during the electoral campaign and after the victory, and in the last days after the assassination of democracy, he made it clear that the idea was to renew democracy, to renew on the basis of the rule of law, that we are states, we, in the West, are legal-based republics, it is paramount. And to this absolutely crucial redefining of American policy, the allies of the United States, including Poland, must refer. So in the interest of purely political Poland It is not only a moral imperative, but also an expression of political discretion, it is a reference to this crucial breakthrough in American politics, because America remains the main guarantee of the safety of the Western world. At this point, not recognizing these obvious facts by the executive authority of the Republic of Poland is simply a political mistake. Besides, only the culmination of the entire chain of errors, which this authority has been making in foreign policy for 5 years, mistakes which have already resulted in almost total solitude of Poland in the international arena. This resolution is also a lifeline that we throw to other authorities of the Polish state And, unfortunately, you're rejecting this wheel. It is absolutely clear that it is in the interest of the Republic of Poland to express solidarity with the American people, to express faith in the sustainability of the democratic order in America, but also to execute an important political gesture towards the new team in the United States and to say: yes, we want to renew and strengthen the Polish-American alliance and the European-American alliance on the basis of principles of freedom, democracy and the rule of law. This is simply the logic of the current international political situation, such unambiguous expression of the will of the state of Poland is in Polish interest. But unfortunately, like late congratulations to the winner of the American elections, so also infantility 'Cause there's no other way to say it. The infantile response to what happened in the United States on January 6 makes a reasonable question: are we ruled by adults? The Republic should make itself clear, confirm that it is part of the West, as other partners do, and especially the new American authorities, which invite this West to renew our community of democracy, to renew the community of free world countries. And this resolution, in addition to expressing solidarity with the American people, is intended to serve this very purpose. I have already lost hope, after the two votes of the Senators of the PiS, that the country's point of view, which mainly takes into account the Polish national interest, is not based only on ordinary human decency, you support. But stop putting logs at the foot of this resolution, which is in the national interest of the Republic of Poland. I call you to this. If you can't support her for some Utopian ideological reason, at least abstain. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u279	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Rafał the locksmith and Alexander the Swed have made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by senators Alexander Szwed, Jan Maria Jackowski and Jerzy Czerwiński. The discussion is closed. I should ask if a government representative would like to respond to the proposals presented, but there is no one to ask. I will therefore announce that, as legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate is directing the motion for a resolution to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. Senator Bosacki has requested that the committees set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the motion for a resolution at this Senate meeting. If I don't hear the votes of objection, I'll find the Senate has accepted the motion. We're moving on to the next point. The meetings will be held by 10 p.m. and then there will be committee meetings. We begin to consider item 17 of the agenda: second reading of the draft resolution at the end of the St. John Paul's Year II. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 285, and the report is published in print No 285 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u280	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House, on behalf of the Legislative Committee, but also as a representative of the applicants, a report on the draft resolution at the end of the Year of St. John Paul II. Senator's print number 285. I would like to stress that the Marshal sent this draft resolution to the Legislative Commission on 8 December in order to consider it at first reading. I would like to thank the Marshal for agreeing to the proposal to give effect to this draft resolution without delay. We've come to work. The Commission met on this project on a three-fold basis. Once the meeting was supposed to be adjourned, but it was postponed because of the search for a greater consensus around the draft resolution. The second meeting, which was due to take place at the end of that Senate meeting, was also postponed until a better textual formula was found for this draft resolution. Finally, yesterday, January 11th, the committee considered, at first reading, the draft resolution submitted by the applicants, amended it and asked the Senate to adopt a uniform draft resolution at the end of the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the birth of St. John Paul II. This is the formula of the report in Senate printing No 285 S, but I would like to speak to the High House about the work on this resolution during the committee's meeting and also between the meetings, because as a result of the meetings of the applicants with other senators, I think it was possible to draw up a good formula for this text, taking into account the comments which were directed towards this project. I would like to stress here that during the committee's meeting, I tabled a text in the form of an auto-correction which essentially alters the original submission of this draft resolution. So that I would ask the senators to refer, in the course of a debate or discussion or in any proposals they wish to make, to print 285 S, which is amended, perhaps not really, in relation to the original submission. I'm talking about it because I've heard that some comments are still being held up. But I think that after reading this new text, you will see differences in accents, a change in the title of this proposed resolution, as well as some change of order and new elements that appeared in this draft resolution. I would like to say that during the committee meeting I accepted, in the form of an autocorrection, those suggestions which were made by, among others, the parties. Senator Halina Poory I would like to thank you very much for your cooperation on this project. As well as other representatives, other senators, Senator Klich, as well as Senator Czerwiński, as well as all those who contributed creatively to this draft resolution. As you've come to know, from senate print 285... I was the representative of the applicants who did not come from one political environment, because there were signatures of the Senators of Law and Justice, that is, my home club, but there were also signatures of senators from the Civic Coalition Club, the Polish People's Party, as well as non-attached senators. Therefore, in the course of the draft resolution, during the committee's meeting, I had to take into account the different sensitivity, different points of view, with a view to individual proposals for amendments made by the senators. And now I would like to stress that this text, which is printed in the report, in print No 285 S... Since there were various amendments, the chairman of the committee, Senator Kwiatkowski, proposed the following way of working: first of all, during the committee meeting, he put to the vote the initial draft together with those auto-corrections which were accepted, and this proposal received a majority, followed by other proposals for the draft resolution which were submitted some were only announced because they were not formally submitted The High Commission has no longer considered them. So much for the committee's work itself. I would like to thank you all once again very warmly. It was a substantive discussion, there were various comments... The main point that appeared was not to create a precedent that we were adopting a resolution because of the end of some year that was established. I will remind you that the Senate in October 2019, still in its previous term, adopted a resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 of St. John Paul's Year II, in the century of birth Because last year, May 18th, was the 100th, round anniversary of the birth of our great compatriot As a result, various commemorative symposiums, meetings, initiatives, exhibitions took place throughout the year. Unfortunately, due to the pandemic, which, of course, we have no influence on, the scale and extent of these events have been significantly changed. Thus, in the draft resolution, we propose to thank those who, however, have undertaken this effort. About the character of St. John Paul II, it was undoubtedly not only a spiritual leader, very important but also a leader of world public opinion at the turn of the 20th and 21st century, it was also appreciated in the environments of people with other views, other worldviews, other religions, as well as among non-believers, and undoubtedly was a person who played a very important role not only in Poland's life, as mentioned in the resolution, but it was also very important as to what was happening in the world at the turn of the 20th and 21st century, it was a very important reference point. After all these comments, I will read the text which was adopted by the Legislative Commission at yesterday's meeting. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland at the end of the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the birth of St. John Paul II. Pope John Paul II, whose 100th birthday anniversary we celebrated in 2020, played an important role not only in the history of Poland, but also in the history of the world. He was an undisputed authority and spiritual leader of millions of Catholics around the world, and for his efforts to promote peace and contribute to the development of interfaith dialogue and cooperation between nations, he was valued among the followers of other religions and unbelievers. He was also a persistent promoter of individual dignity and freedom and the right of nations to self - determination. The memorable words of St. John Paul II delivered in Warsaw in June 1979. Let your Spirit descend and renew the face of the earth. This land was a kind of announcement of democratic changes not only in Poland, but also throughout Central and Eastern Europe. Nor should we forget about the Pope's support for Poland's entry into the structures of a united Europe expressed in the slogan "From the Lublin Union to the European Union." This Pope from a faraway country was a tireless ambassador of Polish culture and history throughout his pontificate. For Catholics, he was an example of the holiness of life, and for many other religions or unbelievers he was an inspiration and an important reference point. He was always a priest, later as a bishop and cardinal, and above all as a pope. "Sensitive to human needs and weaknesses, while constantly preaching the message of human solidarity and Divine Mercy. The Senate of the Republic of Poland expresses its gratitude and appreciation to all institutions, schools, universities, museums, foundations, cultural institutions, as well as to people who have contributed to commemorating the life and work of our Great Rodak. Let the 100th anniversary of St. John Paul II will be a reminder of the wisdom of his ministry and teaching. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u281	Thank you very much, senator. Currently, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and an authorised representative of the applicants, who is Senator Jan Maria Jackowski in both cases. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. So I'm opening the discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for the vote, and Senator Alexander Swed has made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. [[Joy in the Chamber]] The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. And that's how we got to the end of the meeting. Messages, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u282	The meeting of the Legislative Commission today in the Plenary Room, together with other committees, on proposals submitted at second reading for the following projects... 10 minutes after the end of the session, a meeting of the Legislative Committee together with the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development will begin on proposals submitted to the draft law amending the Hunting Law. Then, 20 minutes after the end of the session, there is a meeting with the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on proposals submitted to the draft law amending the Law on Social Assistance. Then, 30 minutes after the end of the session, the meeting together with the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on proposals submitted to the draft law amending the Act on Regional Government and the Act on Regional Government. 40 minutes after the end of the session, the meeting together with the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee, the first reading of the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. I 60 minutes after the end of the session, a meeting with the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union on the proposals tabled for a motion for a resolution on strengthening cooperation with the United States. Last Communication: a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Laws and Petitions on the consideration of the amendments tabled at the 20th Senate meeting to the Law amending the Prison Service Act, the Law on the Prevention and Control of Infections and Diseases in Human Beings, and the Act on Special Solutions related to the Prevention, Prevention and Control of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them will take place on 13 January, 9.30 a.m., in room 182. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-12-senat-20-2.u283	Thank you very much. I'm calling a recess until 10:00 tomorrow. I remind you of the committee that will begin in ten minutes. I don't know if you know that we finished the session at the time of John Paul's death. II. It's characteristic. 21.37. [[Adjournment at 21 minutes 37]]
