ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u1	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Education, Science and Youth - hour 9.30 a.m., - Infrastructure - hour 9.30 a.m., - Culture and Media - hour 10, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 11, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 11, - Infrastructure - immediately after the end of the meeting convened at 3 p.m. 9.30, i.e. approx. hour 11.30, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 12, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 12, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 13, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 16. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u2	Thank you. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the government draft Foreign Service Act, print No 904. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has asked me to make this point the second point to be considered today, because the committee, due to this failure yesterday, has concluded its work late. In view of the need to prepare and introduce the report to Members - that is this print No 904 - I have decided that this will be the second item on today's agenda. With a formal proposal from Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Confederation. One minute, sir. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u3	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to make a formal proposal to change the way in which voting is conducted so that as soon as possible we can deal with the project that the Confederation presented, the project for the release of the economy, the project to stop the restrictions on pandemics, so that people from specific industries, especially the tourism, sports, entertainment and catering sectors, can return to work and earn a decent living. These people aren't waiting for help from the government, these people are waiting for them to respect their civil rights, so they can just rebuild their income, their turnover. The bill prepared by the Confederate lawyers undos the negative effects of government policy. We ask that you bring this law into session as soon as possible, pass the vote, and withdraw from these unintelligible restrictions that destroy people's lives. I urge you to do so as soon as possible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u4	Mr President, you know very well that I cannot put this proposal to the vote. This project does not exist, there is no analysis of this project and at the moment we are not at the vote point, Mr President. Therefore, this formal conclusion is unfounded at the moment. We call for urgent analysis. Yeah, well, then you know it wasn't a formal conclusion. You just wanted to say it. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Law on Government Administration Departments and some other laws (Print No. 897). Now I ask Minister Siemianowski to present the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u5	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the government a bill amending the law on government departments and certain other laws. The proposed law amends the Law of 4 September 1997 on the departments of government administration and subsequent amendments to the provisions of several dozen other laws. The proposed provisions aim to align the structure of the government administration with the new reconstructed structure of the Council of Ministers, which responds to the challenges posed by the pandemic of Coronavirus. These changes aim to increase the efficiency of government administration. Consolidating the decision-making process for a smaller number of members of the Council of Ministers requires adjustments to optimise government departments, while analysing the specific tasks of government administration indicates the need for reorganisation within government departments. For this reason, the Act proposes to separate three new branches of government administration. These departments include geology, forestry and hunting and the administrative center of the government. The consequence of these changes is the need to define the scope of issues covered by the new departments of government administration. It should be emphasized... [[Game in the O.R.]] I'm sorry. May I ask Members to silence the conversation? Because you really can't hear what the Minister says. Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Rafał Siemianowski: Thank you. It should be stressed that the change in the separation of new branches of government administration will enable them to be flexibly assigned to the authority of a specific minister depending on the current needs of the State. In addition, the project also proposes amendments to cases assigned to several other departments of government administration. With regard to the new departments created, it should be stressed that issues relating to the field of geology are characterised by complexity and interdisciplinaryity, and therefore it is necessary to create from the previous task a geology which is currently in the administration department an environment of a new, separate department of government administration. The designer's intention is that the geology department should address extremely important issues affecting the rational management of fossil raw materials, including in particular ensuring the state's raw material security in the field of fossil raw materials. The environmental department will also distinguish a new department of government administration, forestry and hunting. The consequence of the separation of the forestry and hunting division is the need to make changes primarily in the Forest Law, in the Law on Hunting Law and in the Law on Forest propagating material. In addition, it is necessary to make adjustments to other laws in which matters which are already under the responsibility of the Minister for the Environment are governed and their nature relates to matters covered by the new forestry and hunting department. The new administrative department - the administrative centre of the government - will cover issues such as: defining strategic directions for state development and assessing the functionality of its structures. In addition, this section will address the issues of analyses, forecasts and assessments of the socio-economic impact of the proposed regulations, staff policy in the government administration and information policy of the Council of Ministers and the President of the Council of Ministers. With regard to the changes proposed in the government administration department: the economy is envisaged to complement the case catalogue assigned to this department on modern technology cases. The consequence of this change is the change of the competent authority in the field of activities of the Łukasiewicz Centre, institutes operating within the Łukasiewicz Research Network and the National Centre for Research and Development from the Minister responsible for Higher Education and Science to the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs. These actors play an important role in the process of taking actions that promote the growth of the innovation of the Polish economy using modern technologies, in particular in promoting the commercialisation of research and development results and other forms of their transfer to the economy. The proposed concept will ensure consistency in the use of modern technologies in the economy. It is also worth emphasising the introduction into the heading: the climate of shaping and pursuing policies for a climate neutral economy due to the ever increasing political, economic and social importance of the issue of climate neutrality. The bill submitted to the High House also proposes amendments to the Council of Ministers Act. They are linked, among others. supplementing the tasks of the Legislative Board and transferring its services from the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers to the Government Legislative Centre. In addition, the Act on the Council of Ministers will establish a Government Centre for Analysis. The remaining minor changes are discussed in the explanatory memorandum of the bill. Thanking you for your attention, I would like to express my hope that the proposals put forward will meet with the approval of the High House, as reflected in the adoption of the Act amending the Law on the Departments of Government Administration and some other laws. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u6	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mr Zdzisław Sipiera, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u7	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The law, the Government's submission concerning the departments of public administration and other laws which are consequently amended is the response and the need to adapt the administrative structure of the government to the new reconstructed structure of the Council of Ministers, which is among others. a response to SARS CoV-2 issues. Increasing the efficiency of the government is a necessity in times in which these difficulties build up. So that we hope that when it comes to this efficiency through the actions and changes proposed by this law, it will function. It is also necessary to consolidate the management process involving fewer members of the Council of Ministers to submit this law. It is also about the proper use of official staff, more flexible, tailored to the needs of the Prime Minister's law firm, the government. The Act on the Departments of Public Administration, this submission introduces three new, very important for the functioning of the Polish state departments: geology, with a great, whole reserve of resources of the Polish state; forestry and hunting, including a large forest farm, which will be supervised by this separate department; as well as a new proposal, very interesting, i.e. the administrative centre of the government, including the Government Centre for Analysis. These days require such in-depth analyses and this proposal is an absolutely interesting proposal that can bring tangible benefits to the government, it is simply about better and faster decisions. As a result of the submission to departments, the law on departments needs to be amended many laws. It is a law on construction, spatial planning, housing, economy, water management, mining, climate, tourism and the environment. The Prime Minister will have the opportunity to define through these statutory changes organisations in the NAP, which will be very concrete, due to the needs of the moment, and not just the need for legal changes. And this, as I said, will make the decision process much easier and faster. The government submission also moves subscription fees by transferring supervision to the National Radio and Television Council. The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is in favour of further proceeding on the submission of government and will support this law in further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u8	Thank you, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will address Mr Konrad Frysztak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u9	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! To begin with, we should explain to Poles what this collection of 80 pages of paper is. It's nothing more than a division of spoils. This political division takes place, of course, in a flash of flash, during the reconstruction of the government. It was said that the number of ministries would be reduced, and in fact this number of ministers remained unchanged. This is the continuation of this political distribution of spoils. To put it simply, Minister Ziobro made a deal with President Duda and said he didn't have enough. You didn't consult that, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! On this law in a similar form, I will remind you, the 18th of November has already been conducted. At that time, Minister Dworczyk wanted to work until hours. 4:00 in the morning. Then you had to do it quickly, you had to do it on your knees, even though all the opposition clubs and the wheel said it was a rubble. This rubble, ladies and gentlemen, we rejected you at the committee meeting and said that you could not transfer the Ministry of Sport to the company, to the National Sports Centre, we said that in times of crisis you should not transfer undersecretaries of state to the civilian service corps and give them 10,000 each. zł raises. It wasn't the time, and it's not the time. I'm glad you guys pulled out of this, and I'm glad you got that because we talked about it. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, there are still some errors in this bill, and there are a lot of errors here. There are a lot of things here that don't reflect how you should work. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that there is a new provision here. And above all on the front page, I haven't mentioned it yet, it says that Minister Dworczyk is recommended to represent the government's position. Where's the minister? I can't see. Minister Dworczyk, who also at the meeting of this committee fought like a lion for this bill to be converted as soon as possible, was nervous, sweating. In this bill he was given further competence. He will no longer be responsible for vaccination, he will not be responsible for the organisation of hospitals, he will also be responsible, ladies and gentlemen, for the administration of KPRM. To put it bluntly, as the media reports, he's gonna be the boss. As chief, he's going to split the cash, as chief, and he's going to be responsible for the analysis of the KPRM structure. All this causes me to have far-reaching doubts as to whether this law will improve the functioning of the Polish state. The Polish government certainly didn't. Ladies and gentlemen! As I have already mentioned, President Duda and Minister Ziobra have agreed that something needs to be picked up for them. To put it simply, forests, forests and hunting - you wanted to take Solidarna Polska and in fact that's why this bill came back here. She came back because you forgot to discuss something. That's why. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, it's a rubble, a rubble that is not suitable for further proceding. Therefore, as a Club of the Civic Coalition - Greens, Moderns, Civic Platform and the Polish Initiative, your Marshal, we apply to reject this at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u10	Thank you, sir. On behalf of the parliamentary club, Mrs Monika Pawłowska will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u11	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It is important for all of you to know at the very beginning that the bill was passed on Tuesday. We Members have had it for less than two days - without public consultation, without consulting NGOs, without consulting the Office of Sejm Analysis. The legislative process in Poland is probably the fastest in the world, the fastest and at the same time the worst. Law and Justice by such laws as this one makes Poles completely lose confidence in the quality of Polish legislation. A similar law on government departments was already in place. We worked on it both in the Sejm and in the committee. Once again, we're doing a failed replay of entertainment. Once again, you're showing us what you can do. You can only afford to do your party business. By the way, I don't know if anyone else is falling for that mask called taking care of national interests. The right-wing conducts internal wars instead of fighting a pandemic. How many months has the government been reconstructed? How long are you gonna fight about who's gonna have woods and who's gonna have companies? Prime Minister! Will the president like the bill this time? People die in numbers unknown in times of peace, lose their jobs, close companies, and you can't figure out which limousine to drive to? We as the Left appeal again: take care of your tasks professionally, and you do not practice cheap PR. Stop telling people the government's gonna be smaller and the administration's gonna be weightless. It's not true, your governments are an endless story called coalition agreement and government reconstruction. You've shown everyone that in your case, unfortunately, party business always prevails. In his exposé in 2019 Prime Minister Morawiecki said: The government is a tool for citizens to build their country. This tool must be efficient, so we will make a fundamental review of state institutions, reconstruction of bureaucracy, administration and thus save at least a few billion zlotys. So how many billions will be saved by Prime Minister Morawiecki e.g. Thanks to this bill, thanks to the Legislative Council? How many ministries, State Secretarys and Undersecretaries of State have decreased? The answer to such a question is always worth hearing. I hope it falls down here from the Parliamentary Speaker, Minister - as if you were the Minister, of course. If not, I'll have a written reply. As a Left, we will vote against this bill. We will vote against the bill, bearing in mind that it is completely devoid of meaning, order and composition. Once again, we will lean over government departments because President Andrzej Duda has rebelled against his party. Well, we're not gonna be in your games. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u12	Thank you, Member. On behalf of the Coalition Polska Club, Mrs Urszula Nowogórska. You're welcome. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u13	Good morning, Marshal. I hope you can hear me. Good morning. Yeah, I can hear you. There you go. Good morning, Marshal. Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of my club Coalition Poland - PSL - Union of European Democrats - Conservatives to present a position towards the government draft law amending the law on government departments and some other laws contained in Seym Print No. 897. On Tuesday, the Council of Ministers adopted a draft amendment to the Law amending the Law on Government Departments and certain other laws. Such a legislative formula appeared as a result of the original law that had been vetoed by President Duda in the Seym on 18 November 2020. At the moment we are dealing with a limited version, in which among others. there is no provision concerning the transfer of the Undersecretary of State to the Civil Service Corps, and therefore there will be no increases which were originally provided for in the previous Act, there will be no national centre of sport and doubts raised the validity of separation in the government administration department: the environment of the new department: forestry and hunting, which in the original law was assigned to the Ministry of Agriculture. The project in the current version also assumes the separation of several departments. As I have already mentioned: geology, forestry and hunting and the administrative center of the government. This is the result of a recent reconstruction of the government and a reduction in the number of ministries from 20 to 14, of course in order to increase efficiency while reducing the costs of government administration. In addition, the bill provides for changes in different departments, among others. in construction, planning and land-use, housing, economy, water management, deposit and mineral management, in climate, physical culture, tourism and the environment. So, as you can see, there are a lot of changes. There will also be a new branch: the administrative centre of the government, which includes defining strategic directions for state development, carrying out assessments of the activities and functionality of its structures, carrying out analyses and assessments of the socio-economic impact of the proposed regulations, and coordinating the government administration in the field of operation of the Council of Ministers, Prime Minister and HR policy in the government administration. In addition, the administrative centre of the government is to coordinate activities related to government cooperation - Prime Minister - President - Sejm, Senate and other state bodies defined in this section. It is also intended to deal with defence, state security, information policy of the Council of Ministers and the Prime Minister, substantive support, organisational and legal, technical and chancellery-office of the Council of Ministers, President of the Council of Ministers and Deputy Prime Ministers. The bill is extensive, contained on 80 pages, and involves changes in a number of other laws, as also mentioned by my previous speakers. There will be an uprising, among others. department: Geology alongside the administration department environment, which is to include proper management of fossil raw materials, ensuring state security in this area, research, qualifications, functioning of the geological service. This includes the removal of hydrological services and the location of the main geologist of the country, as well as the issue of concessions related to this area. Another amendment, which was also mentioned by my previous speakers, concerns the Act on the Council of Ministers on the possibility of creating an ancillary body for the Council of Ministers or the President of the Council of Ministers. The Legislative Council referred to here is to fulfil the task of coordinating legislative work. This law also mentions that various experts from different fields may be invited to cooperate. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! To sum up, because of everything I have said, and after listening to my previous speakers, I wanted to say that there are still a lot of ambiguities and doubts in this bill, which will certainly be explained in the further legislative process, I hope, in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. That's why my group, my club, will be very attentive to the future of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u14	Thank you, Member, thank you. Please, on behalf of the Confederate circle, Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke. Please. I understand that the speech is divided with Mr. Krzysztof Bosak, so please watch your time. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u15	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We're watching new attempts to repair the system every now and then. These attempts are going towards a rip-off, an intra-party game under the influence of a lack of money, under the influence of the COVID. You get different patches, the system is so patched that it can't work. As a result, we call on both sides to have a serious discussion on changes to the Constitution which would prevent such action from taking place on a cross-party basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u16	Thank you. Please, Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u17	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! We all know that the law on government departments with a justification of up to 100 s. has entered the Sejm because the previous law on similar content was vetoed by the President. It was vetoed because it was not well understood even within the governing camp and the presidential camp, as shown by some chaos in the organization of government administration. It is also worth noting the falsehood already contained in the second sentence of the statement of reasons. Let me read this sentence: The proposed provisions aim at adapting the structure of government administration to the new, reconstructed structure of the Council of Ministers, which responds to the challenges posed by SARS-CoV-2. We know that's not true. The change in the structure of the government is directly due to the arrangements within the governing coalition, you need to adapt the structure of the government to what you agreed between the parties that co-created the governing camp. That's the truth, and there's no shame in writing that to justify it. Why lie here that SARS-COV-2? After all, if it were to prevent an epidemic or to improve the state of health, you would have done so long ago and not waited for the results of the intra-coaling arrangements and then for the President's veto or the President's signature. So that the obvious lie included in the second sentence of the justification of the law. I think that putting such small lies in the justification of the bill, while it is known that what you will write into this justification is of no importance, because everyone in the House is well aware of what is going on, shows a political culture of this government and this ruling camp. It is a culture simply based on a lie, it is a culture based on non-transparency. I think it is worth to say on this occasion that Poles deserve not such a government, but a government that acts transparently, on a government that honestly shows who is responsible for what, a government that does not obscure false substantive pretexts or some justifications of political issues. The fact that you've made a political division of competence in the ruling camp is normal. Unlike the so-called representatives. I'm not gonna say this is crazy. That's what democracy is all about, and you share the zones of influence with each other. The Members who came before me called it looting - maybe looting, maybe zones of influence - there is nothing embarrassing about it. There's nothing embarrassing about the fact that you've presented issues related to the remuneration of the Vice-Ministers. But why didn't you do it right and in good times? Attempting to raise government members in times of crisis is a bad time, it should not be done. [[Applause]] At a time when there was a good economic situation, when there was no crisis, when the wages of Poles grew, when we had a good growth of gross domestic product, you presented a legal bubel, which was ultimately rejected, because you could not keep your moderation and you had to add increases for Members, various additional things instead of focusing on what was important, i.e. on the fact that people who should have the highest powers in our country and be vice-ministers who are responsible for specific substantive areas of government and change their decisions, wise or stupid, the lives of more than 30 million citizens, are simply earning little money in relation to responsibility. You couldn't write it properly, today you pay the price. The thing that I also don't like about this law, and I think everyone here has already pointed out: How can we propose to remove forestry and hunting from the Ministry of the Environment and transfer them to the Ministry of Agriculture? Is it true that Minister Puda, who, as we well know, became Minister of Agriculture by chance as a result of a conflict around the five against farmers, from whom you withdrew after a great social pressure, or is he really still responsible for forest-related issues, hunting? Why? What is his competence in this regard? The administration center of the government. It's good to strengthen them, but where's the vision? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Strategic Analysis Center. Where's the strategy? You can't see her. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u18	Mr President, finish up. Thank you, sir. We've finished our club appearances. Members have come forward to ask questions. I'm setting the question time for one minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Tomasz Nowak, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u19	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have a problem with this bill, not only because it is a reactivation of a project rejected by President Duda, but also because some ministers are empowered. I'm talking about the climate minister. After all, at the moment Poland signed up to a 55% reduction in emissions in 2030 and an energy transformation that will take place across the whole economy. Meanwhile, the Minister of Climate is inbreeding, for himself. I believe that if such an important strategic task is being carried out, it should at least be in the rank of... At least... He could be in the rank of Deputy Prime Minister. How will he manage from the position of minister equal to other ministers a transformation that will go through other ministries? We had already experienced this in that term when there was a Minister of Energy and a Minister of Climate (Dawn) and there were tensions between them all the time and there was no constructive establishment of a position.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u20	Thank you, sir. Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u21	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! After the President's decision, the government withdrew from setting up the National Sports Centre. Good. During the pandemic period, the creation of a new office is a waste of time, unnecessary financial resources thrown away. At the moment there will be a connection between two ministries: the Ministry of Sport and the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. However, at the start, it can be seen that this draft law on the amendment of the law on the departments of government is taken up with the powers of the Minister of Sport combined with the Ministry of Culture, among others. by taking over the management of the National Stadium. The National Stadium was entirely built and prepared as an investment of the State Treasury led by the Minister of Sport. At the moment this stadium, but also in power on behalf of the State Treasury, takes over the Minister of State Assets. I think it's about another synecurary in the form of a special purpose vehicle. I would therefore like to ask: How will the Ministry of Culture, National Heritage and Sport affect the functioning of the National Stadium? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u22	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Poland. There's no envoy. Therefore, Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u23	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! I just wanted to say that when I read the reasons for this bill, it was so empathetic. I was thinking that someone who wrote this must have taken an old Polish exam and probably wrote it for a five or a six. So many beautiful words to justify the bill, which we know is what it is all about. This was already said in front of me by Krzysztof Bosak, who said exactly, a dot-to-dot is about your inner-party arrangement, inside your so-called. A so-called United States of America. Right hand. However, I wanted to ask you very specifically, because you have already resigned from the National Sports Centre, very well, but there are other issues. The so-called restructuring, which took place for months, eventually ended with nothing. Former ministers are e.g. current vice-ministers. In fact, not a lot of people, if anybody's got a hair on their head. And I wanted to ask how you are doing with the reduction of the administrative apparatus of the Polish state. How much will you take out? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thanks to this job bill that officials are wasting? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u24	Thank you, sir. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, non-attached Member. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u25	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! When I asked the Prime Minister in September how much this reconstruction of the government will cost us, through which we have been bothered twice by the Law on guns here, Minister Wenderlich wrote back to me that it is not possible to indicate the costs of reorganisation, because the priority of the central administration in the current situation is the fight against the coronavirus. It is not possible to indicate the cost of reconstruction, so why are you telling us that this reconstruction is going to save us anything, that it is going to have a positive financial impact if you haven't just counted its costs before? That's the first question. Second question. However, if you are releasing forests and hunting, I would like to hear in this Chamber where they will be. Is it going to be some other minister, or is it the environment, or are the forests a sack of potatoes and managed by the minister responsible for agriculture? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u26	Thank you, Member. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u27	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a very specific question. In view of the fact that the justification of the project is mainly based on the grounds of the effectiveness of the fight against the Cortipinus epidemic, I have a question: Which of these solutions - I ask for at least two or three examples - has an impact on improving the health system, improving the health inspection work and other actions that are intended to enable a more effective, faster fight against the coronavirus in our country in the health system? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u28	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u29	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I also wanted to ask you what protection against COVID has to do with this reorganisation. I understand that this is a matter of agreement with the President and that you are actually changing the jobs of officials so that they can be paid higher salaries. Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to ask - I am addressing the government - whether this version is final, is agreed with the President. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u30	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u31	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As we can see, the opposition is interested in amending the law on government departments. There are two Members on the benches of the United Right. Ladies and gentlemen! But not about this. The bill itself is an act that could be compared to dragging a rope on which a sack hangs with a sphere of influence in the ruling camp. I have a question: How many ministers and undersecretaries of state are there at this moment in the various ministries? How many will there be after the change? We know very well that the opposition has a minority in the Sejm and the power camp will probably vote for its changes. Thank you, and I ask for a written reply. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u32	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask Mr Michael Grammar, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u33	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'll start with two quotes. The first is from the submission: The Minister shall carry out his duties with the help of the Secretaries and Undersecretaries of State, the Minister's political office and the Director-General of the Office. And the second one, which you should know well, is that political offices operating in different places of public administration must be immediately eliminated as a manifestation of state stubbornness. Please respond in writing to the question: How many members of political offices are currently held in ministries and how many advisers? Mr Krzysztof Piątkowski's interpellation shows that your nominates employed in political offices are doing great. Second question: Is anyone else serious - one of you - is taking your election program seriously? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u34	Thank you. The question will be asked by Janusz Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u35	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The absent Prime Minister! If the reasons for this law were to be a test whether we read draft laws, then I would like to inform you that we are reading. Justifications for the laws of 19 November and 17 January this year. They're exactly the same. Therefore, I would like to ask: What is this about? If the Minister doesn't believe me, I'll give it to the Minister in a moment. Second thing. Something's changed. The President has sent a motion in writing to the High Sejm. I'm a little surprised your marshal didn't hand over the letter of the President, which was sent to us, is addressed: the Parliament of the Republic of Poland, for our information. In this letter we read: During the parliamentary work on this law, the arguments for the proposed amendment were not sufficiently substantiated. For these reasons, this issue - the forestry issue (the bell) - should be subject to a renewed broad debate during which all stakeholders will present their views. I ask on behalf of the President, whose spokesperson I am not: How should we understand the broad debate... Mr President, finish up. And who was this project addressed to? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u36	Thank you very much, sir. You've been through a lot of time. Thank you, sir. I would ask you to ask Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u37	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, the draft law on administrative departments is nothing more than legal sanctioning the distribution of political spoils made within the United Right. This is another time when the law will spoil further elements of the state. This has been the case so far - if the Law and Justice presented a law on administrative departments, then something was broken again as a result of its adoption. Then it had to be fixed, which didn't always work. However, this law is, I would say, the achievement of the Law and Justice. You and the government talk about savings all the time. This is the first time in the world when three new departments are isolated and this is supposed to bring savings. This is some kind of perpetuum mobile. Congratulations. This bill is also an act that sets up the premiere. So that's all we know that Prime Minister Morawiecki is a painted prime minister, this bill sanctiones. The Prime Minister of Dworczyk will rise. I have a question about the department: the economy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The economy is collapsing, entrepreneurs need help. When are you guys gonna start doing what's right? When will the economy start dealing with the economy and helping entrepreneurs? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u38	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask Mr Konrad Frysztak from the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u39	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am addressing representatives of the government because, as the media report, the boss is probably busy in Wałbrzych. Gentlemen! What is the purpose of giving such broad prerogatives to the Prime Minister so that, once the epidemic has ceased, he can move his employees and specific departments to the civil service corps himself? This also increases the salaries of these KPRM employees. I have a question: do you gentlemen plan to make this recipe... for example. All Undersecretaries of State in KPRM pack into one department and raise their wages with one move? I think it's outrageous. We cannot leave such broad prerogatives to the Prime Minister as a Polish parliament. This is what I was talking about, or rather I tried to speak as rapporteur for the committee in November, because your marshal prevented me from speaking at the time. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u40	(PL) Mr President, Mr President, You know perfectly well you haven't been reporting. You've had a very flaming speech, but that's all behind us. I ask Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition, to ask a question. Are you an MP? There's no envoy. I therefore invite Mrs Krystyna Skowronska, the Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u41	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to say first that your marshal is wrong. Mr Frysztak did not go beyond the role and task of the rapporteur of the committee. Member, please do not comment on this. Please, ma'am. I'd ask you to be an objective teacher if you remember your way of life. What are the failures that govern the adoption of laws? Words, I quote: 'It is necessary to cancel this vote because we will lose, the famous feedback or the lack of the President's signature under the Act on a 100% supplement for health workers associated with COVID, the Act on guns - failure, veto of the President, the famous distribution of spoils. Forests - Who's Forests? Who's Forests? What's that gonna change for an ordinary citizen? Nothing. For entrepreneurs? Nothing. You take care of yourselves, and this is the biggest mistake of the rulers. You don't see any other problems, you don't propose anything better. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or cheaper. Taking care of yourself is a failure. And in this House, you do it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u42	Thank you very much. I didn't hear any questions. The last question will be... It was. Forests - Who Are the Forests? The last question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u43	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a bill that shows how not to proceed in the Sejm, because this project was already considered in November. We said at the time that it was not a good project. You pushed very hard, until 4:00 a.m., to get the opinion of the committee responsible. I will always stress this once again, ladies and gentlemen: if we make law on our knees at the last minute, it will never be a good law. And let's not kid ourselves, this project would have passed if it hadn't been for the government's conflict with the president, and in fact, it's about the distribution of the spoils and the influences in the government. I think it's a good thing that we're going back to this project again, because the fact that there are hidden increases is not a good solution at that time. And the most important thing is, okay. [[♪ The bell ♪]] it would be if we devoted this time to a real fight and assistance for Polish entrepreneurs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u44	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Rafał Siemianowski will now speak at the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u45	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I will try to address the issues you have raised. As far as fundamentals are concerned, what is the purpose of the Act, this is primarily about improving the functioning of the State. And from this, even the argument can be made for a better fight against pandemics. This law does not prejudice how many ministers, vice-ministers, nor does it determine who is, who will be, who will not be, and who will not be vice-president. These are things that aren't, of course... The prime minister. ...covered by the Government Departments Act. I also wanted to stress once again that the creation of new departments does not prejudge the one to which a member of the Council of Ministers will be assigned, as the assignment of the departments takes place in the so-called. an attribution regulation issued by the President of the Council of Ministers. Therefore, sometimes the Law on Departments is compared with certain puzzles which are used to compose the structure of the Council of Ministers according to the specific, current needs of the State. As regards the climate issue and the Minister for Climate Affairs, I would just like to clarify that now the Minister for Climate and Environment has allocated energy and climate divisions. With regard to economic affairs, under this law, the economy has been assigned to modern technologies, which has its practical expression in the fact that supervision of the Łukasiewicz Research Network and the National Centre for Research and Development is transferred to the competence of the minister responsible for economic affairs. I think you will agree that the closer connection between modern technologies and their transfer to the economy and the concentration of this in the hands of one minister is a solution for economic development. About the question... Of course, as a representative of the Council of Ministers, I am not authorized to answer these questions on behalf of the President. As regards all issues, especially those of statistics that have been raised as regards the number of secretaries and Undersecretaries of State or the number of members of political offices, the appropriate responses will, of course, be given in writing. Thank you very much. I've got a reason for that. Thank you, thank you very much. Undersecretary of State in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Rafał Siemianowski: Excuse me, Your Marshal, as far as justification is concerned, yes, I will be right back, because I have received the first page of the justification from you. Indeed, the first page is the same, while the next one is different, because of course these projects are different, and in this respect the justification is also different, but not entirely different, because many solutions are repeated. So that the first page is actually the same, there are differences on the next page. This is the second time you're gonna print...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u46	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The discussion requested that the draft law be rejected at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the Foreign Affairs Committee's report on the Government's draft Foreign Service Act (Prints No. 877 and 904). I ask Mr Radosław Fogel to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u47	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Dear Members, I am pleased to present the report of the Foreign Affairs Committee on the Government's draft Foreign Service Act 877. The Sejm sent the above draft law to the Foreign Affairs Committee for consideration at its meeting yesterday. The Commission had a discussion on the draft during which the amendments were tabled. Here I would first of all like to thank the employees of the Sejm Chancellery, because we finished work around 1:00 a.m. and they were still working on it. So thank you very much for this work. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, after considering the draft law at its meeting on 20 January, asks the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u48	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Radosław Fogiel, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u49	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The main principles of the Foreign Service Act were presented yesterday by Minister Rau. They were mentioned during the discussion. They don't change. This is a question of adapting Polish diplomacy and Polish foreign service to modern conditions, to the challenges that today's reality poses to Polish diplomacy. That's one thing, the most important thing in this bill. The second is opening up foreign services, opening up to new staff, some hermeticisation of what is happening today, which is not always serving the functioning of foreign services, letting new people, with fresh eyes, both young people, immediately after college, who will have the opportunity to take up probationary work to join foreign service later, and facilitating the possibility of joining diplomatic service to people who have experience in other areas of life: economic, scientific, academic. This is all a very important part of this project. The changes also concern the role of ambassadors. We clearly state that this is a position that implements government policy, so in addition to the restrictions on diplomatic service, civil service ceases to be the crowning of official career at the same time. We're introducing the position of the Plenipotentiary Minister in exchange for this. Several amendments were tabled during the committee's work, if not several dozens of amendments. The more important ones are the amendments concerning e.g. implementing the constitutional principle of cooperation between the President of the Republic of Poland and the Government in the field of foreign policy. Here, for example. It is an opportunity to delegate diplomats to perform their duties in the President's Office or to introduce the position of ambassador, special representative of the President of the Republic of Poland. These were also amendments clarifying issues related to the assignment of professional degrees, adapting terminology to existing legislation, amendments which have been clarified e.g. the health protection of foreign service workers in establishments concerning taxation concerning the rules for the allocation of diplomatic passports. There is another amendment introduced by this law: the archive resource of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is transferred to the Institute of National Remembrance. It is also clarified here that the Institute of National Remembrance receives this resource at its disposal, i.e. Maybe it's him. continue to be made available for research purposes so that there is no doubt. The bill's proposal in the opinion of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice goes in the right direction. These are changes that are needed and justified. We will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u50	Thank you, sir. Mr Paweł Zalewski, the Civic Coalition, has the floor. You're welcome. I don't see a Member yet. On behalf of the Left Club, I ask for the floor of Mr Andrzej Shejna, remotely. Do we have a link to your envoy? Then we will ask Mr Władysław Teofil Bartoszewski, the Coalition of Poland, for a club speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u51	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I think it's about the shifts and everything got mixed up. Yeah, but everyone's been informed, so I hope they can make it. I hope they'll make it. I barely flew either because I had a club meeting, but of course I was watching a meeting on the screen. So I flew back. Hello, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen! This bill was bad yesterday and it's bad today. That hasn't changed, Minister, unfortunately. Because, on the one hand, this is an extreme politicisation of foreign service. I told you yesterday that, yes, there is a certain percentage of ambassadors in a country like the United States who are politically appointed by the President, and most of them are professional diplomats. This is the crowning of a diplomatic career in any normal country. The ambassador is the highest rank. We of our diplomatic staff will call the Plenipotentiary Ministers, which places them at a lower level, and they will talk to their fellow ambassadors from a much worse position. What is more, of course, I support the promotion and recruitment of young, capable people for foreign service, but foreign service has this to do with itself that it is a collection of knowledge that has been gathering for decades. When I talk, for example. with diplomats of the People's Republic of China... There are diplomats also in Poland who have been taking care of Poland for 20 years. This is a certain knowledge that is not acquired in a year, not acquired in two years. We reported, the opposition reported, including me, various amendments yesterday at the committee meeting. Of course, all the amendments tabled by the government party were accepted and no amendment tabled by us was accepted and there will be problems. One of the problems mentioned by the government's legislative office is the introduction of forced departure from service in the year after the age of 65. It's gonna be a legal problem. The legislative office was very clear about this. But you're digging your own grave here. People over the age of 65 - Minister, we to them, so to speak, belong - do not end their careers. My father became an ambassador when he was 68 years old and finished working at the age of 93, and in a rather difficult situation after he had been obliged to hold a bilateral meeting between the Polish Prime Minister and the German Chancellor. Well, that's... In no country, except e.g. America, there is no such politicisation of diplomacy in any European country. And that leads to that. I understand - I was talking about this yesterday - that there is a personal and organizational problem here and that this is a good solution to solve this problem. I appreciate it. And that's how you pour a baby with a bath, and that's... Polish diplomatic environments are definitely against it, the civil service is against it. This is an experiment for which we will pay dearly. This reminds me of the cultural revolution: plow, destroy and build again. I understand that this had to be done in 1990 - not to receive communist services en gros - but we are not in the same situation. Experience, knowledge, and achievements of the past 30 years should not be developed simply because there have been some personal problems in foreign service. Therefore, I ask you, High Izbo, to appeal to the government for reason, not to completely destroy our diplomatic service, because that will be the result. This service has been built for decades, and it is destroyed by one law. So we maintain our opposition to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u52	Thank you, sir. We will try to connect remotely with Mr Andrzej Shejna from the Left Club. Oh, yes, you're an MP. You're welcome. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u53	Yes, I am, thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At the outset, I would like to point out that the way in which this project is dealt with is scandalous and can be compared directly to your pseudo-reform of the judiciary and unlawful action against Supreme Court judges. Natural, but not for the Law and Justice, it seems to develop a draft law on foreign service by means of in-depth public consultations, among others. with social organisations bringing together members of the civil service and foreign service corps, with the scientific community and with other civil service and foreign service stakeholders who know the needs and gaps of the current legislation. However, my request to be heard publicly at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs did not find any recognition, it was not even put to the vote. In addition, a number of comments from the Legislative Bureau were not taken into account. The Legislative Office has made it clear that it is not able to express itself binding on such a rapid night process. The changes should, after all, create confidence and include mechanisms to ensure transparency in their implementation. On the other hand, the government once again gave us the project process in an accelerated form, at night, so that no one would happen to realize that the again announced bang-up reform is In fact, the politicization of foreign service. Tonight, thanks to the majority in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, you have tried on the legislative razor that you will cut out the most experienced, but not favorable, diplomats' powers, making room for their party keys. So simply say that you will appoint ambassadors of Law and Justice, not ambassadors of the Republic of Poland, who, instead of conducting a reliable diplomacy, will be spokespersons of power. You also hope that in three years' time, in the case of lost elections, you will continue to control Polish diplomacy for at least another year until President Andrzej Duda resigns from office. You're suggesting that a professional diplomat can't be guided by his own interests, but by the interests of the state. It's obvious. The statements that members of the foreign service will not be able to participate in strikes or protest actions that would interfere with the functioning of the office will not be able to belong to political parties, will not be able to act as trade unions, remind you of the actions that Minister Ziobro has been taking for a long time before independent judicial authorities, in order to close their mouths to independent judges. Today, for this reason, Poland has been on the brink of criticism and proceedings for human rights violations, treaties or the Charter of Fundamental Rights before the TSEU or the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. In the proposed changes I do not see the right understanding for one of the most important trends in international structures for three decades, namely the economicisation of foreign policy and consequently the reorientation of foreign service priorities. The distinction between what is political and economic is fading. Similarly, many of the issues that had an internal policy dimension have become international. Diplomacy is therefore becoming a regulator when it comes to the economies of countries, actively engaging in the promotion of even developed geoeconomic space of a given country and economy. This thinking of the creators of the proposed law is still foreign, which means misunderstanding of new methods of building power in international relations. This project, according to the government's justification, is intended to lay the foundations for the future foreign service. It is all the more surprising that the language requirements for candidates for a diplomatic and consulative application are reduced and that the required level of foreign language skills is not specified, which may result in quality reductions for foreign service staff. Moreover, there is a lack of reference in Chapter 5 to graduates of the National School of Public Administration and the lack of possibility of their employment without the obligation to perform a diplomatic/consular application. KSAP has almost 30 years of experience in training candidates for public service based on best European practices. The explanatory memorandum also stresses that the project is intended to increase transparency. At the same time, it follows from the provisions that the meetings of the Convention on the Foreign Service created to assess candidates to take up the role of ambassador in the host country or ambassador to an international organisation are to be classified and that the Protocol is to be classified within the meaning of Article. 2 point 3 of the Act of 5 August 2010 on the protection of classified information. It is in the public interest to maintain the basic standards of transparency and transparency of the process of filling public functions. This standard should be respected, in particular as regards the selection of a candidate as a representative of the Republic of Poland abroad. There is no justification for the secrecy of the Convention protocols and its opinions on candidates. The Convention, on the other hand, consists of the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs, the Head of Foreign Service, the representative of the President of the Republic of Poland and the representative of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. Honestly, only the current government can claim that it is depoliticizing foreign service and entrusting a completely political evaluation body for ambassadors. After all, it is clear that real competences cease to count completely, and that the position of ambassador will be given to the party nominate. The criteria associated with the position (the bell) of the Head of Foreign Service appear to be relatively low in the light of the role and tasks to be performed by the person in the above position are also questionable. The head of foreign service should be characterized by outstanding material preparation... Mr President, finish up. ...experience, diplomacy and merit for the state. In conclusion, the Left Club voted against the project at first reading and will consistently vote against again. I also want to emphasize...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u54	Thank you, sir. Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will address Mr Paweł Zalewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u55	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! After the Constitutional Court, after the Supreme Court, after the general courts, after the public television, after the civil service, after the prosecutor's office - and here we can exchange - it is the turn for the Foreign Ministry, for the foreign service. Today we continue to discuss the draft law on foreign service - that is his name, but he is not about foreign service. He's about the new staff of the United Right in diplomacy, nothing more. Don't be delusional. This project is not about strengthening Polish diplomacy, it is not about strengthening Polish force abroad. This project is not about removing the errors that took place in the 2001 Act, it is not about correcting errors that took place in practice in the Third Republic. No, it's not about that. It's about the new staff, the new PiS elite. That's the system. This is a system, which is that new channels, new roads, need to be refreshed all the time. For people who come to this system, channels in companies of the Treasury, in many different offices, wherever the state still has power, have already been filled with ladies, masters, councillors, PiS activists, cousins, sweats - nepotism is the standard of the state of government. Because that's what this is about. It's not about the good of the nation. You have come to power, just as the Bolsheviks have come to power, speaking of the interests of the working class, but you are creating a growth in the nation, the new elite you are talking about. You're building this new elite. But this system, which really is a system that drinks what is good in a nation that robs it of vital sources of development, is what this system must develop. You must have new places to put new people. That's the point. You have seen that foreign service is a great place for this - about 100 ambassadors who will come with a party nomination. Several dozens, if not several hundred executive positions in the office. In the Ministry itself also party recruitment. And finally, a few hundred people, young people you want to convince, bribe, without any qualifications. You're going to send them to diplomatic missions to prove themselves. That's it. It's about this new elite expanding. Because that is also the logic of any undemocratic power, which is not based on respect for the nation. She needs to expand. Once the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is mastered, as all other institutions will be controlled, do not be surprised, it will be the turn for private business. It will turn out that graduates of school in Toruń should have an internship in the best Polish companies. How can this be done? Very simple. Together with a loan that you will receive from state banks - because there will be no others - you will have to hire young people for an internship or experienced managers designated by the PiS, because it will make your functioning easier. That's the nature of the system you're creating. You're robbing Poland. Today, the instrument of stealing from Poland will become the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Shame, Minister. Disgraceful. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u56	Thank you, sir. Mr Krystian Kaminski will be the last to speak on behalf of the Confederation's circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u57	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, today actually, the Foreign Affairs Committee concluded its deliberations. And you know what? From the print we had yesterday, there's hardly a single article left in this state. This was supposed to be your example project, which changes the reality that changes our diplomacy, which puts Polish foreign policy in a bright future. And you know what? Practically not a single article has been touched. The Legislative Bureau had doubts about every article, every amendment you made. Few were said to be incompatible with the Constitution with one amendment. And what did you say? We know better, we know better what's in the Constitution. That's what happened. 7 hours sitting on 70 articles. You couldn't formulate them properly. These articles are very sloppy, very sloppy is the chosen vocabulary, many things are completely inconsistent in them. I don't understand why you couldn't prepare something good. And why did we have to proceed so quickly? Why was there a first reading yesterday and today a committee report? Why couldn't it be calm about all this? Besides, the Legal Office itself said that it didn't have time to read all of this, and your amendments didn't even have time to read it. You just want to own it, and in a very fast way, the whole foreign affairs department. And really, if someone read yesterday's print, they can throw it in the trash because today's printing is completely different. Here's another thing. Amendment, in this case, to the ambassadors and to the permanent representatives of international organisations. We wanted to delete a point that says that an ambassador or a permanent representative does not have to have only Polish citizenship. We wanted to bring about what would be normal, that our ambassador was only a representative of our country. This applies, for example, to professional diplomats for which Article. 14 is just such a point that they have only Polish citizenship. And what did you say? No, we can't discriminate against other people. This is the question of what is more important, whether the interest of the Polish state or some non-discriminatory approach. Besides, you have tabled the amendment that ruled out the article. 22, who said that a member of the foreign service could not perform an obligation in a foreign institution in a country whose nationality is owned by his spouse. After all, it would be completely logical, because here the conflict of interest is quite obvious. And what did you say? In our case, it could happen. I just understood your entire argument in this regard. Besides, I say, there was no article you wouldn't correct, and it wasn't even with your hands, it was with Mr Fogel's hands, who, I'm weighing himself, just planted and tabled your amendments, because it's impossible for him to introduce 20 of his own amendments at a time, and very detailed, into a law that has 70 articles. So that it's a complete bubble, it's not gonna improve anything in our diplomacy. Not much. Now you don't know what's in it because you couldn't - and I'm quite sure you could - read it by amendment. You don't know what we're debating, none of us know what we're debating. We don't know how this is gonna end. If this is gonna be the document that's gonna fix our diplomacy, then I'm having very big doubts. And while I was moderately skeptical at first, I am no longer moderately skeptical; I am quite sure that this document will bring nothing good into our diplomacy. And if yesterday Minister Rau claimed that we were not referring in substance, it is a pity that he was not at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, where we broke this document for 7 hours. And what was the result? The answer of the self-satisfied Vice Minister and PiS Member that they know everything better. There was no argument there that something might be different. No, we know everything better. And it is not only for us, Members who have been making comments, but also for the Legislative Office. What do you know? Gentlemen, there's only law-abiding law-abiding law-abiding law-abiding law-abiding law-abiding law-abiding law-abiding We know better what's in the Constitution, what can and can't be done. This is the destruction of Polish diplomacy and it will certainly not do any good. Even if any intentions were good, they were presented so that today it is completely unacceptable. I can't imagine anyone voting for this document. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u58	Thank you. We've finished our club appearances. Let's get to the questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. Please, the question will be asked by Mr Tomasz Nowak, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u59	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The ambassador is pursuing government policy - you say, but maybe he must also save this policy. What is the wisdom of diplomacy? It comes from experience, from years of practice. A wise and experienced ambassador knows that if e.g. The President of Poland contacts, as in the case of the United States only with Donald Trump and the Republicans, this wise and experienced ambassador tries to balance this with meetings in this case with democrats. He does it, thanks to years of practice, good contacts. And what will the ambassador do after a three-year internship and appointed with a political key? He will implement government policy, even if it leads, as in the case of the European Union, to the loneliness of Poland. The Minister of Foreign Affairs implements this law to cut off Polish diplomacy. 65 years is a symbol of this. 65 years old when he tells me to leave [[♪ The bell ♪]] diplomacy when you're the most substantive ambassador. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u60	Thank you very much. Please, the question will be asked by Mr Marek Grunkle, the Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. In that case, Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition. There isn't. This is Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left. You're welcome. Excuse me, Marshal. Excuse me, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition. Yes, sir, I'm sorry. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u61	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am surprised that the Minister was not at the committee meeting yesterday, which was discussing one of the most important acts for diplomacy. It seems that this shows that the Minister, I don't know if he's identifying himself or if he's not willing to talk about this important act at all. Amazing, really. On the other hand, Minister, I would like to ask you about the article. 90. This article obliges the Minister to transfer the file to the IPN - it is about transferring the diplomats' files before 1990 to the IPN - and it de facto aligns diplomats before 1990 with those who worked in various security services. I would like to ask you what the Minister wants to say to these diplomats in this symbolic article (The Bell) by aligning them with the State Security Services. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u62	Thank you, sir. It is now that I invite Alexander Mishalski from the Civic Coalition. Please. There isn't, right? This is Mr. Jan Szopiński, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u63	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address my question to the Prime Minister of the Polish Government. If the Council of Ministers is a collegial body which takes decisions at its meetings, and this law was addressed to the Sejm on 13 January, then when was the Council of Ministers' meeting on this law to be conducted? Why do I ask? Because Minister Jarosław Gowin and Minister Konrad Szymański made comments on this matter and these comments were sent to the Prime Minister on 14 January. So when was the government discussing this bill? I think that not only I am interested, but the answers to this question, how the government works, are expected by Poles and Poles. It cannot be that Members receive the Act on 13 January and serious ministers address the Prime Minister's comments on 14 January and these comments are not considered. Thank you. One sentence, Marshal. Mr President, please stick to the time. You're way beyond him. But only one sentence. I would kindly ask the Prime Minister that we receive the Prime Minister's position for these comments made by Mr Gowin and Minister Szymański.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u64	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u65	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wonder why you don't want to create a good bill over political divisions. Minister, times are difficult in the world, they won't be easier. Today we need professional diplomats at the highest level. One thing, ladies and gentlemen, which is certain in the world today, is a change, but which way is this change going, that we don't know anymore. I will repeat this once again: The art of diplomacy is the most difficult of many other pieces. For us the interests of Poland should count, not the interests of individual political parties. Ladies and gentlemen, this is going to look like a boxing amateur we're sending to a professional boxing player. The result will be [[♪ The bell ♪]] Premeditated. Let us take care of the Polish interests of the state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u66	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u67	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, Formerly recruited civil servants are among foreign servants. Your department worked in 2019 19 and in 2016 15 people with disabilities. The Civil Service Act provides for specific employment opportunities for disabled workers. The NIK audit carried out in 2019 shows that public institutions, government institutions no longer implement these laws, but also our agreement, our United Nations Charter, to which Poland is a party. I would like to ask and ask for a written reply, how many people with disabilities and how many in diplomacy work in the civil service at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs today? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u68	Thank you. The question will be asked by Marek Rutka, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u69	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A government bill on foreign service is a project that should be called political vacation+. In the light of the new regulations, the role of ambassador appears as a carefree holiday for the faithful line of party activist with the competence of at most appropriate events to the leader of the district range. Minister Fogiel said that the bill is hermeticising foreign services. Contact aerospace specialists to find out what happens when you're in flight. I'll give you a hint -- a certain disaster.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u70	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Paweł Krutul, the Left. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u71	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We expect diplomatic services to be as professional as possible. Therefore, I hope that, as a Polish parliamentarian from Podlasie, I will be well represented by Polish diplomacy and drawing the state, government, conclusions, and you will not make such mistakes as so far. An example can be incomprehensible and not giving anything in the international arena such as: Mr Karczewski, Marshal of the Senate, during his visit to Belarus, who said that President Lukashenka was a warm and kind man. So? Belarus, Belarusians have been protesting on the streets of their country for more than five months, not agreeing as much as the whole of Europe on an unfair presidential election. I also have high expectations that the President of the Republic and the Government will build the best relationship with the new President of the United States and its administration, because thanks to Joe Biden a new order is coming on the international, global stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u72	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Adam Szapka from the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u73	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The best justification for the fact that this law is a personnel leap and the liquidation of a professional foreign service is how, in accordance with that law, the qualification requirements for performing a foreign service have been reduced. That is why I have a question for the Minister: What qualifications must we now have to meet in order to be a foreign servant, and what qualifications must we have in accordance with this law? Another thing is that the Academy of Diplomatics is not only supposed to prepare employees in advance for foreign service, but also to run courses for people who have already been employed for these posts. So the question is, how long are these courses going to last? And about the state to which Polish diplomacy has been brought over the last six years, this indicates that Andrzej Duda is probably the last [[♪ The bell ♪]] the head of state who congratulated the new president of the United States on his victory. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u74	Thank you, sir. The question will be asked by Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u75	Dear Marshal! First, a question for your marshal. Do you think it is appropriate that the project is first sent to the Sejm on 13 January and then on 14 January appears on the Government's Legal Center portal? Is this good from the point of view of social control over the legislative process as well? This is the first case. Second thing. This short time limit for the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs prevented the consumption of the request for a public hearing because this project is appalling. This proposal introduces a definition of diplomatic secrecy, which is a definition that involves a large voluntary, very unclear definition of the use of this concept. The question is very simple, Minister. We are witnessing many irregularities, mismanagement. Will access to this diplomatic mystery also include Members and Senators who (the bell) will perform their control functions?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u76	Thank you, sir. Mr Marek Krzakła, the Civic Coalition, will be the last to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u77	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The procedated draft law on foreign service, without consultation, without public hearing, without expert opinion, is another instrument that destroys Polish diplomacy, weakens position and image on the international stage. An example of Ambassador Przyłębski from a Berlin facility called TW Wolfgang shows how not to practice diplomacy, and this law, Minister, only strengthens such people instead of removing them from foreign service. Hence the questions: Why should this law serve? What's with the rush and the night procession? What are you trying to do this way? Why are you misleading the public by saying in the explanatory memorandum that this project depoliticizes diplomacy, while it is quite the opposite? And finally, Minister, why are you weakening your position for the Director-General or the new Head of Foreign Services whose qualifications are scandalously low? Where's your own policy? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u78	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of Foreign Minister Zbigniew Rau. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u79	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I listened to this debate with mixed feelings. I must admit that it was dominated by the visions of the Apocalypse, which presented some ideological consistency, but had nothing to do with the present reality, nor with the reality which will be created in the foreign affairs department by the procedated law. Therefore, I will allow myself to ignore those issues which were presented with a very strong ideological and political motivation, for which the whole conceptual idea of this law was simply condemned. On the other hand, I see in your comments a certain substantive cargo, which, however, needs to be ordered before I try to respond to it. First of all, I'm talking about countries. reservations about the separation of the political and official dimension of work in Polish diplomacy under the passed law. The state is very passionately protesting the political election and political dimension of the ambassadors. You are protesting that expressis verbis define their position as a strict political position. Mr Bartoszewski, whose opinions on various issues I respect, has repeatedly pointed out, both yesterday and at the committee meeting and today, that such a distinction will harm our diplomacy, and has relied three times on the casus of his sleep. My father. Mr. Pierce, you're asleep. When he became ambassador, his father was not a member of the diplomatic corps, he was a political nomination. And was he a bad ambassador? You're gonna answer that. Exactly. For this type of situation, this type of political action will be inspired by this law, which you are so passionately criticizing. You are particularly critical of the distinction between a substantive element and a political element, an official, because this is a corps of professional diplomats with political denominations. With equal passion, you criticized as if there is a provision in the draft of this law that the ambassador may not be older than a 65-year-old. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There is no provision that indicates that the ambassador can only be a younger person than a sixty-five-year-old or a sixty-five-year-old. This concerns the corps of professional diplomats. (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Let's go back to your father's case. Could he be appointed ambassador today? [[♪ The bell ♪]] He could. And not only at the age of 67, which you emphasize, but also 88. It is a question of qualifications, trust, but also intellectual roots, substantive roots in an area in which he would pursue the policy of the Polish state. Let's move on. One of the Members was polite to disagree with the assumption that the archives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should be opened and that their resources should be put at the disposal of the IPN. What's wrong with that? For several years, researchers from the IPN have had access to other resources, other resorts, mainly the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. How do you justify that? Access to historical sources? Or in some other way? What is the justification for further closure of these archives from scientific communities, from public discourse, simply from public knowledge? I didn't hear such a justification, and the charge was made. Ladies and gentlemen! Someone picked it up in the discussion, not one person. There have been many allegations that this law is supposed to destroy the diplomatic community, and we should be proud of the strong position of professional diplomats. That's the concept that's even being introduced by this bill. And for that, among others. points out its ratio legis, to the creation of precisely such a foreign service, which will have a professional, apolitical, of all substance. It will be a corps of experts, a corps of specialists, a corps of those who have the best knowledge of the tasks which in foreign policy stand before the Commonwealth. Many arguments have been made about this - with this absolutely I agree - that the art of diplomacy is a difficult art, that it requires knowledge, but not textbook knowledge, not seminary knowledge, but practical experience, and therefore a long-term, and actually often demanding effort throughout life. That's it. That's it. That's it. But what are you defending in the current status quo? You defend the status of the Diplomat Academy as the only way to enter foreign service. And today we have over 4600 people working in the resort and in the facilities. Do you know how narrow the needle ear, even the biblical ear, is the Diplomat Academy? It passes from 10 to 20 people each year. And after a year of classes there, ladies and gentlemen, these young people get their first diplomatic degree. After college, they go to the academy for a year and they're already diplomats. And this, this situation you're defending, while no one, with the slightest illness, would go to a doctor who would have been trained after college for a year, unless he had to. Therefore, every doctor's specialization lasts 5 years, and legal applications last 3 years. And you say that the present state is satisfactory, if this application, which ends with the examination and the giving of the first degree of diplomatic, lasts a year - in today's complicated world, with all the tasks facing diplomacy, which you were polite not comprehensively but clipping out in this debate. It is precisely that this law creates for young people a completely different opportunity to enter foreign service: 3 years of internship in the institution as a foreign worker. Young people will then decide for themselves whether they want such a career, but they will prove themselves on the spot, i.e. in the institution, with all the special requirements of service outside the country, under such conditions. And what would you like to do? You would like this state to continue. Finish off, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to reassure you about the voices that emerged in this discussion concerning people with disabilities in the Ministry and their legal position. In this discussion there was a natural reference to their legal position on the basis of the provisions of the Civil Service Act. Please reach for the article. It's a six-year bill. There is a reference to the fact that the Civil Service Act is referred to in situations which are not regulated by the provisions of the law. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for the substantive comments you made during this debate. I only regret that they were covered with such a huge load of unwillingness to understand the ratio legis of this legal act. I am convinced that there is still time for your position, I am speaking to you from the opposition, to adopt a more differentiated approach to this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u80	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, a request was made to reject the draft law submitted, I propose that the Sejm proceed to the third reading without referring it back to the committee. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. Objection. Is there an objection? Yes. If there's an objection, we'll vote it out in the voting block. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm declaring a 10-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 min. 42 hours 10 min 53]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the law - Customs law and some other laws (print No 833). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Ms Magdalena Rzeczkowska, to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u81	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a government bill amending the Customs Law and some other laws contained in Seym Printing No. 833. The main objective of the bill submitted is to improve the issuing of decisions on customs and tax duties and fuel and issue charges which are due for imports of goods. This improvement is proposed by appropriate application to the procedures for the determination of tax duties and fuel charges and the issue fee of certain customs legislation. As a result, customs duties and tax duties and those duties payable on imports of goods will be determined by the head of the customs and treasury office in one decision, after having carried out one, common to all these duties and charges of the proceedings. In the current legal state, import duties are determined in a customs decision following a customs procedure on the basis of customs legislation, while VAT, excise duty, fuel levy and issue fee are determined in tax decisions following separate tax proceedings. Given that these proceedings, both customs proceedings and tax proceedings, are carried out in respect of the same facts, i.e. in relation to the same person, the same goods, the same events which result in a tax obligation and a customs debt, such action is simply ineffective, extends the time of the case, complicates the whole process and generates administrative costs. The solution proposed by the law eliminates this duality. Conducting a single procedure and consequently issuing a single dimensional decision will simplify, speed up and formalise the whole process of granting import duties. This process will thus become more efficient, more coherent, but also, which is extremely important, more understandable for importers, for taxpayers of these taxes and charges. This is a solution that is advocated by both customs authorities and by entities involved in trade in goods with foreign countries. It also builds on the experience of applying the new customs rules since 2016, when the new EU Customs Code and the revised customs legislation entered into force. This experience has just shown efficiency as a result of this new, modernized customs procedure. It should be stressed that the provisions of the Tax Order will continue to apply to import taxes as well as to the fuel levy and the issue fee. This amendment excludes the application of only certain provisions in Section 4 of that Law concerning tax proceedings, those which also do not currently apply to customs proceedings, and this does not apply to provisions which refer to the feasibility of the decision. Here there are two separate legal solutions. The implementation of the proposed solution requires, in addition to amendments to the Act - Customs law also changes in the laws: on tax on goods and services; on excise duty; on motorways to be paid and on the National Road Fund; Environmental law and in the Tax Order. These changes are not the only changes proposed by the Act. Further amendments aimed at simplifying the operation of the National Tax Administration are amendments to the Act - Customs law as regards the competent authority and procedures concerning the keeping of a list of guarantors entitled to provide guarantees to cover amounts arising from customs debts and the entry of customs agents, hereinafter amending the Act on toll motorways and the National Road Fund adjusting the provisions governing the fuel levy to excise legislation and ensuring full harmonisation of fuel charging rules with EU legislation, subsequently amending the Act on the principles of registration and identification of taxpayers and payers, which allows the number of PESEL to be assigned to persons, mainly foreigners, not engaged in business activities, who are not registered VAT taxable persons, instead of the NIP number. We want them to have a PESEL number, even though they have difficulty fulfilling their reporting obligation. This is a change that benefits taxpayers. It is also important to change the Gambling Act, which is intended to deformise, simplify, shorten the procedures for handling gambling cases by electronicising these processes. The procedures for listing illegal gambling sites in the register of domains for offering gambling not in accordance with the Gambling Act (the bell) and the procedures for punishing telecommunications traders and payment service providers not complying with the provisions of the Gambling Act will also be simplified. These solutions are designed to seal the system and ensure the safety of players using legal online entertainment. By passing on the draft law of the High House for consideration, I would like to assure you that we are ready by the government to participate in parliamentary work with full commitment. I ask the High House to proceed with the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u82	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Noblet, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u83	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government draft law amending the Customs Law Act and some other laws, print No. 833. The draft of this law aims to simplify and streamline the regulation of customs and tax duties and fuel levy and issue fee for imports of goods. It is also intended to reduce the formalities related to various processes associated with the import of goods, including the reporting obligation, and will provide the possibility of electronic handling of gambling cases. The new provisions of the Act are intended to bridge certain gaps and inconsistencies resulting from the application of customs and tax rules, including the identification of taxpayers. As a result of the changes, some issues related to the supervision of gambling operators will be transferred from the Minister of Finance to the level of the National Tax Administration and the head of the Customs and Treasury Office. There will also be a photo of some restrictions from the rental companies for gambling. Part of the provisions contained in this draft law is intended to ensure consistency between the various regulations, including those of the Union Customs Code. Amendment of the Act - Customs law covers to different extent changes in 12 laws. The project also includes four implementing acts - two regulations of the Minister of Finance, Funds and regional policy and two regulations of the Minister of Infrastructure. This bill has its scope, among others. to the following entities: the Minister responsible for Finance, the Minister responsible for Infrastructure, the National Tax Administration, the Tax Administration, the Tax and Customs Offices, tax advisers, representatives of customs agents, traders importing goods, operators of gaming rooms, internet domain subscribers, telecommunications companies, payment service providers and entities subject to tax on excise duties on motor fuels and gas. The Act has little financial impact on the public finance sector. On the savings side there will be lower administrative costs. A reduction in costs will also help to extend the scope of IT and the development of e-services. The budget costs resulting from the adoption of this law are linked to the need to provide nine additional posts for changes covered by this amendment. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support this bill in the further legislative process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u84	Thank you, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition has the floor of Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u85	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft law amends three important areas. The first area concerns importers. In the case of imports of goods, there will be only one procedure for all charges and charges and only one decision covering both customs duties, taxes and charges will be issued. It is worth noting that both customs and tax proceedings are currently under way. As a result of these proceedings, depending, of course, on the type of goods, even several decisions are issued. Currently they concern customs and tax duties and charges, the issue fee, which is paid by companies introducing motor fuels to the Polish market, and fuel charges paid, among others. by manufacturers of motor fuels. Moreover, several decisions are often issued in these proceedings. The regulations contained in the proposal are intended to reduce costs and improve these procedures, which should be considered as a reduction in the bureaucracy faced by importers on a daily basis. The project also provides for the possibility to give a PESEL number to persons who are not engaged in business activity or who are not registered VAT payers and who do not have a registered registration in the territory of the Republic of Poland. Such a change can help to reduce irregularities on the part of taxpayers and be beneficial for employers who employ foreigners. The second area of statutory amendments concerns fuel and emission charges. In this draft, this law proposes amendments that align the provisions governing the fuel levy with the provisions of the Excise Tax Act and give the possibility to apply for reimbursement of the fuel levy. It shall be returned in cases and under the conditions laid down for the refund of excise duty at the request of the entity which is in fact entitled to such refund. In addition, after the proposed legislation, the head of the customs office will become the authority to accept information on the issue fee for the import of motor fuels. Currently, this information is submitted to the head of the tax office, so it is a rather strict technical and organizational solution. And finally, the third area in which the bill introduces changes is the area of gambling. Government legislation simplifies and shortens the procedures for cases in the area of gambling. These include: enable operators in this industry to provide information that has been specified in the Gambling Act by electronic means. It must be made clear that adapting the state administration to the opportunities available in the 21st century should be standard and obvious. Dear Minister, You have pointed out in this draft law that the need to introduce these provisions results from previous organisational changes and the creation of the National Tax Administration. Now it is the authorised KAS authority that will approve entries in the register of domains on which they are, in quotes, suspended illegal gambling parties. Rather, this proves that there is still some kind of chaos, because after all, the National Tax Administration was founded four years ago. However, these changes have not yet been adopted, so I think it is strange and simply late. And in the context of the changes in gambling, it is worth noting a few important doubts. I would also like to ask the Minister for two proposals in the draft from the area of gambling. First of all, why would the government want to give you the opportunity to locate a gaming salon in any place, including one in which the running of a living room was not in accordance with the rules over a period of 5 years? You can't do that now, you can't run a living room like this. You guys are downloading this recipe. Secondly, why would the government want to shorten the period of storage of the audiovisual signal in the game room from 3 years to 12 months? It seems precisely that such a solution will restrict access to evidence in a possible process related to the control of such a place. Now it's 3 years, you're shortening that obligation to 12 months. Finally, the question is: On whose request or on whose recommendation (the bell) have these proposals been introduced, which are changing the provisions on the rules of gambling? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u86	Thank you, sir. On behalf of the Left, Mr Dariusz Wieczorek. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u87	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Indeed, I have the pleasure of presenting our position on behalf of the Left Club regarding the Law amending the Customs Law and other laws, print No. 833. I think this is also an opportunity to ask why this bill is coming so late, because the National Tax Administration was founded in March 2017, and therefore a period of 4 years, I think, is sufficient to allow some things to be improved and simplified on an ongoing basis. My question on behalf of the club is this: Why is this happening only today? Let me just remind you that the process of creating the National Tax Administration was very complicated. The assumptions were to merge these scattered databases to simplify the procedures to harmonise these procedures, to introduce information systems, in order, above all, to conduct staff matters well, and finally, to finance the National Tax Administration. And the question is, it's like with these problems. You've done well, because we know very well that at that stage and there have been many court trials, and the workers, especially the customs services, had great reservations about how to consolidate, and therefore, I think, today is an opportunity for us to talk about it. As for the draft law itself, the Left Club states that the bill is going in the right direction, i.e. Indeed, the provisions in this project are designed to simplify procedures, to bring about the situation that the head of the National Tax Administration will be the person who will take decisions in place of the Minister of Finance. This is the right direction. The next thing you know, it's a matter of customs. It is also very important to reform this procedure in our view. Another point is to clarify the provisions on customs proceedings and these provisions are set out in the Act. I also think that this law will improve the adoption of decisions, to which many actors today have pointed out, saying that the issue of improving the adoption of decisions as regards the National Tax Administration is very important. Competences, which will also arise when it comes to the heads of customs and treasury offices, are also a very important issue. The point is that, in general, these competences are really going down, and that gives us the opportunity to make quick and good decisions. Another issue is, of course, this PESEL number for entities that are foreign entities do not have the business they are running today. I think that's a good direction too. With regard to issues related to the whole gambling area, there is one issue that we are concerned about, namely that today the branch director or branch chief will decide on the location of the gaming parlor. The question is, where did this entry come from? I am asking, therefore, that when it comes to issues relating to gaming salons, there is also a change in this law and there is a detail regarding where these salons can be. Therefore, today, the question is why one-man director should take decisions on this matter, since the law determines where these salons may be located. In conclusion, the Left Club is in favour of further proceedings over this law and will, in any event, submit amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u88	Thank you, sir. Thank you. Please, now on behalf of the Confederation, Mr Michał Urbaniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u89	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo - though very empty! We are proceeding over a government bill amending the Act - Customs Law and other laws, print no. 833. The main objective is to improve the issuing of decisions on customs duties, taxes and import charges or to deform customs procedures. It's the right direction, it's worth going this way. In the case of imports of goods, there will be only one procedure for all duties, both customs and tax. The consequence is that one decision will be made. Great, let's do this. According to the draft law, foreigners who are not registered in the territory of the Republic of Poland, who are not established or who are not registered with VAT will be able to apply for a PESEL. The aim is to improve the identification of foreigners. Well, here I have some doubts. I see that instead of controlling migration, the government is simply trying to normalize it, legalize it and improve its work instead of actually taking action to solve the problem. High Izbo! State policy is a consequence of the State's commercial policy. This is about customs policy. As we know very well, the common commercial policy is the sole competence of the European Union. Poland cannot de facto conduct external trade policy itself, and EU trade policy, or perhaps more precisely: the European Commission's trade policy, is not always consistent with what is the Polish national interest and what is the Polish interest of exporters and importers. In turn EU authorities conduct policies in a manner consistent with the interests of the largest EU economies, based on the pursuit of the greatest dependence of Polish trade and the Polish economy. This is in line with the long-standing promotion in the world of institutions such as the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank or the World Trade Organisation. The programme of globalisation of trade is presented by the Uniocrats as beneficial for smaller or developing economies. However, practice shows that after decades of such pressure on the globalization economy, these smaller ones, the less developed ones, despite the significant liberalisation of trade, are not doing any better. The main beneficiaries here are larger markets and better developed economies, which provide themselves with a market and reserve so-called. Cheap labor. Globalisation is not the result of convergence, but rather of preserving the existing divisions, the existing economic situation in the world. The rich countries are getting even richer, and the poor ones will just remain a little less poor. This is not a pro-freedom or a pro-Polish approach, it needs to be made clear to itself. Of course, the proposed rules are designed to facilitate customs procedures, but in the absence of real independence in negotiating trade agreements between countries, the introduction of tariff and non-tariff measures here is simply a technical provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u90	Thank you, sir. And I ask Mr Jack Protasiewicz, Coalition Poland. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u91	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives to present their position on the draft law amending the law - Customs law and some other laws. Under this euphemistic wording there is a huge matter of changes covering not only one law, which is the Customs Law, but also ten other areas regulated by law, including three tax-related laws, because the tax law is amended in this project, the Customs Tax Act and the Excise Tax Act. The changes also concern specific solutions, such as those included in the laws on toll motorways and the National Road Fund, on the principles of registration and identification of taxpayers and payers, on environmental protection, on the Railway Fund, on the National Tax Administration or finally on the Fund for the development of public-service bus transport and - interestingly and in some sense wondering - also the act on gambling, which I will discuss in detail in my speech later. It is therefore difficult, in a few minutes' speech, to address all the proposed changes and we hope that there will be time to discuss them thoroughly in committee work. As regards the most important changes, the positive solutions proposed by the government appear to be those aimed at simplifying and de-forming certain procedures, such as the official listing of persons on the list of guarantors or customs agents, as well as the combination of customs, tax and fuel and emission charges. Undoubtedly, these solutions deserve attention and support. In our opinion, it is also a good direction to transfer decision-making powers from the Ministry of Finance to the level of National Tax Administration. Where problems are dealt with closer to the citizen, closer to the interest, closer to the customer, we should of course be better, although in this context our concern is a little bit of giving power not only to decision-making but also to appeal the head of the National Tax Administration. This is particularly the case for decisions concerning the inclusion or refusal of entry on the list of guarantors and customs agents. It kind of raises our doubts. I hope that they will be disbanded during the committee work. On the other hand, some solutions to gambling, in particular the amendment to the Article, raise serious concerns. 15 Gambling Act, which aims to remove barriers in the placement of gaming salons on slots. We read the justification. We understand that the government believes that this will reduce the activity of the shadow economy. However, it is the context of the previous decisions of this office which, during the pandemic period, reduces the activity of many industries, including in particular catering, but also event or even sports, has some extraordinary predilection, so as to be extremely concerned about the functioning of the gambling industry. This must be surprising, it is worrying, because next to this solution is also the one that talks about shortening the period of keeping audio records from slot machines from 3 years to 1 year, while the Ministry of Justice in a number of other solutions proposes even extending the period of storage of such records and such data. Here we will demand clarification during further work in committee and in parliament. We look forward to a fair and fair explanation of all the questions that are born on these very solutions, but we are ready to work on this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u92	Thank you, sir. We've finished our club appearances. Now let's get to the questions. The list of Members shall be small. Would any of you like to sign up? If not, I'm closing this list. The first question will be asked by Mr Andrzej Noblet, Law and Justice. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u93	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My question concerns the social impact of this amendment. Will the new registrations have an impact on the reduction of the grey area in the area of illegal online gambling and the availability of advertising for illegal gambling? Is it possible to expect that access to gambling via the Internet will be more difficult than in the current legal situation? The second question concerns the costs that are projected as a result of the introduction of these additional nine posts. What is the cost, what is the annual cost of creating the necessary nine jobs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u94	Thank you, sir. Here you go, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u95	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, as it sounded in the club appearances here, I think someone in the gambling industry has reached the ministry. The question, of course, is whether these liberalisation laws should be adopted in some way, because gambling generates powerful social and financial consequences. However, a very high degree of caution must be taken into account. On the other hand, I have three specific questions. The first concerns how the head of the National Tax Administration will calculate the distance from those units from which it is necessary to keep the distance - in the case of the living room. The second question concerns the deadline laid down in Article. 16: 30 days to use the NIP number. Is that time, a 30-day term sufficient? The third question concerns possible cost consequences for economic operators. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Has the Ministry analysed the question of possibly adapting companies to these rules? If so, what are the possible consequences, costs and time? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u96	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Marek Rutka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u97	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This project presents further new challenges to the head of the National Tax Administration and its subordinate unit. My question is: Isn't this another, in this case a little subtle, attempt to explain the creation of new positions for party activists in the National Tax Administration? Isn't it better to use the existing posts of the National Tax Administration chaplains? Chaplains make $6,000. PLN per month, and do not belong to the most worked group in the National Tax Administration. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u98	Thank you, sir. Mr Robert Obaz, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u99	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Act - Customs law in many provisions which it contains is certainly going in the right direction. The proposed provisions provide for a regulation whereby the head of the customs and treasury office will conduct a single procedure to determine import duties, including taxes, fuel charges and issue fees. Consequently, there will be one case and one decision will be taken. Considering that the target is among others. I would like to ask: How much is the cost at present, and how much will it decrease after the proposed solutions have been introduced? Let me add one more thing: we have, you can see, progress, because we talked about gambling in the cemetery before, and today - in the Seym Hall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u100	A very serious change, sir, I believe. Thank you very much. I would like the floor of Minister Magdalena Rzeczkowska, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u101	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for your comments, also for your support for this project. I am, of course, looking forward to the discussion and the opportunity to clarify with details of the proposed solutions during the work of the committee. I will refer to your comments, your objections raised in your speeches. Why did it take so long to make these changes? It's been four years since the implementation of the National Tax Administration. Ladies and gentlemen, these changes meet, on the one hand, the expectations of traders with regard to importers as regards the customs and tax proceedings carried out. We wanted to gain experience in the functioning of the new customs procedure system, collect the opinions of entrepreneurs and only on this basis, with the assurance that we would ensure the correct level of safety and speed and efficiency of processing, we decided to introduce this regulation. Other regulations are also the result of observation, gathering experience from the functioning of the National Tax Administration, which allows us, among others. when it comes to sealing the tax system in the area of the gambling market, introduce and propose further solutions that will further increase security and seal the system. As far as specific questions are concerned, two elements concerning the gambling market were mostly in your statements. It is about the location and the abolition of a 5-year limit on the location of new slot arcade arcades in locations where an illegal slot game device has been found. Ladies and gentlemen, precisely in connection with the sealing of the system, the liquidation or significant reduction of the number of illegal points in slots, the increase of public awareness in this area and the migration of players to the legal sector, to the legal market, it seems that this is the moment to allow the location of slot machines also in these attractive places. The removal of this provision will further reduce the gray area, extend the supply of attractive places and remove restrictions in the freedom of the landlords to dispose of the property, allowing the choice of tenants according to the will and the disposal of the owner of the premises. As far as the next issue is concerned, i.e. the limitation to 12 months of the obligation to store the audio-visual signal in the case of slot arcades, I would like to say that the data on the tax base is stored primarily in the electronic, recording and archiving system. This is primarily a source of control data. There is no need to store an audio-visual signal in the case of slot dealerships. 12 months is long enough. It should be noted that the time allowed for complaint of games in the slot dealership is 3 months from the day of the event. Therefore, the 12-month storage period is sufficient. The question has been raised as to whether the rules on gambling will further seal and limit the grey zone. Definitely so, mainly in connection with the extension of the possibility of entering the domain register of those websites that illegally advertise gambling. This prevents the emergence of online domain clones. When the domain is entered in the register, closed, a clone appears, i.e. another version of this domain, created and made available from other areas. There is also a phenomenon of linking websites, conquering their value, attractiveness and accessibility through advertisers from other countries, not from Poland, but it is available to users in Poland. Therefore, a wider range of registration options and a faster procedure will significantly contribute to the reduction of the grey area. I'll mention the cost of employment. Eight hundred and twenty thousand. PLN (Bingle) per year is the cost of employment of 9 people. In the following years it will be 890 thousand. zł. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u102	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. I propose that the Sejm refer the government draft law amending the Customs Law and some other laws contained in print No. 833 to the Public Finance Commission for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Ladies and gentlemen, we are waiting for the senator who is the applicant at the next point. Since she's not here yet, and we've got a slight acceleration, I'm announcing a 10-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 mins 32 hrs. 11 min 41]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: First reading of the Senate draft law amending the law - Code of Civil Procedure and some other laws (Print No 584). I ask Senator Magdalena Kochan to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u103	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am presenting a draft law which was announced by the Senate majority at the time when we considered it a priority to adopt legislation amending the Civil Code. This is the Government's draft law of 30 April 2020. We have noticed a number of changes in this project, a number of changes needed, but also a number of errors, legislative shortcomings concerning clarification of various things, as well as shortcomings in substance. However, we considered it a priority to adopt the proposed amendments quickly so that they could effectively and quickly help the victims of the most horrible of the crimes of domestic violence - a phenomenon which, unfortunately, is increasing in relation to the pandemic. And the announced novel of this law is the subject of today's proceedings. What are we changing in the law already adopted and in the legal system? Well, we're adding a new measure that will protect more people who are victims of violence in the family, i.e. A restraining order. In today's legislation, we have an order to leave home and neighborhood, to be close to home by the perpetrator of violence, but we are not protecting property, we are just protecting people. We therefore believe that this order to leave the apartment must involve a restraining order against the injured person. We introduce this restraining order into the legal order, arming the police and the gendarme, which we include in the Blue Card procedure, and the courts. The person who is harming shall be entitled to appeal against that decision to the court, which shall be dealt with by the senators within 48 hours. We have a problem here, because we don't necessarily agree with the Ministry of Justice about this deadline, but we have been clarifying since the 48 hours since the complaint was filed with the court. We simplify the way in which protocols are signed, which need to be set aside and prohibited by the perpetrator of violence. We believe that he can take away his belongings for work, including pets, but when signing this protocol it is enough for a person who is victimized by violence, or a person appointed by him, it does not have to be a protocol signed in the community, as does the testimony of a person who is victimized by violence, it does not have to be done in the presence of a suspect for violence. So getting things out of the house must also be accepted by the person who remains at home - victims of violence. The minutes and statements may be made without the presence of a person suspected of violence or of the perpetrator of violence, except that a police officer, a police officer, is required to inform the person suspected of this crime of the content of the testimony submitted or to notify it. And here, too, we specify what this notification is supposed to look like when contacting a suspected violent person or the perpetrator of violence is hindered. On the door of the common apartment in the sealed envelope there is a notification of the flood for which all measures have been applied to it, but, we also specify, it is given in a clear and easily understandable manner by a person who does not necessarily need to know the legal language. We have also made a number of legislative and editorial changes. We've removed the error of reference. We've called the real name of the fund we're talking about, in short, justice. It has its official name: the fund of the victims and the post-penitentiary... You know better than that. Somewhere in the paperwork, the name's missing. Excuse me: Fund for Helping the Wounded and Post-Penitentiary Assistance. Such a formula is used in the legislation that we are submitting to the High House. Customization (Bingle) and Change... I'm almost done, Marshal. Of course, these editorial issues and these things are of no doubt. It's worth taking. Last sentence. We are used to being reluctant to consider senate initiatives by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. It is with the greater pleasure of me to present to you a draft code law for which the Sejm has applied correct legislation and whose first reading takes place in the plenary room. But I am sorry to say that the date proposed by the senators for the entry into force of this law is 30 November 2020. Therefore, when submitting this proposal to the High House, I ask, on behalf of the victims of a cruel and disgusting crime, for the swift trial and implementation of the proposed solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u104	Thank you, Senator. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr Sak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u105	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have the opportunity to present the position of our club at the same time. First of all, I would like to thank the Senator and the Higher House for their efforts, efforts and work to prepare this project. There is no doubt that we have common goals, intentions, and ideas. It is about protecting a family that has been subjected to violence, for example by creating barriers and a security buffer and pacifying the legal perpetrators of domestic terror. This type of practice and behaviour should be burned with a legal fire and sword consisting of, for example, a combination of tools and instruments, regulations that enable effective fight against domestic peacebreakers. The State's actions are to restore balance, and the place of execution and Gehenna in return is to become a place of normality and tranquility, such a kind of asylum. Moving on to the point: your concept, as you point out in the explanatory memorandum, is to be complementary. In my opinion, this is a risky thesis, because there are already very similar solutions, because we are introducing civil isolation to some extent. All these solutions, tools can double. I hope, of course, that these institutions will complement each other, but I also have great doubt that, in the context of their wealth, they will not compete with each other and, colloquially speaking, jump into each other's eyes. I am so concerned that the victim or the victim, due to the spectrum of multiple solutions, will face a dilemma that will be the best and most effective for him. It may be a problem, but I hope it can be polished so that everything is clear and clear. As regards the detailed solutions, I have doubts and concerns about leaving information on the door as regards this order, a ban. It can actually be an additional stigmatism and lead to secondary victimisation of victims or victims. We are aware that finesse, calculating the perpetrators, as the senator said, these most hideous crimes from the perspective of the family... Well, it can be done in white gloves, so that you can't even see it by neighbors in multi-bedroom blocks. Therefore, it seems to me that this should be considered. Another point, perhaps over-regulation as regards the hearing of victims without the involvement of the perpetrator. At this stage, if this were really the case, and my experience as a lawyer... I've run a few hundred family cases. This would actually lead to the exclusion of freedom of expression. It seems to me that no prudent officer ever leads to such a situation that in the same place at this stage... You refer to similar rules on court cases, whether criminal or civil, but it is not like that there should be joint hearings at this stage, because we realise that this would escalate rather than deescalate the conflict, and would also have a certain impact on the victims or victims of domestic violence. Of course, the subject is open. I can still see, after analysis, certain reserves and areas for improvement, as regards those provisions which were introduced by the 30 April Act, concerning the implementation of the protocols for the description of the property left behind. It seems that this can lead to even bigger problems and the emergence of additional quarrels and squabbles, because we know that in family matters these aspects of wealth, you know, intersect each other, cross each other. The issue of the legal community can also trigger a great ferment and emotional feeria. It seems to me that this may need to be considered, because it is primarily intended to isolate the perpetrator from the victim, not solve, even ad hoc, civil law cases. The second point concerns, for example, the return of these things, objects. Here is the question of the common position of people. It seems to me that it will be difficult at this stage to work in the community, because we are talking about the household, i.e. the minors. Here, too, there seems to be a reserve, a reserve of changes, to adjust it all. Nevertheless, we are, you might say, in the prologue of conduct. It is clear that this project, of course, as far as direction is concerned, remains the issue of detail. I hope that, at the next stages of the legislative work, these rules will be able to enter into force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u106	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mrs Monica Rosa from the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u107	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator! Domestic violence kills. Domestic violence isn't a fight, it's not a fight, it's not a fight. Domestic violence threatens the health and life of victims. Domestic violence affects people regardless of education, place of residence, social status or earnings. It is, in fact, very egalitarian and democratic. And the scale of violence is increasing, because isolation is very conducive to increasing tension, increasing fear, and increasing fear that the victim is locked in one house or apartment with his torturer. And that's what all the research and the voices of non-governmental organizations show. Even though the latest research of the Foundation gives the Children Force, carried out from March to June, shows that 27% children and adolescents experienced at least one of the 12 forms of harm studied. Every 10th child experienced violence from a loved one. She's had the same experience of sexual abuse. What's important is that what the 10th child has admitted is that there's no one to tell about this violence. That's why it's important to act quickly. It's not a question of direction. This is a matter of concrete solutions that we must adopt as a House as soon as possible. There's nothing to wait for, because the next day is the next day, it's another tragedy, another threat to health and life. That is why it is so crazy to allow a restraining order to be imposed against a person who is experiencing violence. Because this isn't about protecting property, this isn't about protecting the place. This is about protecting the health and life of the injured adult, protecting the health and life of the child. That is why it is so important to allow a person who is experiencing violence to have a chance to talk about how hard it was for him or her, what he or she experienced. It is so important to simplify all procedures so that they do not create further bureaucratic barriers so that the person who experiences violence can really help. The things we have to do are a crazy lot and this isolation period, quarantine has shown us so much how weak the institutions of the state are. Therefore, I ask you - Members, Members, Marshals, Committee members - that we proceed as soon as possible on this project, because this is not a matter of which side of the dispute is right. It's a matter of health and life. And we really need to do a lot: change the blue card procedure, train the police, courts, prosecutors, put in a record of economic violence. We must support NGOs. But let's start with this very good bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u108	Thank you, Member. I ask the floor of Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u109	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The issues of family violence and the protection of victims of such violence should be removed from all political disputes. I'm pretty sure about that. No police statistics or even the most involved NGOs will ever give up the real scale of domestic violence. More so is the result of a study in which Poles asked the question: Do you know personally or from the sight of at least one woman who was beaten by her husband or partner? The fifth person asked answers that question. That is why procedures are so important, sir. Therefore, we believe that it is necessary to ban the perpetrator's approach to the victim, not just the order to leave the cohabited premises. Because imagine that a person who is a violent person spends hours hanging out on a property adjacent to the house, standing outside the school where the child is being taught, in front of the victim's workplace. We need to tackle these situations because we need to strengthen the security of those who are victims of violence. We have this opportunity through these changes to the civil code, and thank you very much to the senators and to the senators. The lack of testimony by the victims in the presence of the oppressors is also a very important change. We cannot think about these issues. And the question of shortening the time in which a decision can be appealed is very important, because these 48 hours should not be questioned. We know cases in family cases where 24-hour terms are used, and the courts can do it. And none of these procedures are questioned. Therefore, it seems that for the safety of victims of violence, we should ensure that these procedures are as efficient as possible and that they work as quickly as possible. The very question of the protocol for taking personal belongings - now this requires that one adult be signed and the opinion of the victim of violence be decisive. This is also a very important aspect that would protect a person who is experiencing violence. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And last sentence, Marshal. We must bear in mind that many victims will never report a case of family violence, because they have no confidence in procedures, fearing inefficiencies in ensuring their later safety. Today we have a really great chance to strengthen these procedures and thus strengthen the sense of security of the weakest. I ask you to rise above the political divides and simply do so and work well on this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u110	Thank you, Member. I invite Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u111	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator! In April, I presented the position of the Left Club in relation to the Act amending the Civil Procedure Code and some other laws. It was crucial to change police powers so that an aggressive domestic executioner could instantly isolate and protect an injured family without waiting for the decision of the prosecution or courts, without unnecessary paperwork - immediately, because violence must be stopped and the victims guaranteed safety. We hide the shameful truth about the scale of violence in Polish families. Every day someone dies because of misunderstandings. Every day, three kids try to commit suicide. Every 40 seconds, another Polish woman experiences violence. We prefer not to know, and we prefer not to see, even in statistics. The police haven't published the number of domestic interventions they've had in a decade. We don't know how many fights the police are calling, but we do know that a decade ago it was over half a million a year. We count the blue cards, we know there are 100,000 cards. a year, but for several years, the Ministry of Zbigniew Ziobra was unable to count how many people, for what reason and for how much assistance was given from the Fund for the Hurted. Domestic violence can exist in any family, and it is not protected by the political view of the world, nor by religion, nor by a mouth full of clichés about the protection and holiness of life. This was experienced by Law and Justice yesterday. I commend your quick response and suspension of the domestic torturer, the prominent policy of the PiS. I didn't accidentally call the arrests of the PiS policy in Legnica. They isolated the domestic executioner from the injured family, they did the most important thing. Violence is growing because of the frustration caused by pandemics, isolation, job losses. In Lubusek the year began extremely ugly - from two murders of women and suicides of perpetrators. A 20-year-old girl and a 70-year-old girl were killed at the hands of their partners. Both gentlemen, when they realized what they did, committed suicide. There were children left, families wounded forever. If we'd intervened, they'd be alive. Since 30 November we have over 400 cases of isolation application. By voting in accordance with April, we saved 400 families from escalating violence. Here in this courtroom, we have shown solidarity with the victims and given the home Catholics a chance to come to their senses. But the process of both the insulation law in spring and the Senate novel shows our divisions in this room, mutual hostility and distrust. What are our intentions and, above all, the intentions of the ruling majority? We operate here, in this Chamber, and in Polish politics in the fumes of absurdity and propaganda. If the facts don't agree with the propaganda message, the worse it is for the facts. In April, the opposition asked for an express procedure over the insulation bill because it feared that the United Right would withdraw from supporting the government project. And she was right to be afraid, because suddenly in the Senate, the Senators of PiS were against the government bill. Why? The Deputy Minister of Justice said the bill needs to be amended. But how? As suggested by Ordo Iuris. What were they like? I am full of the worst fears if we look at the ideas of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, which wanted to consider the first beating of the family as the example of Putin Russia as legal and acceptable. The same ministry has just set up a monitoring team for anti-violence in the family with a psychic composition. Curiazal. And when the bill came to the president's desk, the Ministry of Justice on Kurski's television was bragging about introducing it in advertising spots. And after months of scaring, he no longer wants to denounce the Istanbul Convention. The Senate novel is what it should be - the result of parliamentary work involving experts and practitioners. It's a clean-up of the insulation bill out of the mishap, the sloppy legislation. It would not be necessary if we had confidence in each other that we are all about the welfare of citizens, not party games and push-ups. There is one thing in this novel for the amendment: the date of entry into force. Working in a wide team in the Senate, we wanted these amendments to enter into force on 30 November, so that the insulation bill would enter into force without errors. But the project was held up. Why? To wipe the Senate's nose? To show you who's more important? We propose we move on to second reading. We do so with the awareness that this error will have to be corrected in second reading. We're doing this because we're afraid of another worldview volt, a seym freezer, party games above the safety of the victims. We are afraid of what I just heard from Mr Pis. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I hope for solidarity with the victims of domestic violence. I hope so. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u112	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Senator! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I would like to present our position on the first reading of the Senate bill amending the Civil Procedure Code Act and some other laws, Parliamentary Printing No 584, but before I do so I would like to thank the Senate for this initiative, for taking expert work, also on the so-called. Separation law clarify, improve. I hereby do so and thank you to the senator. The project under investigation concerns the clarification of the rules in order to enhance the protection of people at risk of violence in the family from persons living together with them. And that's the problem that needs to be made clear in this room. He is above political divisions, he is above all kinds of worldview divisions, ideological divisions, or at least he should be. This is the first case. I've just had a taste of a little bit of a twist and a little bit of malice that's been popping up somewhere. This should not be the case if our intentions are sincere to work on eliminating domestic violence from our social space. The project is a continuation of what has already sounded here, adopted in 2020 by the Code of Civil Procedure to counter violence in the family. The main objective of last year's project was to give the police powers in the form of the possibility of issuing an order to a violent person in the family immediately leaving the occupied apartment and its immediate surroundings or prohibiting him from approaching the apartment and its immediate surroundings. If the victim is afraid of returning the perpetrator, he can apply to the court for an extension of the warrant. He's got 14 days. The perpetrator of violence may appeal to a court which will consider his complaint within three days. Last year's project in the opinion of specialists had significant shortcomings, including, above all, the lack of a restraining order against the victim. So that's like, uh... The beating wife and child husband must leave the apartment, but has the opportunity to exert pressure, to use violence, e.g. under the mother's workplace or under the shop where she shop. The unsub doesn't have a restraining order against the victims. Outside the area of his immediate surroundings, the victim has no real and complete isolation from the case. Under existing and new legislation, there is no possibility of a ad hoc restraining order against a violent person unless there is criminal proceedings under which such a measure can be applied. In the view of the Ombudsman, however, the new regulations, although they greatly extend the protection of the person affected, are not sufficient. It is also worth paying attention to today. They shall not comply with the requirements of Article. 52 of the Istanbul Convention, which provides that the parties shall adopt the necessary legislative measures or other measures to enable the competent authorities to order the perpetrator of domestic violence in situations of direct danger of leaving the victim's or the person at risk for an appropriate period and to prohibit the perpetrator from entering the premises occupied by the victim or the person at risk or contacting the victim or the person at risk. The measures taken pursuant to this Article will give priority to the safety of victims or persons at risk, while the standard of the Convention is still not fulfilled by means of an immediate restraining order against the person and not just to the apartment and its immediate surroundings. The protection of a violent person therefore has a significant gap, which should be filled as soon as possible by the legislator, which has been repeatedly pointed out. The Parliamentary Club of the Coalition of Poland is also in favour of working on this project as soon as possible, because it is not against someone, it does not agree with the policy of anybody. [[♪ The bell ♪]] from biases present in this Chamber, but above all it is intended to serve Poles and Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u114	Thank you very much. We have requests for questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the time... Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind... You're welcome. ...for one minute. First, Mr Mariusz Kałużny, Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Restoring justice or working to restore justice to citizens is long and hard for families. This problem needs to be dealt with as a whole, not only one law is needed here. Unfortunately, family violence is often caused by addictions, and addictions are often caused by bad economic circumstances of families and various complications of life. And on this occasion it is worth to emphasize what work has already been done in the Ministry of Justice in this area, and here it is about the law which you already know protecting victims of violence, about the end of wild privatisation, the end of the abuse of bailiffs, the end of taking children for poverty, the end of giving Polish children abroad and a number of other activities for the Polish family. As the Left said here, let us not wage a worldview war. I fear that this is supposed to be a worldview war, not a real (Dawn) helping Polish families. I think the initiative is very good... Thank you very much. ...for 30 years there have been few such initiatives in the Polish Sejm... Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. ...but we still have to work on it. Thank you. You spit in such foolishness, what you knew...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u116	There's no envoy. Mr Marek Rutka, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A Senate project to increase the protection of people at risk of violence in the family is urgently needed and necessary. For example, in my family The Gdynia police are called to about 20 family feuds a day. Unfortunately, the current law does not allow the issue of a restraining order against their victims. It is high time to change this situation, hence my question: Will the majority of the parliament, which so often convinces that the welfare of the Polish family is the most important to her, raise her hand behind this necessary bill? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u118	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u119	Thank you very much, Marshal. In view of the fact that even in the case of such a necessary project, which tries to organize, to detail such important matter, it is still trying to make a force of politicisation, I would like to ask the senator as the representative of the projectors: Was there any political pressure on the Senate by the European or Polish left? Has there been any black powers in the Senate, or has there been pressure on the Senate to deal with domestic violence at all costs? Was there any pressure on the Senate, the senators, that the Senate should be working on this bill? I think it is worth answering these questions in this House today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u120	Mr Krzysztof, I am sorry, Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In order to describe the crime of violence against the family, there is a lack of parliamentary words, so I will no longer try to describe it here, but the approach is, of course, very good... No, no, no, no, ...i.e. The restraining order is very good, but there is one more issue. Those who apply to my office, which I encourage to take various legal actions, say they don't want to look this person in the eye. This applies not only to crimes in the family, but also to other crimes. I think it would be worthwhile to take such solutions so that we can also limit this kind of judicial contact (the bell) of the victim. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u122	Thank you. Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u123	Dear Marshal, Senator! I thank the Senate very much for the initiative, which is intended to protect victims of domestic violence in a comprehensive manner. As my friends said, every 40 seconds there is violence against women in Poland, three people, three children every day in Poland try to commit suicide. If this law is to be effective, the separation of the person, the perpetrator from the victim is fundamental, therefore the restraining order against the victim is extremely important, it is essential that he be able to be included in the provisions of the Civil Code and be enforced. In addition, it is the inclusion of the Military Police, a quick element concerning the collection of things, the possibility of avoiding contact when making a statement. All these things are important to ensure that domestic violence in Poland is excluded as much as possible, to unite forces in the Polish Senate, in the Polish Sejm (Dzwonek) and quickly announce this desirable and important bill. Thank you very much. Applause
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u124	Thank you. Mr Robert Obaz, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u125	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The importance of this law, a law that protects the weakest, may be reflected in yesterday's media coverage of one of the prominent PiS activists in Lower Silesia, about Mr Jack Baczyński, who also used domestic violence against his family. And this gentleman was certainly not poor, as Mr PiS said here. This wasn't about poverty. This violence isn't just in those poorest families. This violence is really in places where people have a lot to live for, they have a lot of money, they're prominent PiS activists, like in this case. Thank you very much, Marshal, for reacting so quickly. As a piss attorney, and she called off the gentleman who was a member. But it's not gonna wipe the memory of everything he's done. I hope that such laws, such clarifications, will allow us to act much more effectively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u126	Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Catherine Ueberhan, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u127	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The law in force since 30 November last year introduced legal instruments to quickly isolate a violent person from a violent person. The police have been given new powers to issue an order to leave the apartment immediately or to close the door to the apartment and the immediate surroundings. Although the bill had a long vacathio legis, because up to 6 months, the police reported that it was already prepared after 3 months. I'd like to ask what those preparations looked like. Has anyone trained officers, who trained, and to what extent? I would also like to ask to what extent and in how many cases the victims of domestic violence have received assistance from the Justice Fund. And one more question. At the Ministry of Social Policy and Family Policy, there is a council consisting of the Caritas Foundation. I would like to ask why such a choice for this advice. Thank you very much. Applause
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u128	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u129	Mr. Marshal! Senator Kochan, representing the Senate initiative! We'd like to welcome you to the O.R. very warmly. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, There should be no tragedy, there should be no tears, there should be no domestic violence. There should be consensus that we should work out the best solution. There shouldn't be any buts in this room. And I'm surprised. Question for the senator. You have prepared one of the projects, and unfortunately the process period is prolonged. How are you prepared? Because the determination of Senator Kochan - dear colleague - I know and I know that the Senate can count on the opposition in this initiative. ♪ The bell ♪ But we do care, and this is an appeal to you from Law and Justice... Mr Adam Szłapka, Civic Coalition. ...to get you involved, and there's more money in the Justice Fund to help the victims than in advertising. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u130	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since 2016, we have seen this clearly in official statistics, there has been a sharp increase in domestic violence crimes. I have a question for you, senator applicant: What can result from such rapid growth? I'd like to draw your attention. And that we are dealing with a violent increase in hateful violence. Question: "How will the draft law, especially in a pandemic time, where we have a clear increase in the threat of domestic violence, affect procedures and facilitate, so to speak, the fight against this crime?" Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u131	Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. The list of MEPs was therefore exhausted. Now please speak to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Marcin Romanowski. He'll be able to connect with us remotely. You're welcome, Minister. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u132	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Senator! I am informative and brief, because the government's position is still being finalised, but it will, of course, be positive, moving towards recommendations for further work on the project. This proposal by the Senate to introduce a ban on family violence against violent people is an important and socially justified initiative. It is in this right direction that the provisions that have been in force since the end of November, which concern the immediate order to leave the apartment and the restraining order for it and its immediate surroundings, are being completed. These were regulations that were introduced by the Ministry of Justice initiative and adopted by the Polish Parliament. They have indeed introduced the highest standard of protection for those affected by domestic violence. Let me just point out that this is a standard that goes beyond the standard of the Istanbul Convention. It's not like the convention required us to do that. To date, the standard is that often for more than 140 days the person at risk of violence has remained under one roof with the perpetrator, unfortunately, has been included in this convention. As far as this is concerned, we obviously have no comments on the regulation, no amendments that concern legislative issues. Besides, they have already been discussed before, at the stage of work on this law of 30 April, and were also proposed by us. I'm glad the Senate took over, you might say, our comments. With regard to the initiative itself, it is, of course, in our view that it deserves approval, but it requires some clarification, consistency, rewording, broadening and adapting the proposed regulations to the current legal and family institutions in such a way that the proposed restraining orders can be implemented effectively. Just such a simple proposal that we have already proposed restraining orders against the surroundings of the apartment just add a restraining order to the person, in our view, will not work. At the Ministry of Justice, we are now working hard on these solutions, just as we have already announced at the stage of the law implementing an immediate police order. We will be happy to present our concrete proposals here, which are indeed necessary. For example, the issue mentioned here by one of the Members of the Committee of the Regions about the prohibition of approaching educational institutions is not well enough in our view in this project to be effective, or are certain, I believe, legislative errors. In relation to persons who have left their apartments, e.g. The perpetrator who has escaped, the police regulations allow for a restraining order, but the regulations in the Code of Civil Procedure proposed by the Senate do not introduce such a possibility, so these issues really need to be refined here. We are finalising our proposal, and I am convinced that we will work together to improve these regulations so that they are effective. As for training, because such a question has also been asked, if I can afford to answer it, 30,000 have been trained. Officers, so this is 1/3 of the entire number of police officers. We trained, of course, from the new regulations of the immediate police order, but also from issues related to child interrogations. There were trained prosecutors, judges, assistant judges working on the bill, police officers, and representatives of the High Commissioner. The United Nations for Refugees. I think it was one of the better implemented laws of this type, a law which, I will remind you, introduces completely new tools in the form of an immediate order to leave the apartment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And by the end of the day... Thank you. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice Marcin Romanowski: ...I'll tell you again, let me just repeat that, of course, we are positively assessing this proposal of the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u133	Thank you very much. Senator Magdalena Maria Kochan has the floor now. Mr. Marshal, according to the rules, how much time do I have for this answer? Five minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u134	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for all your kind remarks and thanks to the Senate. Of course, I'll pass it on to my fellow senators. What I am pleased about in this debate is that we all acknowledge that the crime of domestic violence does not deserve any justification, and we are all convinced that this crime should be prosecuted. Here even such a statement was made: to exterminate and burn iron to the bare ground. Yeah, that's how we're supposed to behave. Is that how we're gonna act in this case? I'm having second thoughts. I was pleasantly surprised by the fact that your marshal said - actually the day before yesterday this information was just dropped - that the order of today's sitting of the Sejm will be supplemented by the first reading of this project, which I will remind you from August - lies in the freezer. The completion of this agenda is not a coincidence, but it is forced by tragic events and press reports from Silesia about a crime committed by a party, political activist, very high in the local government hierarchy, also a functioning local governmentman. It is my suspicion that your Undersecretary of State has come forward because I am convinced that the scenario will be that we will wait for solutions that are currently being examined in the Ministry, these two projects will come together during the work of the Parliament committee and there will prove to be a government project so that none of the senators can be satisfied that he has brought anything into the law in this matter. I don't want to be a bad prophet in this case, to be clear, because it doesn't matter who the author of this project is. It is extremely important that victims of domestic violence must be protected by law in Poland and must know that Polish politicians, Polish policemen, military policemen and citizens are not on the side of those who are hurting, but on the side of those who are hurt. This violence is increasing, yes, it is increasing, ladies and gentlemen, because we are becoming a society - I say it with great sadness - getting worse. The hate speech we were supposed to fight is becoming more common. It's really enough to go to any portal to read about yourself if you're a politician, about yourself, if you don't like my friends, about someone I value and like - who you might be in the eyes of those who don't accept it. We don't seem to be fighting this hate speech at all. It's just been the anniversary of death... [[Applause]] Women's strike was a great example. I have 1 minute 50 seconds, Marshal, if I can see the timer correctly. Yes, sir. We were just celebrating the anniversary of the death of a man who was killed by the widespread use of hate speech, and I am thinking of President Adamowicz. See what happens in world politics when the main element of the speech of the elected and present-day President of the United States is the world's usual return to goodness, to respect for another man. If we do not understand this, this small and completely neutral political issue, which is the fight against violence - maybe the most political of political matters, because it requires political decisions, i.e. chambers of parliament, government, or political bodies - if we do not accept it politically, then we actually have no chance of any agreement on completely different, more difficult matters. Therefore, thanking you for your good and positive opinions on this matter, I assure you that the purpose of the Senate was not to say that the Senate was supposed to be on top, only to ensure that the fight against domestic violence was real in Poland and did not have party colors, because it often does not have much in common with politics, but with politics. Thank you very much, I am very much looking forward to working quickly and effectively in the Seym. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u135	Thank you, Senator. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a request was made to proceed immediately to the second reading of the bill. We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 5 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering additional questions. The first question is asked by Members Jarosław Zieliński, Andrzej Gawron and Jarosław Gonciusz from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on a government support programme for municipalities where PGRs were active. Please, with the question of Mr Jarosław Zieliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The Government of Law and Justice of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki initiated and announced a support programme for the popegeer communities. This is a historic decision for which the inhabitants of these areas of Poland, not to mention the PGR employees themselves, have waited almost 30 years. PGRs were massively liquidated at the beginning of systemic changes in Poland, often after their bankruptcy. Economic change in the late '80s and early '90s. last century implemented according to liberal, destroying Poland so-called. Balcerowicz's reforms have brought many injustices and social harm, leaving without work and life prospects for former PGR workers, whose assets have been taken over in many cases for invaluable by the communist nomenclature, and later by other cooperating groups of influences, which carried out their interests under post-communist agreements and links. The government's support programme for these areas is another important element of the Government of Law and Justice's approach to sustainable development of the country. I kindly ask you to provide more information on this programme and, in particular, to answer the following questions. Firstly, what is the envisaged scope of the envisaged types of state support for the so-called. Popegeer municipalities, what investment and social projects will be carried out within it? Secondly, what criteria must applicants meet in order to obtain financial support from this programme? Thirdly, will this programme continue and be supported by the state budget in the coming years? ♪ 'Cause this year ♪ this is the first amount that would also require expenditure in subsequent years. And fourthly, what social, civilization and development effects should this programme have, and what objectives are to be achieved as a result of its implementation? Minister, please answer these questions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u137	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Mr Paweł Chezernaker, is responsible. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u138	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! This is the first programme aimed at municipalities in the Popegeer region in the history of investment programmes, government funding programmes for local governments. It is one of the branches of the Government Local Investment Fund. The municipalities will receive a total amount of PLN 250 million. This is the first stage, we are aware that this will probably not allow all the investments made under the proposals to be realised on a national scale, but thanks to this programme, this first stage of the government will also have some review of the investment, an overview of the needs that are to be met throughout the country in the area of popegeer. I'm sure this is the first stage, but not the last stage, when it comes to support for the Popegeer area. The selection of applications takes from 4 January to 12 February, so that local authorities have 40 days to submit the application. The municipalities submit applications to the voivodeships. The proposals will also be evaluated by the National Agricultural Support Centre. First of all, the National Agricultural Support Centre will evaluate these proposals in order to meet the formal conditions for submission, namely whether it is really a Popeger area or not. The aim of the programme is to support the construction, expansion, reconstruction of first-needed investments in the area, investments that are already in many other places and are still lacking in these areas. It is about sanitation, sewage treatment plants, pumping plants, waterworks, connections to the gas network, internal roads, access to the village, lighting, sidewalks, bicycle paths, calming elements of traffic, but also rural centres that allow social integration, activation of residents, playgrounds, fireplaces, outdoor gyms, fire stations, simply investments which from the point of view of the municipality are investments of first needs in areas where people who worked in the PGRs live. As regards the application and the criteria, the proposal is above all very simple to submit. It has been simplified as much as possible so as not to create a bureaucratic barrier. The municipality must invest in a village in which the State Agricultural Economy Enterprises operated, i.e. in a village where the seat of the PGR was located - it is important, this is very often asked by local authorities - or there were property or land elements, or, in the case of linear investments, it should be an investment which affects the inhabitants of these localities. That's how it's gonna be judged. The proposal must relate only to property expenditure, without the possibility of reimbursement of expenditure already incurred. There is no obligation to contribute to the municipality. This is also important, because very often localities in the Popegeer region could not participate in various EU programmes, including national ones, because they simply did not contribute to these investments. These requests will be addressed to the voivodeship and, as I said, also evaluated by the National Agricultural Support Centre. We want this programme to implement the principle of sustainable development, so that investments that have been lacking for years in areas where residents have been affected, especially at the beginning of the systemic transformation, exclusion and for years have to organise themselves, organise many different investments themselves, and there has been no state support for this. The point is that this support should be today, especially because of the disparities that are there, and the time of pandemics, the time of the COVID-19 epidemic, unfortunately, is economically conducive to the deepening of inequalities. We would like this programme to be the answer to these problems concerning the first investment needs that are in these areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u139	Thank you. An additional question is asked by Mr Andrzej Gawron.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u140	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask if the municipalities where the PGRs functioned could submit more applications. What amounts may be included in these proposals? In particular, the municipalities that operate in our district, in which the PGRs were located, want to ask - because you said that there must be no own contribution to the investment - or if the application amounts to some amount, from what I remember, it is up to 5 million, but if you say it exactly, Minister... If the investment is more expensive, e.g. 15 million, 20 million - this is specifically about medical services, it is about centres of integration and culture, which are typically in the Pope's buildings - is such a conclusion also to be taken into account, or must it be costier (Dawn) only up to the upper limit of the amount? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Chezernaker again corresponds to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u142	Yes, in the first round we are talking about, the cost estimate of the project should be PLN 5 million. We have limited this because it should be first-needed investments, which we can also finance. As the Member pointed out, it will amount to PLN 5 million, so far as the municipalities can submit applications for up to three investments. A lot of questions affect MSWiA. I would like to thank those involved in the Department of Public Administration of the Ministry of Public Administration who answer the questions of local governments. Within two weeks of recruitment, we answered more than 400 questions that came from local governments. This shows how much investment needs are in these areas, how many questions. Questions are about various investments, from the smallest ones, the value of which is several hundred thousand zlotys, to actually million. I hope that the Government of Law and Justice will do its utmost to continue this programme to expand this programme, and the first stage will indeed give some guidance to the government. With regard to the recruitment that is currently underway, I am convinced that after that we will be able to point out where this programme needs to be extended, where it should be implemented more widely. The needs in these areas are extremely high and I am pleased that the first stage of this programme will be implemented. Already this year and the next year, because this is a 2-year cycle of accounting, it will be possible to implement these investments. At the same time, this will also allow small businesses in these areas, which today, in a pandemic era, are very often short of jobs, to develop so that people can work there so that workers do not have to be fired. Of course, this is one of the elements, but hopefully we will do everything we can to make this programme continue in the coming years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u143	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the next question. Members Michał Grammar, Konrad Frysztak and Maciej Lasek from the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition asks a question about the acquisition transaction of Poland Press by Orlen. Please, Mr Michał Grammar is the first.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the beginning of December Ub. Orlen announced the takeover of Poland Press. Controlled by the government, the company took over a lion's share of the free labour market and Internet portals in Poland. This transaction raises a lot of doubts not only in the context of the right of every democratic citizen of the state to free media, but also in the context of business. In accordance with Orlen's statutes, did the management of this company obtain permission from the supervisory board to acquire shares in Poland Press? Who created the business analysis and legal analysis of the validity of this transaction? What period of return and what rate of return did you accept for this investment? Orlen reported to the UOKiK's intent to concentrate. Mr Obajtek publicly explained that the investment is fundamental from the point of view of Orlen's 2030 strategy. Where is this strategy annotation that PKN Orlen is planning an acquisition in the media market? Where is the current report published in connection with this acquisition? If we take the MAR regulation on capital market abuse seriously, the publication of such a report should be the responsibility of PKN Orlen. Finally, does the Minister know about the pressure exerted by PKN Orlen on the editorial board of Rzeczpospolita? They led to the removal of Professor Michał Romanowski's column from the web pages. The acquisition of Poland Press by Orlen void by law. You shed tears over Donald Trump's blocked tweets, and in front of you, the state-owned company here in Poland is blocking the substantive discussion in free media. Which views are right and which are not, cannot be decided by the owners of corporate giants," said Prime Minister Morawiecki. Maybe he forgot to add that he only thinks it's right for him to be positive. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the current power. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u145	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Małecki is the Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u146	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The truth itself, the truth itself. Madam, please don't disturb me. State Secretary at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki: It is difficult to agree with such thesis, with another such strong attack on PKN Orlen in a situation when Orlen, when buying the Polish Press, fulfilled all his obligations, met the requirements. The company informed that the transaction was carried out in compliance with the laws and internal regulations in force in the company. Therefore, the acquisition agreement of the shares of Polska Press is valid and has no legal defects, in particular those which could result in its nullity. The agreement was prepared, negotiated and concluded with the support of specialised lawyers in this field. Orlen has asked the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection to accept the acquisition of the Polish Press and is now awaiting the decision of the UOKiK. With regard to the allegations made in the media, the allegations made here by the Platform concerning the alleged lack of corporate consent for the conclusion of the contract and the alleged annulment of the agreement as a result of non-compliance with the subject-matter of the company, with the constitution, the company states that the agreement to conclude the contract was expressed by the Supervisory Board in December. Whereas no laws or statutes of Orlen require the consent of the General Assembly to conclude such an agreement. It is also worth noting that the object of Orlen's activity includes among others. publishing newspapers. I'm sending you to § 2 (2) Point 67 of the Orlen Statute. Let me tell you more, this entry was not introduced before this transaction, this entry you introduced in 2010 when you were in charge. Back then, the Platform government had control of Orlen. But he didn't buy the papers. On the other hand, when it comes to buying newspapers, the country, when you were in charge, did other activities. In connection with the alleged pressure... To the point. ...at the "Rzeczpospolita" I recall a situation that might have had this mark. Mr. Marshal, this gentleman isn't talking about anything. But you asked me that. Why are you bothering me? State Secretary at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki: This is about the situation when government spokesperson Donald Tusk, state government, Mr Paweł Graś called here at the Sejm... About, the questions were... But that was in the question. Why are you bothering me? State Secretary at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki: ...at night, probably half past two a.m., the owner of the Rzeczpospolita who had previously... You don't answer questions. ..you sold the Rzeczpospolita. Other pressure on the media. After this conversation, the night talk under the trash can of government spokesperson Donald Tusk and the owner of the publishing house was avalanchely expelled journalists from these media. Next case. Your free media is a raid of the ABW officers at the newspaper editorial office... There's a sentence, there's a sentence. ...when they tried to rip out the chief's laptop, where he had materials that were inconvenient for the Civic Platform and Donald Tusk. Sentence. Media freedom according to the Platform is finally sending armed officers to a young man who dared to joke with President Bronisław Komorowski on the Internet in 2011. These are Platform standards. PKN Orlen records historical records today profit. Orlen earned PLN 25 billion for 4 years and 9 months under the rule of Law and Justice. What's the price of oil? Maybe that's why there are attacks on Orlen, with a special interest in personal attacks against President Daniel Obajtek. As regards the decision to publish the text mentioned by the state, the editors of the Polish Rzeczpospolita (the editor-in-chief of the Rzeczpospolita) and the editor of the on-line part, Mr Cezary Szymanek, spoke. And this information, which appears in the media, is that this text contained personal threads towards Orlen's president, who did not agree with the book styles of Rzeczpospolita. And here the Ministry of State Assets (the bell) does not have any plans or operating... Thank you, Minister. State Secretary at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki: ...in a way that doesn't affect the media, like in the days of the Platform. It's an influence on the media... Minister, thank you very much. Mr Konrad Frysztak asks an additional question... State Secretary at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki: Good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u147	... The Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I had great hope that if the Minister of State Assets came here, he would not play the role of party propaganda, but I was wrong. [[Applause]] I'm afraid you're not a journalist. I'm assuming you're not a press editor either, but you're a great reader. You've read the party message beautifully. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Orlen has made a lot of mistakes with this takeover. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have not answered any question raised by Mr Grammar about who and when he spoke to the shareholder, in what capacity these consents were given, if any. Sir, I'm a publisher, Minister Obajtek a journalist. President Obajtek - all I know about experience - studied in Radom in environmental school. I do not, of course, deprive him of this education, but a specific question: Why does it explain that buying a publishing house is to print invoices? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The invoice is low-input printing. Second line. Are you also planning... Thank you very much. Answers the Secretary of State at... ...taking over the groceries... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u149	... Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u150	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Either you weren't listening or you were listening, but you didn't understand. I listened and I didn't understand either. I explained the obligations of obtaining corporate consent in accordance with the Orlen Statute amended in the times of the Platform in 2010. Orlen, on the other hand, buying... An article. If you'd listened, you'd know, because I brought up a very specific article, but you were busy screaming in the O.R. That's not true. Please allow me to continue. Orlen is implementing a strategy in which he has written... Taking over the groceries. Then you take over the chocolate factory, and it's all for the price of oil. ...to reach out to new customers, acquire them and build new communication channels. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a request to... [[Game in the O.R.]] Why are you bothering me all the time? Because this gentleman's lying. But you're interrupting. Is there anything I can do to punish you? Why are you doing this? This is... Mr. Marshal, that is the idea of parliamentarians. It's rude not to answer questions. It's rude and rude that you're shouting from the gym. It's rude not to answer questions, Marshal, I'm sorry. But this is your opinion, and you can keep that opinion to yourself, but you can't make a noisy speech about it in the Seym. It's not just me. Then let the minister... The same goes for you. State Secretary at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki: Ladies and gentlemen! I answered your questions, explained the wording in the strategy, explained the corporate consents, while you, the opposition, especially the Platform hurts something else. Because when you were in charge, it was for 8 years when the gasoline was 6 zlotys, Orlen made just 2900 million zlotys, and for 4 years and 9 months of Law and Justice - 25 billion zlotys. How much is the oil? And gas doesn't cost 6 zlotys, gas doesn't cost 5 zlotys. What did you do with the money? How much is oil? What have you done with the money of Poles for fuel bought in Orlena under your rule... How much did the oil cost? As a historian, do you know how much a barrel of oil cost? You work at the Ministry of Assets. ...when the gasoline was six zlotys? Orlen earned 11 times less than four years and nine months of Law and Justice for eight years. Orlen led by President Daniel Obajtka by 100% increased expenditure on sport, by 700% increased the power of the Orlen Foundation, which supports various needs throughout Poland. Orlen makes record investments, record acquisitions. You wouldn't understand, because you were selling out Polish assets. During the Platform and PSL, even a company such as Orlen Security was tried to sell, a company whose people protect the most sensitive areas of the Polish state. You don't answer... You wouldn't understand, because the president of Orlen in the days of the Civic Platform laughed with Donald Tusk, that after the election Poles could pay for gas even 7 PLN. This is an officer. Today Orlen (The Bell) is built as a multi-energy company that will be resistant to... Get down on the ground, I suggest you get down on the ground. ...market turbulence, different situations in the macroeconomic market. Orlen, I'm going to stress this very strongly, in the times of law and justice he records historical records. profit. And why weren't those profits in your day? Oil was expensive. Because you tolerated a massive fuel mob and a gray area. 600 tanks with illegal fuel entered Poland every day. You're a historian, but you don't know history very well. Every tanker was a $40,000 loss. PLN for the Polish budget. This is the reason why you are irritated by the success of Orlen today, irritates the effective fight of the Polish state, the Government of Law and Justice with the pathology in the field of fuel. And Orlen during the pandemic, especially during the pandemic... He sold 100 zlotys of disinfectant. ...has shown how he supports Poles. Over 100 million PLN flowed from Orlen to support the fight against the pandemic, to support the protection of life and health of Poles. You will never understand this, because this is not what you followed during the reign of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u151	Thank you, Minister, thank you very much. We'll proceed with the next question. I think we've got a call from the entire Left Club. MEPs Krzysztof Gawkowski, Robert Obaz, Przemysław Koperski and many others ask about business restrictions. First, Mr Robert Obaz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u152	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On the basis of unthinkable decisions by the Prime Minister and the PiS Government, many industries that are in danger of bankruptcy have been closed and left unsupported. At the moment, the whole tourism, hotel, catering, cultural, recreation, fitness and all those who have provided services to these entrepreneurs and customers were over the financial divide. Laundry, bakery, farmers, massacres, taxi drivers, guides, ski rentals, carriers or persons engaged in single-person business activities, regardless of their activity. The losses now amount to millions of zlotys. People in these sectors are losing their jobs, and hence the only source of income. The consequences of your decision are tragedies and serious financial problems, unpaid loan instalments, unpaid leases, no possibility of paying bills for electricity, gas or rent. Whole families face major challenges today. The government does not take decisive action in terms of help, both employers and employees take away their dignity. Why in other European countries support is much greater, in some countries it is 100% Losing revenue? In Poland, the entrepreneur must prove, through complicated bureaucratic procedures, that he suffered a statutory loss. Will entrepreneurs finally receive aid schemes for fixed costs, repayment of loans, leasing payments and bank guarantees? What about employees who have no way of paying their current bills? Does your government realize that excluding ski slopes will bankrupt them? Today I invite everyone who does not believe to come to Szklarska Poręba, Karpacz, Świeradowa-Zdrój, to all those places where people lived only from tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u153	Thank you. The Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology, Mr Marek Niebżak, corresponds. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u154	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have before me data about the Polish economy, of course from sources such as the Ministry of Finance or the Polish Economic Institute, but also from sources completely independent of the Polish government. I want this to sound very clear: the Polish economy is one of the economies that is best able to deal with the pandemic among countries in Europe. We are in fourth place for Lithuania, Luxembourg and the Netherlands. We have very good prospects for this year and this is also seen in indicators that are made based on opinions of entrepreneurs, such as PMI. We've really given unprecedented help on an unprecedented scale. I do not know whether you are aware of this, and I would very much ask you to remember that, because there will be discussions in this Chamber in some time, for example on public finances, that so far aid of 7% has gone to entrepreneurs. GDP. And now, Mr President, if we were to discuss in such a substantive, peaceful way a difficult situation, because we all know that the situation in gastronomy or in hotels is extremely difficult, we are aware of it and this help... It is not true that the government leaves them without help, on the contrary, we are trying to offer new aid tools. An example from two days ago. The government adopted a regulation 2 days ago, which extends this aid from the so-called. the industrial shield for the following months, for the following areas and for the following entities, connected for example with the tourism industry. The cost of this aid on the side of public finances will be over PLN 5 billion. This is aid in such a form as ZUS exemption, parking, small grant, 5,000. PLN per company for micro- and small enterprises. That's not enough. There is also a point where I would really like to disagree very strongly with you. At the very beginning, the Member said that the government had arbitraryly taken and closed. I am aware of the tragic situation of these entrepreneurs, of how difficult this situation is. I know that for each of them, or for each of them individually, on a personal scale, it is a tragedy. I feel very sorry for these people, but you can't really say in a responsible way that these are decisions that the government sits down and starts to limit. Mr President, pay attention to how far-reaching restrictions are being introduced, for example, beyond our western border, with our neighbours, in Germany. There are closed restaurants, recreation centers, cultural facilities, retail. Private meetings are limited in such a way that you can only meet with one person outside your own household. In some lands - this is a federal state, there these restrictions sometimes differ between land - e.g. In Bavaria, the authorities are considering introducing a curfew throughout the country. In general, when you look at the list, let's call it the restrictiveness of policies adopted by individual countries, then Poland is not really at the forefront, it is not on the front. Such countries as Germany, Austria, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom are much more restrictive than I mentioned. These countries don't either because they're mean because they want to hurt someone. After all, we are in an absolutely emergency situation. I don't think it's an abuse to compare pandemics to a situation like war. There's a front. We all know that front line's in hospitals. We see these tragic reports every day. Unfortunately, it also means a tragedy, especially those who are sick and losing their lives. I realize that from the individual perspective of those entrepreneurs who have taken care of whether they run restaurants, hotels... They're feeling awfully hurt at this point, but it's not like you said the government took it and shut it down. You really can't talk about it like that. Nor can it be said that the government left them without help, because believe me, in history, let's say, III of the Polish Republic help on this scale - one hundred several dozen billion, almost 7% GDP or around 7% GDP - is absolutely unprecedented. Poland is also one of the countries that most support their entrepreneurs in the European Union when it comes to their attitude towards GDP. I would ask you very much to remember this in this difficult situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u155	Thank you very much. An additional question is asked by Mr Przemysław Koperski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In recent days, the police and health department have targeted micro-entrepreneurs from the catering industry from Cieszyn, Ustronia, Skoczów, Kęt, Pszczyna and Łodygowice, who have opened their restaurants as part of civil disobedience and, above all, due to the lack of real help from you. The three brothers in Cieszyn were assigned several dozen police officers who arrived in at least 10 police cars. Minimally smaller police forces invaded Greta's pizza shop in Skoczów and Tabia's pizza shop in Kęty. Minister, on what legal basis do you harass Polish family restaurants, pubs, bars? You did not bring about a natural disaster. Prime Minister! Stop this non-constitutional madness. Prime Minister, we invite you to Silesia Cieszyński, we invite you to Beskid Żywiecki for pizza, beer. Sit down, talk to the businessmen and tell them when you can open the slopes, restaurants, pubs, bars without fear of harassment by the police and the health department. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. Thank you. I'm done on time because I know you're very strict about it... Yes, sir. ...and you'd probably cut me off, Mr. Marshal. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u157	The Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology, Mr Marek Niebżak, corresponds. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u158	(PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you. I'm trying to follow these time frames, too. I think we should all respect each other's time. For my part, I always try to do the same. I don't think there's really any reason to make any slight pinches about it. Mr. Speaker! Let me put it this way: absolutely, I will say it again, I understand that for those people who own or operate this type of activity, the current situation is a personal tragedy, and I feel very sorry for them in human terms. On the other hand, I am unable to accept such a statement that we leave them without help. No, this aid flows and this aid has a really large scale, both in comparison with what the objective possibilities of Poland as a country are, compared to what I am saying, with our GDP as well as with other countries. Similarly, the restrictions that apply in Poland, in comparison with restrictions in other countries, are not particularly affected, as I say - in comparison with our neighbours, with Great Britain. What legal basis? You asked about the legal basis. You are aware, as I am, that the legal basis for these restrictions are the laws and regulations issued on the basis and within the framework of the authorisations contained in those laws. These laws are most often called COVID laws, disc laws. Generally speaking, these extraordinary laws, which are temporary in nature, are for the time of pandemic, for the time of pandemic threat. Therefore, as I said the first time, because of the extraordinary situation in which we are, the epidemic is unfortunately for the common good, which is generally simply stopping, stopping a pandemic and dealing with its consequences, we all have to accept the limitations, let's say, the way we live, the way we spend our time. I know that this is what affects these entrepreneurs very badly. They're getting help. I would also like to draw attention - recently, in the time limit, I did not have time to mention this - to new tools, for example for support, 1 billion PLN, for mountain communities. I know that it is in their area that the tourism industry is largely concentrated, which is now suffering so much. Minister, which law allows us to close the restaurant? Mr. President, let me... Legal basis - I think I have responded to this - these are laws and regulations, regulations. The aid is unprecedentedly high, both at European Union and at the level of the third Polish Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u159	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Mr Dariusz Klimczak from the Polish Coalition asks a question about plans for nationalization of Polish health services. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Information about the establishment in the Ministry of Health of the centralization concept of hospitals in Poland was a great shock, especially for democratic environments, especially for local self-government communities. The oil was added to the fire by Minister Niedzielski himself, who said that the county hospitals would go to the first fire when these changes were carried out. Therefore, today, on behalf of the Polish Coalition, I need to ask some fundamental questions. In addition, I will ask specific questions, but I would like the Minister to provide information on what conceptual stage the team is working today, on what legal acts it is based on, what time schedule it provides for these changes and when they will be presented in concrete terms. In our view, this is not a substantive decision, but a political decision, especially since you already have experience in centralising certain institutions, including health systems, for example. Health care or NFZ. How has the health department improved since the governor didn't appoint a county inspector, but a voivodship official? Tell me. I think the epidemic has verified it perfectly. We think it's an art breach. 15 constitution, which expresses one of the fundamental principles of our state, the principle of decentralisation of public authority in the country. On the other hand, I would like to rely on concrete details, for example from my Łódź voivodship. If we were waiting for the decision of the Ministry, Warsaw on oncology, to this day we would not have had a positron emission tomography or cyclotron, we would only be relying on a rental from a private PET company at the MMA hospital. The same for cardiac surgery - to this day there would be no alternative cardiac surgery if it hadn't been for the decision of the local government to put some money in. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm gonna ask the other questions as an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u161	Thank you. Responsible for the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Sławomir Gadomski. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u162	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it's too early for details. I think that the fact that the health minister of the team has set up some solutions to define some of the goals that are ahead of us, to analyse the different options for implementing such a hospital reform, and these are the goals that we have just outlined, does not entitle us to do so yet, and so please do not expect to have an answer today to the specific questions as we plan. Currently, some analytical work is being carried out at the Ministry of Health on the various possible variants of such comprehensive and systemic solutions for the restructuring and development of the hospital sector. I think that today the public gets to the public often either fragmented or sometimes false information, and certainly premature. Certainly premature, because, as I say, the team was set up on 23 December, in fact the first meeting was held at the end of December, so far there have been three meetings of the team and probably an important part of the working meetings. What exactly are we trying to draw on them? In particular, we want to outline the objectives of such a reform, we want to outline possible solutions for restructuring hospitals and restructuring their debt, a certain consolidation of the hospital sector. Here, too, we say that one of the tools for this is ownership transformations. This is probably not an exceptionally new idea - the mere harmonisation or reduction of the number of bodies that create today gives our sense and conviction some effects to manage health needs in a uniform, standardised way in a given area. Today, cases are common, and I think that most hospital directors are able to say something about it, that in several counties, in the sub-region political agreement, the substantive agreement between the bodies creating these entities is impossible. What does that lead to? This leads to duplication of ranges, leading to the fact that every hospital in this country wants to be a high-specialist hospital, that every hospital wants to carry out a full range of services, even though it is counterproductive from a financial and financial point of view, and the quality of diagnostic and therapeutic processes. We are well aware that, as long as we talk about six or seven different owners, creating bodies, in many places in Poland there will be no expected effect from the point of view of many medical market experts and hospital directors, i.e. there will be no certain reprofile, there will be no consolidation. Many directors are already signaling today, and I had some meetings with directors and representatives of counties, a simple fact: getting along, establishing a common policy is impossible, so some centralization, even the word came up: nationalization... Today hospitals are state-owned in the vast majority. If we're talking about hospitals online, they're already state-owned today, they're just different from the body that makes up them: whether they're resort hospitals or self-government hospitals or clinical hospitals. We believe deeply that centralization, to a certain level, is needed, and the options are considered differently. We are not talking about the government that the health resort will own all hospitals, we analyse various options, options such as voivodships, options such that it will actually be resort, options such that they could be marshals of voivodships. There are several options, and I think we will present them in the near future, but I also ask the Member and everyone to be patient. The idea we have adopted today is to prepare the objectives of this reform by 28 February. At the beginning of March, I think we will be ready to make these assumptions publicly and discuss them. We also assumed that by 31 May we would prepare a bill, which we would also like to consult and discuss. The team's work is attended mainly by representatives of organizations building or defining a health care system: the Ministry of Health, the National Health Fund, but also external experts. Here we use the help of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, the Industrial Development Agency, also some solutions for the professionalization of the supervision of hospital owners, the implementation of really high standards in force e.g. in the financial sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u163	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, now for an additional question by Mr Dariusz Klimczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u164	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! This team clearly lacks local government, hence the question: Are you going to take into account this demand of the local government community to invite local government representatives to this team? The second case - if the problem is competing hospitals among themselves, we will not settle this by introducing one owner, because in each province the marshal has several dozen, dozens of hospitals and these hospitals also compete among themselves. Unifying the owner won't do any good. On the other hand, if this is the beginning of your work, I would like to draw attention to issues that are specific and difficult for you to answer, including. In some voivodships investment companies have been established, which on the basis of bonds carry out several hundred million investments. How do you intend to take over this property and enter into the activities of such companies? So that's like, uh... there are hospitals, which in part belong to the local government, and in part to private owners (the bell), because they operate as companies. How do you want to take over? Do you want to pay or take it for free? Such detailed questions are really very, very many. If there were locals on the team, it would probably be a discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u165	Thank you. Mr Sławomir Gadomski again corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u166	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! Those are the right questions. I absolutely agree with them. These are the questions that we are trying to answer as part of this team's work. Are we formally required to be a member of a team of county representatives? At this stage, we assumed that a narrow team was working on it. As I say, we will not hide either the assumptions or the legal act, the bill from the public, from all the stakeholders. We'll consult widely. Working today I met with representatives of the board of the Polish Districts Association, with representatives of the board of the Polish Cities Association, I held a meeting with representatives of the Polish Voivodship Association. These were working meetings at which we have just discussed potential problems, including those which you have presented here, namely indeed those for which we have an external hospital operator, but also many other options. It goes on for example. about hospitals run in the form of a company of o.o. or the SPOZ, which work on local government property. This is also the option we're looking at. What solutions can be proposed in such a situation? Would this be a solution for taking over property, or would it be a multi-annual lease from a local government unit? We are working on solutions to such problems. I also had less working meetings with representatives of the Polish Districts Association and the Polish Towns Association at the beginning of February. I think that as part of the work of this team I will also meet representatives of the Marshals' Convention or the association of voivodships. We don't want to hide this reform. We want her to be a consensus and respond to needs that are obvious. We know today's power doesn't help hospitals. That's for sure, and we have a lot of examples. At the beginning of March we will show what they cause. We believe that at the same time... We are not talking about a change in ownership in this reform. I don't want to flatten this reform just for this. We are also talking about a certain systemic, quite different approach to debt restructuring so far. We are talking about the implementation of certain mechanisms that force more quality of management in hospitals. We are talking about a certain reorganisation of the system, which we also want to introduce as part of the modification or reorganisation of the hospital network. So that the approach is far beyond the change of ownership structure. We want to present the assumptions of a comprehensive hospital reform. Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u167	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Barbara Nowacka, Agnieszka Pomaska, Sławomir Nitras and Zbigniew Konwiński from the Civic Coalition ask a question about support for coastal tourist communities. The first question is asked by Barbara Nowack.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Polish entrepreneurs are in crisis. There are entrepreneurs and people working in the crisis. On December 21st, the tourist industry from Pomerania, from coastal regions, asked for help and support. Its representatives are in an increasingly poor financial situation, they cannot afford to operate, and broken shields, PCD-type criteria, lack of adequate financial security and state aid make their functioning and functioning of the labour market very vulnerable in the future. On 11 January Minister Gowin left and promised to support, but only for the tourism industry in mountain regions. We ask: where is law and justice here? How is the owner of the hotel, the lift and the bar by the sea different from the one in the mountains? Both in the same way prepared themselves for difficult sharpenings, adapted to the requirements of COVID. Especially the owners of the lifts, who have been informed that they will be able to function, will be able to work. Turns out those of Sopot won't be able to, and those of Zakopane will be able to. We would like to ask for an explanation and a very concrete answer to the question: When will entrepreneurs working in the tourism industry from the seaside and from all over Poland expect the same support? What criteria influenced the decision that, for example, The seaside support belt won't get it? Were these political criteria or any other criteria? Because a person working on a lift, living out of it during the winter season, has the right to ask you to answer the question of what is worse, in which his company is worse than the same company, operating on similar company rules, which is similarly adapted in mountain regions. When can entrepreneurs, local governments and people working from coastal communities and from all over Poland working in the tourism industry expect to extend their support to the whole sector? We demand a simple thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's called economic patriotism. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u169	Thank you. The Secretary of State of the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology, Mr Andrzej Gut-Mostowy, is responsible.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Messengers, In view of the impact of the pandemic on the finances of local governments, the government is taking measures to provide financial support for local government units. On the basis of Resolution No 102 of the Council of Ministers of 23 July Ub. on support for the implementation of investment tasks by local government units, these units will receive additional funds from the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund. They will be able to be used for investments, including as own contribution to projects financed by the budget of the European Union. The amount of funds was set at PLN 12 billion. In addition, the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund will also allocate PLN 250 million to municipalities for investments carried out in locations where national agricultural enterprises operated. It also successfully allocates funds from the individual reserve for the financing of tasks related to the eradication of infections, the prevention of spread, prevention and eradication of the effects of an infectious disease caused by SARS-CoV-2, including, but not limited to, SARS-CoV-2. for local government units for the purchase of medical equipment. I move on to the issue of support provided for the local authorities of mountain communities. Additional support for mountain municipalities was introduced by Resolution No 6 of the Council of Ministers of 12 January 2021 amending the resolution on support for the implementation of investment tasks by local government units. This regulation provides for investment support for mountain municipalities in the total amount of PLN 1 billion for investment purchases or investments in public tourism infrastructure and municipal infrastructure related to tourist services. The implementation of the above regulations was based, inter alia. analysis of the rotation of ski stations. The data obtained from ski stations associated with the Polish Ski and Tourist Stations indicate that in the last season average turnover of the ski industry amounted to about PLN 450-500 million. This is the average over the last 3 years. Taking into account the data obtained from the tourism survey, which show that expenditure on the ski service, on passes, represents about 1/3 of the consumer expenditure of a given tourist, it can be said that the so-called. winter tourism in the southern runway covers an amount of more than PLN 1 billion. This is 1 billion PLN, which of course was in the tourism industry, but some revenues were also transferred to local government units. Therefore, considering this aspect, given that the winter season lasts about 90 days, total turnover in the amount of more than PLN 1 billion so-called. as part of winter tourism, they are not comparable in terms of tourist services, to turnover in any other region of Poland. Of course, it is undisputed that tourism in all regions of Poland has been experiencing difficult, even dramatic moments for months. This also applies to coastal regions, the Mazury region. Therefore, the aim of the aid, which is directed both to the industry and to local authorities, is not to compensate for lost income, because it is impossible, it is only support that will allow the industry to survive, and in the case of mountain communities it will allow to implement those investments that were planned and cannot be realised due to lost revenue. As we stress, these investments have a very important economic aspect, they are included in a country's economic policy, which assumes that the state must play an active role in the fight against the crisis. By creating infrastructure investments, public investment, the state strongly stimulates economic development and allows the economy to emerge slowly from the crisis. Referring to the question about support for the tourism industry, I have very good information for applicants. It was on Tuesday that additional PKD codes, hotel codes, guesthouses - 55.20 - tourist agents, tour operators and many other sectors of the economy were passed to the Council of Ministers by regulation. an industrial shield. Additional support within the Industrial Shield (Bell) is fundamental, although it is still important to consider that the basic support instrument is PFR 2.0, which gives fundamental support to the tourism and hotel industry. I would like to stress that the PFR 1.0 shield was well rated by all sectors of the tourism industry, including guesthouses and hotels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u171	Thank you very much, Minister. An additional question is asked by Agnieszka Pomaska. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u172	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Well, you're soaping our eyes out here. First of all, you did not answer the question of why some regions of the country are treated better than others, why some entrepreneurs are treated worse than others. I will point out that in Pomerania there are among others. ski slopes such as slope in the Tower-Koszałków, slope in Sopot, unique, with sea view, slope in Przeświadcz. In what ways are owners and entrepreneurs operating there worse than those operating in mountain areas? Minister, municipalities in the north and entrepreneurs in these municipalities have not received support and support. The costs shall be the same. I'll tell you one story, it's a paradox. On Monday at the ski slope in Sopot I met an artist entrepreneur who has a gallery. He came to ride a snowboard on a closed slope, [[♪ The bell ♪]] 'Cause he can't run his business. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u173	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Gut-Mostowy once again corresponds to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u174	Dear Marshal, (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to correct the incorrect information that you have provided. There is no differentiation of entrepreneurs in any of the instruments supporting the tourism industry. Neither the industry shield nor the PFR shield have any differentiation in terms of regions in terms of aid support. This is, to put it mildly, the fundamental inaccuracies that you have set out here. There are no instruments that support, as far as targets intended for the tourism industry are concerned, which regionally differentiate different sectors. If we are talking about support for mountain communities, then the resolution of the Council of Ministers has taken into account those lost revenues which I have already mentioned, i.e. more than PLN 1 billion during the 90-day winter season, which these municipalities have lost as a result of the closure of strictly only and exclusively the so-called industry. winter tourism. We are aware that there are some centres outside the mountain regions, which have sometimes presented winter tourism as an offer, but we are aware that in the vast majority this aid is dedicated properly. Thank you. What kind of answer is that? That's what's wrong with it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u175	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Waldemar Andzel, Agnieszka Soin and Jarosław Krajewski from Law and Justice will ask a question about Polish medical assistance for other countries. The first question is asked by Mr Waldemar Andzel.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki announced that 200 Polish doctors and representatives of medical services will go to Slovakia, where they will help in the testing process at COVID-19. This is not the first Polish aid action for other countries. I would like to ask: To which countries has Poland addressed medical assistance since the start of the pandemic, how many Polish doctors and representatives of medical services have been sent to foreign aid and is the Ministry in possession of information about in-kind aid addressed to other countries? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u177	Thank you very much. The Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible for Mr Marcin Przydacz. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's been almost a year since we've all learned about an unidentified virus, the threat it's causing. The scale of the challenges we have been facing since then is well known to the Members. The problems we face not only in Poland have not had precedent over the last few decades. It is with greater pride that I would like to report that Poland has passed its international solidarity test during this difficult period. Despite the difficult situation and many challenges that we have all encountered, as soon as it became clear that we are dealing with a pandemic, which is a global challenge, which is common throughout the world, we have started not only reflection, but also actions aimed at integrating Poland into the global action to combat pandemics. The aid was primarily granted according to the key to needs. First of all, we have offered, as you probably know very well, to help European countries, the most affected by the pandemic. A few days after the outbreak of the pandemic in Italy, the Polish government sent a group of 15 Polish doctors and doctors to the region with the most difficult situation, to Lombardy, where they were helping their Italian colleagues. A few days later, nine doctors went to the United States, Chicago, for the same purpose. After their return they shared their knowledge and experience not only with their colleagues in Poland, but also conducted a series of training courses for their colleagues, counterparts from the Eastern Partnership countries. It's at the first wave of Cortox. At the second wave, we also dealt with the activity of Polish medics. It is worth mentioning, for example, the crisis in Dover, where thousands of people are stuck, unable to cross the British-EU border. Also then the Prime Minister decided to send a group of Polish doctors, doctors, paramedics and Polish Army to support his British partners in the testing process. Recently, as mentioned by the Member, at the request of the Slovak side, we have sent 200 doctors to assist the Slovaks in screening tests. We also made a similar offer to the German side. Polish doctors could support border hospitals at that time. The German side thanked for this generous gesture. At the same time, she reported that she was doing well with her own resources for the time being. The question concerned Polish activity in the international arena in the context of aid. It is worth mentioning, of course, the action "Fly home," during which besides tens of thousands of Poles, which we managed to download from the farthest corners of the world, also more than 2 thousand. Foreigners from nearly 40 countries benefited from this action so that they could return to their homelands at this difficult time. For example, aid actions to attract foreign nationals from either South America or the Middle East or South-East Asia can be an example. At the same time, we also provided in-kind assistance, recognising that epidemics do not know borders. This was an expression not only of our solidarity, but also of our prevention and willingness to become involved in the whole of the world's fight against pandemics. Thanks to Polish aid several humanitarian convoys were organized: two humanitarian convoys in Belarus, the Western Balkans, Ukraine, Moldova and the countries of the South Caucasus. I pay particular attention to this giant humanitarian convoy that we gave to Belarus in the spring. It was dozens of trucks filled with medical equipment filled with drugs, antiseptics or personal protective equipment. Similarly, thanks to cooperation with companies of the State Treasury, with Polfa Tarchomin, with Orlen, with other important Polish companies, we managed to transfer similar aid also to Italy, to Spain at this difficult time. This shows how well-functioning companies of the Treasury are needed in the Polish state's policy. The question was also about what other countries we were providing assistance in. The list is long, but it is worth mentioning, for example, Georgia, Moldova, Kazakhstan (The Bell), Uzbekistan, Azerbaijan and Armenia. We also did not forget the smallest ones - also e.g. San Marino received over 5,000 from us. And antiseptic fluid, similarly the Holy See, who gave these funds to help the poorest. Of course, these actions will continue. If necessary, in case of requests for support, the Polish government is ready to fight the pandemic of Coronavirus together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u179	Thank you very much. Mr Waldemar Andzel asks an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u180	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you very much for this help, which Poland has jointly and severally provided to others in this difficult situation. It is extremely important that we solidarity and this help is. I also have an additional question: Did Poland receive any medical or material assistance from other countries during the pandemic of Coronavirus COVID-19? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u181	Thank you. Mr Marcin Przydcz again responds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As I pointed out, Poland was primarily trying to help those who were doing worse, in which the pandemic hit in a very strong way, those countries that could not cope with their own resources. I think it should be a reason for all of us to be proud that during these difficult moments the Polish state passed the exam with its own means, both in terms of health care and in terms of the demand for equipment, personal protection elements. Of course, at the very beginning, in those first days, weeks, for example from the People's Republic of China, proposals for support for masks, a number of other countries were also helpful in joint efforts to purchase these masks or personal protective equipment. In the first weeks of the pandemic there was a huge demand for this equipment in the world. Mostly it was produced in Asia, these purchases had to be made in these large Asian economies. And here, with the effort of Polish diplomacy, but also with good cooperation with Asian partners, we managed to purchase these things, as well as semi-finished products for Polish medicines in India, China, Vietnam. Vietnamese society living in Poland also offered help in the purchase of masks. These small elements were a few, but the most important conclusion should be that the Polish State managed with its own resources, there was no urgent need to obtain support from external partners. Of course, I hope that in the future, in the near future, we will be able to fight the pandemic as soon as possible, it will go down into history and there will be no need for this kind of action. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u183	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, Ms Anna Pieczarek and Mr Barbara Bartus from Law and Justice ask a question about the current situation on the labour market. The first question is asked by Mrs Józef Rzczurek-Żelazko.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u184	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The pandemic that we've been struggling with for a dozen or so years has brought us new challenges. Today, during this debate, we have repeatedly addressed the various aspects of this pandemic, which we face as a state, as citizens. We know that, in view of the fact that restrictions on virus transmission have been applied, some of the workplaces unfortunately had to suspend or reduce their activities or change their form. I'm sure this has affected the labour market. We also know that the government has been taking rapid action since the start of the pandemic to prevent, for example, growing unemployment in this area. We know that more than 175 billion PLN has been invested, which has contributed to entrepreneurs, among others. to maintain jobs. These measures were provided in various forms and the aim of this project was the maximum protection of jobs. In this connection, we have a question to the Minister: What is the current situation in the labour market, how it is shaped in different areas, in different sectors, and what has been the impact of these measures which have been passed on to businesses within different sectors of the national economy, on the reduction of the negative effects of the pandemic?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u185	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State of the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology, Ms Iwona Michalek, is responsible. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u186	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Messengers, Indeed, the whole world is struggling with the effects of COVID-19 in many dimensions and Poland could not avoid the consequences of this situation. However, the Polish labour market has relatively mildly responded to the pandemic restrictions, which on the one hand encouraged the very well-being of the economy, including the labour market before the emergence of Coronavirus, and on the other hand, the enormous importance was the actions which, as the Member mentioned, the government took to protect jobs. I would like to remind you that just before the pandemic, the number of employees, including permanent workers, was steadily increasing, and unemployment, also recorded, was historically low. Employee salaries also increased. In fact, there were often voices that we were dealing with the employee market, and employers were struggling with the problems of staff shortages. In this situation at the beginning of ub. We have faced the challenge of effectively reducing the potential risks associated with the epidemic. The first moods of both employers and economists were not optimistic. Analysts predicted mass redundancies, and forecasts of registered unemployment pointed to two-digit values. The expected negative effects of the restrictions that the government had to put in place in the current situation have not, fortunately, been confirmed in reality. According to Eurostat's latest figures in November 2020. Poland was still, after the Czech Republic, the second country in the European Union with the lowest unemployment rate, reaching a harmonised unemployment rate of 3.3%. At the same time, this indicator in the European Union was 7.5%. The first forecasts of the European Commission have also been verified in our favour. Of course, the labour market will be affected by the current situation, but after the expected unemployment rate rises to 5.3% in 2021, the European Commission expects a fall of 4.1%. In 2022, therefore, the Polish labour market proved to be very resistant to pandemic problems. Poland belongs to the countries of the European Union with the best results in this regard. Data from the survey of economic activity of the population carried out by the Central Statistical Office indicate that in the third quarter of 2020 the situation on the labour market in Poland caused by the pandemic began to stabilise. In the third quarter of 2020, the number of active workers increased compared to the second quarter, while the number of inactive persons decreased. The employment rate of the working-age population thus increased to 77.9%. Although, following the announcement of the spring lockdown, the registered unemployment rate increased, which was usually not the case during this period, but remained stable from June to November 2020, i.e. for six months - 6.1%. And the estimated figure at the end of 2020 is 6.2% That's really not much. Thus, the increase in this component in December 2020 did not differ from what we have seen in previous years. In December, the unemployment rate also increased by 0.1%. And so did last year. As in February 2020, the most unemployed were among sellers, cooks, economic workers, auxiliary construction workers, locksmiths, hairdressers, economists, bricklayers, tailors, warehousekeepers or car mechanics. In total, unemployed people performing one of these 11 professions represented as many as 1/4 of all registered unemployed and the situation looked similar before the outbreak of the pandemic, so really little has changed. Government-led measures to protect jobs have certainly contributed to reducing [[♪ The bell ♪]] the scale of the proposed redundancies. I just want to repeat, confirm that, with these instruments, we have protected 6.6 million jobs. That's a lot. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u187	Thank you, Minister. Now the additional question is asked by Mrs Barbara Bartus.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u188	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Speaking of unemployment, we must remember at what time we are - in a pandemic that affects not only the economy, the fact that there are objective difficulties, but also the pandemic affects the psyche of Poles, all of us. In addition, the media empathize with how many people will be fired, scare. A lot of people are afraid of losing their jobs. We have experience from previous years, from previous crises, but also remember, many of us remember the 1990s, how difficult it was to get a job. Therefore, this fear of men is not surprising. Minister! Does the pandemic actually have such a big impact? Do you have an overview of how unemployment growth looked in different voivodships? Does it have anything to do with anything? Or, for example, in individual voivodships there were more diseases and there also more people lost their jobs (the bell), is it absolutely unrelated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u189	The Secretary of State of the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology, Ms Iwona Michalek, is again responsible.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u190	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Ladies and gentlemen! Well, there isn't one. According to our information, what you're asking me is whether a pandemic has an impact on the rise in unemployment... Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to Poland - you asked about the voivodship - the biggest unemployment at the moment is in Warmia-Mazurski, that is 10.1% and the lowest unemployment - 3.7% - in Wielkopolska. I do not remember the data on morbidity, but from what I recall even from media information, and from what the Minister of Health has always reported, the greatest incidence was in Mazowieckie, Wielkopolskie, Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodships from which I come. I mean, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, you know, like, you know, you know, like, you 5.2% , here was a relatively large amount when it comes to morbidity. In Wielkopolska - 3,7% As I said, and they always said that in Wielkopolska the incidence is high. In Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, from which I come, I live, unemployment 8.8% Which means there's no... We don't see any connection between the incidence and the rise in unemployment. According to our analyses, the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology, there are no such relationships, Mrs, Members, and we are doing everything we can to reduce this unemployment very much, and it is evident that this is happening. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u191	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Members of Lydia Burzyńska, Joanna Borowiak and Anna Milczanowska from Law and Justice are asking about the program The Solidarity Corps of Senior Support. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska is the first question to be asked. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u192	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Everyone should protect themselves from coravirus infection, but older people should be particularly protected, therefore the concern for the weakest, those who are not always able to cope alone, is a real manifestation - I stress: true - social solidarity, which should be characterised by every society. The pandemic period has shown how important this inter-human, inter-institutional, inter-generational solidarity is. In order to ensure this solidarity, a government programme was created, a Solidarity Corps to support seniors, which involves helping to deliver the necessary products to seniors' homes in order to reduce the need for older people to go outside during a pandemic due to their safety. Local social assistance centres implement a programme in municipalities for the organisation and delivery of first-needed articles to older people. This program can be used by people aged 70 or over. In special cases, assistance can be given to a person before the age of 70, namely solidarity, this assistance, that includes the needy, and not just a metric limitation. Therefore, Minister, I have questions: Have all municipalities benefited from the possibility of helping senior citizens in this form? Second: What was the amount of funds allocated for this purpose, with particular emphasis on Silesian, Kujawsko-Pomorskie and Łódź voivodships? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u193	Thank you very much. Mr Stanisław Szwed, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u194	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for your questions about the Solidarity Corps of Senior Support, but also within the framework of the 'Support Senior' programme. Maybe I'll start by raising questions about our government's policy against seniors in this very difficult situation, the fight against the coronavirus. We did everything we could to keep our seniors safe, the decisions we made, that's what they were meant to do. Yesterday we were looking at two very good projects concerning 14 pensions and valorization, which is the direct material support of our seniors. We have already guaranteed the 13th pension and funds that will be addressed to our seniors this year, that is almost 35 billion PLN. This is material support for our seniors, which during this period of fight against the coronavirus is of particular importance. I am also very pleased that the programmes that have been developed, prepared and implemented by our seniors in the Ministry of Family and Social Policy - whether it's the ASOS programme, the social activity of the elderly, or the programme that is aimed at local governments - worked despite the restrictions, despite all the actions we have taken to make it safe. We can say today that these programmes have also taken action, in a slightly different form, in the form of direct meetings, but I also think that thanks to the initiative of many people who support seniors, these programmes have been implemented. As regards the "Solidarity Corps of Senior Support," this initiative was launched last year, we implemented the programme in October last year. The program was intended to help the oldest in basic activities. We know that during this period there were also sharpenings, especially for seniors, so we adopted a program that was supposed to serve people over the age of 70 who could through a special hotline - and here I will remind you of the number, because he is still active today: 22 505 11 11 - call, the consultant passed information to the social assistance centre, which had already done these activities to the senior through a group of volunteers. And that was also, I think, the second very important issue, the creation of a corps of solidarity volunteers. Today we have over 12,000. persons submitted to this programme and more than 250 youth organisations. Here I would particularly like to emphasise the role of youth organisations which have been involved in this aid scheme. I think young people... Such an intergenerational bond is very important in this mutual assistance, a bond with our seniors, especially since today we celebrate grandmother's feast, tomorrow's grandpa's feast, so that, by the way, I wish all our grandmothers and grandparents dear wishes, because this is also an opportunity to give these wishes today. More than 27,000 have benefited from this program, which can be dedicated to senior citizens, from helping them make purchases. people, and the program is still active. We are also launching an additional operation under this programme, in the case of vaccination. Those who do not have the ability to register or have difficulties with this can request the volunteer's assistance by the consultant. We also have the so-called. e-voluntary, we have over 300 people who are involved, and these people can help too. Of course, it has to be the senior's consent, because you have to give his data and you can also, by doing this activity, register this senior. So that this action that we are introducing as part of the senior support corps is important. She asked for specific data. In 2020, 2053 municipalities joined the programme, i.e. 82% all municipalities in the country. The amount that we provided for these activities for municipalities amounted to PLN 100 million was used 70 million. The Śląskie Voivodeship, which you asked about - 12 million PLN, the voivodship of Kujawsko-Pomorskie - 4600 thousand PLN. PLN and Łódź Voivodship - 895 thousand. zł. This year, in 2021, we already have funds allocated to this action in the amount of PLN 50 million and, of course, the transfer process is already underway. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u195	Thank you very much. The additional question is asked by Mrs Joanna Borowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u196	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, Of course, we join the best wishes for grandmothers and grandparents. These two beautiful holidays come this week: Grandma and Grandpa. Everything that's best. Minister! Thank you for the comprehensive answer to the question. I would like to ask you about an urgent, extremely important matter at the moment, which is the protection of the health of seniors. I'm talking about an ongoing vaccination operation. The vaccinations are ongoing, the registration of seniors is also ongoing, but for the time being, there are already inmates of social services homes. In group zero were vaccinated DPS employees, now the vaccination of the pensioners has begun. I wanted to ask the Minister how the process of vaccination against the coronavirus is going on in social services. I'll ask for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u197	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Minister Stanisław Szwed, is again responsible.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u198	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You are Minister Michał Dworczyk, he would be more competent when it comes to vaccination, because he oversees and coordinates it. But as far as the DPS is concerned, if the Minister says so, I'm gonna give you some information because we're getting updates here. Let me remind you that as part of our national vaccination program, we had two groups. The first group consisted of DPS employees and round-the-clock units, they were in a zero group. This process is practically, you can say, at the end, unless there were some special situations. As far as the pensioners are concerned, in this respect we had written in the program that the pensioners would be vaccinated in the first group, but thanks to the decisions of our government this group was vaccinated earlier. We started the vaccination of social workers' homes and round-the-clock units on January 18th. We should be done with this by tomorrow. According to the information I have, from today, there are already 80% in each DPS vaccine. persons who have made themselves known and who have made themselves known more than 70%. I think that's very good information, too, because we know that at the beginning of our action, those people who came forward were less. There's over 70%. reported, more than 80% vaccinated, so we hope that this process will be completed by tomorrow. If one of the DPSes, so to speak, doesn't do so, the most common reason is that there are other people infected, and then these vaccinations are not carried out. So that as far as DPSs are concerned, round-the-clock facilities, this process is running smoothly. And here, with the DPS issue, it is also worth noting that mobile centers are coming to the DPS and they are vaccinating the residents on the spot, which means there is no need to transport or transport, and that, as I think, was our very good decision. So that both the staff and the pensioners are vaccinated. We know this is a group that was very vulnerable. Today this situation is stable, and after vaccination we will be able to be sure that in DPS or round-the-clock units this situation will be really good. So that in this respect I can say so much more here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u199	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Mariusz Trepek, Ewa Malik and Wojciech Szarama from Law and Justice will ask a question about aid in the development of agricultural services. The question is asked by Mariusz Trepek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u200	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! Supporting the development of agricultural services in rural areas is an important issue for the Government of Law and Justice. In the case of the "Entrepreneurship' programme, the development of agricultural services has been postponed to 15 February this year. Companies that already provide services to farmers can benefit from support so that they can develop their activities. The amount of funding that can be obtained is up to PLN 0.5 million. It is worth taking advantage of these measures and I encourage all companies that operate in the area of agriculture to use them. But, my dear Minister, I would like to ask you this: Where can these applications be submitted and what documents will be needed? Who can specifically request this support and what is refundable? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u201	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Bartosik, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, is responsible. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u202	Dear Marshal, Ministers! Membership! The program has been launched. Proposals for this task can, of course, be submitted to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. Aid application accompanied by supporting documentation such as a business plan whether the applicant's statements needed are made in the regional branch of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture, which is appropriate due to the place of implementation of the operation. The application shall be submitted either personally or by an authorised person. Documents may also be submitted in the form of an electronic document. In one year only one aid application may be submitted for an entity applying for support. Forms for aid applications, model annexes such as a business plan and declarations shall be made available by the Agency on the website administered by it, no later than the day on which the notice of receipt of aid applications is made public. The aid application shall be completed in accordance with the instructions which shall also be given. Information on the type of operation: entrepreneurship development, development of agricultural services under sub-measures: support for investments in the creation and development of non-agricultural activities covered by the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014 to 2020 are provided at information points of the county offices of restructuring agencies. High Izbo! Who can apply for help? Aid may be requested in accordance with the provisions of the implementing regulation issued by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development by natural persons, legal persons or organisational units not having legal personality which, as micro- or small enterprises, carry out an economic activity involving the provision of services listed in the Annex to the Regulation of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development for sub-measures. These applicants must be able to carry out the operation, achieve its objective. They must carry out an economic activity of at least one of the activities set out in the Annex to the Regulation of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development for sub-measures for a period of at least 2 years preceding the date of submission of the aid application. This period shall also include the period of suspension of the activity. The applicant must have an identification number assigned under the provisions of the national producer registration system, the farm records and the records of payment applications. An application for economic activity shall be deemed to have been met if, during the last 24 months preceding the date of submission of the aid application, the applicant carries out at least one of the economic activities listed in Annex 1 to the Implementing Regulation of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development in the National Court Register. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and document the VAT invoice or the printout of a fiscal receipt for the performance of agricultural services of at least 20 000. zł. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u203	Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question is asked by Mariusz Trepek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u204	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Thank you for your reply, but I would like to ask you two more questions. What amount is foreseen for this action and how many applications have already been submitted? Will the Ministry have such data today, or will it only be at the time when all applications and recruitment are submitted, or will the Ministry know exactly how many of these applications have been submitted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u205	Thank you. Mr Ryszard Bartosik again corresponds to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u206	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We do not have this data because, as you know, the programme has been extended and, once the possibility of submitting applications has been completed, we will of course make this data available. I just wanted to confirm that the amount of funding is up to PLN 0.5 million, we refund 50% those costs, and the trader who provides services to other farmers, included as an economic operator, may benefit from these measures. We invite you to submit proposals. All those who apply will be supported. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u207	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the next question. Cezary Tomczyk, Iwona Hartwich, Katarzyna Lubnauer, Małgorzata Tracz and Joanna Jaśkowiak from the Civic Coalition ask a question about the national vaccination programme. The first question is asked by Małgorzata Tracz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u208	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The national vaccination programme as a central strategic objective of Poland has identified the achievement of the level of vaccination of the population, which will allow for the control of the pandemic of Coronavirus by the end of 2021. However, there are a lot of doubts about the identification of priority groups. It should be two groups of people. First of all, those who are fighting a pandemic on the front line, which is essential for health care: doctors, nurses, medical and salon rescues, second of all, people who are particularly vulnerable to severe illness: seniors and chronic patients. And here I have some specific questions for the Minister. Have all doctors, nurses, paramedics and saloons been vaccinated as part of stage zero? We know it's about 600,000. people in Poland have been vaccinated, and the number of key medical personnel who operate on the first line of the fight against the pandemic is 450,000. persons. Another question. How could it be allowed that seniors are in line under the POZs to register for vaccinations? Why was there no longer a proper system in place on 1 January that would determine the order according to age criteria? These senior queues under the POZs are and will be an image of the shame and despair of the Polish state, which could not organize this process well. Another question. Why is the order of vaccination decided by the lobby of individual ministries in the government? What are the reasons behind the fact that in stage one, together with doctors, seniors and chronically ill people, there should be vaccinating prosecutors and uniformed services? Will Minister Ziobro as Attorney General also be vaccinated? Please answer these questions in concrete terms. Not only Members and Members are waiting for them, but most of all Poles and Poles. It is extremely important that these answers be heard today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u209	Thank you. Mr Michał Dworczyk, Head of the Office of the Prime Minister's Office, is responsible.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u210	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Firstly, I would like to remind you that doctors, nurses, people who are on the front line are obviously vaccinated first and not in stage one, but in stage zero. So far, from a group that has also been extended to include non-medical personnel, because there are room ladies, people who work in hospitals - this group has nearly 1300 thousand. people - registered or registered for vaccination about 1050 thousand. over 560 thousand people were vaccinated. persons. Secondly, this is also the answer to the question whether all of the zero stages have been vaccinated. No, not yet. They would have been vaccinated by the end of next week if it hadn't been for Pfizer to limit and delay orders. That's why we had to slow down the rate of vaccination of group zero. We want this stage of zero to be closed in February. If only the vaccine is available in advance - and here we can rely only on Pfizer's declarations - we will, of course, finish the vaccine immediately in step zero. When it comes to seniors in queues, let's face it, some seniors are used to going to the clinic alone to sign up, but we have been calling from the very beginning for seniors to sign up through the hotline, this is the easiest way, under number 989, and we have argued that going to the POZ is risking themselves not only for weather reasons, but above all because you can have contact with the sick person there and just get infected yourself. We therefore appeal and ask you to help us get this message to all seniors so that they can use this secure way of helpline, and if they have a problem with this, for example, they can also call the Helpline of the Senior Support Corps. There are volunteers there who can help with registration, if such a senior has a problem with it, step by step they will help pass through the registration process whether by phone or via the Internet. With regard to the third question, I would like to point out that doctors are not at stage one, but at stage zero, just like all medical and non-medical personnel working in medical entities, while in stage one they are seniors. This stage was clarified yesterday. The first stage is divided into three parts: 1a, i.e. the first part of people who will be vaccinated as of January 25, are seniors; 1b stage 1b are people with chronic diseases, including oncology and other diseases, which have been recommended by the Medical Council at the Chairman of the Council of Ministers; 1c stage 1c are elected officials, representatives of uniform services, i.e. those who are relevant to the functioning of the State. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u211	Thank you. An additional question is asked by Mrs Iwona Hartwich. Did you communicate with 989 yourself? Yes. Did it work? All you have to do is go to the site: vaccinums and everything is clear.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm sure you'll agree with me if I say that people with disabilities are a special group. I wanted to ask you because I have two specific questions. When will people with significant disabilities be vaccinated at home? What group are they gonna be in, what group are they in? Do their caregivers also have a chance to inoculate with their subjects? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u213	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Dworczyk, Head of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, is again responsible.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u214	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Excuse me, sir, because we were finishing the discussion with your Member. On the other hand, when it comes to disabled people and their carers, they will be vaccinated in their age groups, unless such a person has a disease that qualifies to be in the first stage, i.e. one of the selected chronic diseases, or has another condition. They're... But most people have in common, Minister. Please? Most people have comorbidities. Yes, but I repeat how it was constructed. We have enumeratively listed chronic diseases that qualify for the first stage. There is also a second category of disease in the national vaccination programme. Those who have these diseases can go to their treating physician and get a referral which will cause that, even if they do belong, assume, to the second or third group, they can go in the first group, after vaccination with seniors, that is a condition, they can apply for vaccination.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u215	Thank you very much, Minister. I'll confirm. Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind... Let's move on to the next question. Members Marta Kubiak and Krzysztof Czarnecki... Mr. Marshal, Mr. Marshal... ... Law and Justice, now they're gonna ask a question about the construction of the 11th Expressway. Can I ad vocem, one sentence? No, sir, that is not possible now.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u216	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The people of northern Wielkopolska, including my home town, or Sawa, are anxiously looking at a progressive pandemic that affects many aspects of our lives. In my parliamentary work, I increasingly meet with questions about how the pandemic will affect plans for the construction of the 11 expressway, which could connect Piła, Ujście, Koż, Rogoźno or even Oborniki with the capital of our voivodship, i.e. Poznań. Let me just remind you that our predecessors from the Civic Platform have done nothing about this subject, even though for many years their representatives have taken positions at every level of power, from presidents, wojts and mayors of communities involved in the construction, through the government majority, to the premiere. However, for many years it was northern Wielkopolska, including the Pilski subregion, which remained the biggest black hole in our country in terms of access to expressways or motorways. Our predecessors left nothing but empty promises, and the cherry on the cake was an announcement a few days before they lost the big plan to build any kind of ring road. Many simply call it a list of shame, and I consider it a clear mockery of the inhabitants who were promised pears on the willow. I would therefore like to learn from the Minister at what stage are the plans for the construction of the 11 expressway between Poznań and Piła, with particular emphasis on the Obornik, Ujście and Piła bypasses. I am convinced that the construction of the expressway, as well as the bypasses mentioned above, will be a great part of the government's plans for our region, which was particularly strongly supported by the 100 bypass programme. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u217	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Weber, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, is responsible. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u218	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you so much for asking about the S11 expressway. I would like to stress with full power that the implementation of this road is very important for the Ministry of Infrastructure and for the entire government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, because this road will significantly improve the traffic taking place on the mainland in the western part of Poland. The implementation of the entire S11 will improve the link between the region of the Silesian agglomeration by the Wielkopolska Voivodeship and the villages lying in the north of Poland. S11, next to the currently completed A1 motorway and the S7 expressway, will be another road with high technical parameters, which will connect the south of Poland with the north. Therefore, the construction of the entire S11 expressway, including sections between Poznań and Piła, together with the Obornik, Ujście and Piła bypasses, was considered urgent and necessary by the infrastructure resort. In a regional context, it will communicate Wielkopolska on the one hand with the Baltic Sea and on the other hand with our mountains. Its value will not only improve communication, it is about entrepreneurs, heavy transport or transit, but also that our national goods, such as the sea and mountains, will be easier for the inhabitants of Wielkopolska. It can be said briefly that this path must arise and the Government of Law and Justice does everything to make it so. This investment was included in the government's programme setting out priorities for the development of the national road network, i.e. in the 2014-2023 national road construction programme, with a view to 2025. I'll go straight to the Greater Poland episodes. Currently, studies are carried out between Poznań and Piła for the S11 section in order to analyse and recommend options for the application for a decision on environmental conditions. This decision is one of the key elements of the investment process. Here I must mention that all contracts with S11 preparatory work contractors on this section were signed between 2018 and 2020. This indicates that real action to carry out these tasks has been initiated under the rule of law and justice, Minister Andrzej Adamczyk. It was then that the funds for these preparatory work were provided and are being consumed today because these preparatory work is ongoing. The section between the Saw and Poznań is divided into five stages of implementation. The first episode is the saw ring road, and the estimated length is 9 km. Preparatory and design works are underway, we call them studios in short. The expected date of obtaining the environmental decision, i.e. the choice of the option to be implemented, is the third quarter of next year. The second episode is the estuary ring road. The estimated length - 15 km, study work is also ongoing here, the expected date of obtaining the environmental decision is the third quarter of 2022. The third episode is the Outlet - Oborniki. The length is approx. 50 km, preparatory work is underway, the expected date of obtaining the environmental decision is the first quarter of 2022. Obornik oblast with a length of 14 km. Preparatory work is underway, the expected date of obtaining the environmental decision is the third quarter of the current year, i.e. 2021. The request for an environmental decision was made before Christmas of the previous year, exactly 22 December 2020. And the last episode of Oborniki - Poznań with a length of 9 km. Preparatory work is underway, the expected date of obtaining the environmental decision is the third quarter of this year. Here, too, the request for an environmental decision was submitted on 22 December 2020. The timetables presented by me and, of course, their efficient implementation depend on a well-run preparatory work and (the bell) lack of such essential elements as appeals against administrative decisions or social protests. I hope that such elements, such problems will not occur and these timetables will be implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u219	Thank you very much. Is there another question to be asked by the Member again? No, it's all done, it's all done. I'm quitting. Yes. I'm quitting because the Minister said everything. Yes, yes, thank you very much. We'll now announce a three-minute break... Oh, we don't have to announce a break because the authorization's here. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this meeting information on vaccination against COVID-19 will be considered in order to create a chance to return to normality and to supervise the entire process which was requested by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the representative may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 5 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall also be heard for more than 5 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. I now ask that the representative of the applicants be heard by Mrs Barbara Dziuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u220	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Since spring 2020, the whole world has been struggling with pandemics. The Polish government responded very quickly to the problem of the spread of the COVID-19 virus, taking appropriate measures to protect the health of Poles. When it became possible to use the vaccine, the government made immediate decisions to obtain it and purchase it. The vaccination of as many people as possible is not only a breakthrough in protecting human health, but also a turning point for the economy. Poles are looking forward to returning to normality, walking together, meeting friends, friends, going to a movie, theatre or concert. This will all be possible again with vaccinations. We're in a difficult situation. We must follow the restrictions, but thanks to the growing national vaccination programme and the economic support programme, we will survive this difficult time. Very much depends on ourselves, on our behavior and discipline. We must inform each other and support each other at this time. Relevant information on the vaccination programme is available for each on the gov site. pl/scalamysie and on the website of the Ministry of Health. The pharmaceutical companies are supposed to deliver 62 million vaccines under contract. Poland has concluded 5 contracts for the purchase of vaccines against COVID-19. Let us repeat: the vaccination of as many people as possible guarantees a very strong inhibition of the transmission of the virus and the possibility of returning to normal in the economy. The course of vaccination is reported in detail and on the shared map of Poland you can observe the changing numbers of vaccinations with the first and second doses. In a word, full information on the operation of the national vaccination programme is available to all concerned. According to the state of implementation of the national vaccination programme as at 21 January, the Ministry of Health informs that out of 6 463 149 patients who were e-directed, 565 507 were already vaccinated with the first dose and 18 235 received the second dose. However, Pfizer and BioNTech reported unexpectedly that they had to reduce the delivery of vaccines to European Union customers. Thus, these companies forced changes in the timetable for implementing our national vaccination programme. Part of the delivery of doses has been suspended as part of the national vaccination programme. It should be stressed that our government has taken decisive action. First of all, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki signed a letter to the heads of the European Union on vaccines, demanding full information on supply restrictions, and took immediate action with the government to obtain vaccines for Poland as soon as possible, and this gives hope to quickly resolve the problem and calm the situation and return to normality. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u221	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Minister - a member of the Council of Ministers, the Head of the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Michał Dworczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u222	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The statement by the honourable Member was directional, it provided the most important information on the vaccination programme, so maybe I will only provide a few general information. During the discussion, we will certainly clarify all issues that are questionable. Ladies and gentlemen, the government accepted in December Ub. R. National vaccination programme. This programme was previously consulted very widely, not only among experts, not only among doctors - there was also a public consultation. More than 2,000 have been paid in. comments, proposals, answers. This programme was refined on the basis of these materials and subsequently adopted by the Council of Ministers. The implementation of the national vaccination programme is currently underway. We've started recordings. First, vaccinations of the zero group, i.e. the group in which all persons working in the medical activities are concentrated, began. Now we are preparing to start vaccination of group one, which is the population vaccination of seniors. At the moment, seniors aged over 80 are already registered in the central calendar, and the seniors aged over 70 will be recorded tomorrow. On Monday, January 25th, as I mentioned, the population vaccinations will begin. A system has been created that today has the ability to vaccinate in Poland amounting to 3.5 and 4 million vaccinations that could have been carried out. The only thing holding us back is limited access to the vaccine. We have also recently dealt with a situation in which Pfizer limited the delivery for a few weeks, which slowed down the vaccination phase of group zero, but did not affect the start of population vaccination. I think that what is important is the fact that the debate that is taking place in Poland, as well as the efforts of many communities from different sides of the political barricade and just people who represent different environments, lead to the popularization of the issue of vaccination. The rate or percentage of people who want to get vaccinated is increasing. At the moment it reaches over 60%. I think that this is a fact which should all the more motivate us not to try - I am talking about us, the parliamentarians of all clubs - to use politically this great task, which is not only before the government, but before the whole state, in front of the whole society, i.e. to carry out vaccinations as much as possible of the adult population of Poles. As we have announced, we maintain these declarations, the current delivery of vaccines will allow us to inoculate about 3 million Poles by the end of the first quarter. However, if in the meantime, i.e. in the coming weeks, new vaccines are registered and delivered under the EU agreement to Poland, then of course now we will speed up the rate of vaccination and these people will be more. We also believe that the declarations made by vaccine producers will be carried out, and consequently in the second quarter vaccines will be delivered to Poland much more, which will significantly speed up the implementation of the national vaccination programme. We'll be with the representatives of the ministry... You are a minister, so we will, of course, be at your disposal when it comes to answering your questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u223	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Ms Anna Goławska. No? Isn't that enough? Well, thank you. Therefore, I would like to inform you that the Members of the debate have come forward, and I have a comprehensive list. As the first Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, Law and Justice. Time - of course 2 minutes. As usual, there is no Member. Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u224	Ladies and gentlemen, we would all like the government to come up with one thing, which is a vaccination programme. However, it is difficult to talk about success if we observe that having the same access to vaccines as all other European countries, we are falling once again in this statistics on the number of people vaccinated per million inhabitants. Minister! Let us mark one important thing: Poles feel lost. In particular, sick people are happy with the change that has taken place, i.e. with the shift of some of them to group 1b, but they have very serious doubts about who this applies to. Whether it's people with diabetes, hypertension, coronary or chronic lung disease, but also families, e.g. Children with cancer or dialysis? Are they getting into group 1b or not? All of Poland. The entry under the title 'in.' doesn't settle anything. But above all, it's been almost a month since the vaccinations started, a month, 591 thousand. vaccinated and not vaccinated, no senior. No senior 80+, no senior 90+, except those who are in social services or who are doctors, has been vaccinated. It's a shame. The reason for the shame are also those queues before the POZ, which we all watched, where under dramatic conditions there were 80+ people standing to sign up for their vaccination date. Aren't you just ashamed? Aren't you ashamed to lie like that? And let the Poles go. I wanted to ask you how much sugar is in sugar, so I'd like to ask how many doctors we have in a group of doctors. If I hear that 591 thousand have been vaccinated and there are 450,000 medical doctors in Poland, I mean doctors, dentists, nurses, paramedics, [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's 450,000 of them in total, and I'd like to ask you one simple thing. Thank you, Member. How come you're getting vaccinated by employees of optical plants, pharmaceutical companies, and we're still not going to vaccinate the old people? [[Applause]] We will, Madame.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u225	Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club, is now speaking. Are you an MP? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u226	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! Vaccination, a national vaccination programme, is a very important issue, and I think that together we should ensure that this process is carried out as soon as possible and without unnecessary irritation, especially from those who are waiting for the help of the government, have confidence in these messages. I wouldn't want to see any more mistrust through these untimely decisions. I would like to raise the following points. Firstly, I would like to ask the ministers: Who is responsible for the so-called. Out-of-the-way vaccination teams? I mean, people over the age of 80, 70, who are independent, are unable either alone or with the help of the family to go to the vaccination point. That's what these people are asking right now. We have a lot of calls to the Members' Offices. There's no information. At one point of vaccination, they say they're not interested, in the other they say it's a node hospital, the novice hospital says they don't know anything about it. Therefore, I would like to hear a clear answer from the Minister: Who is responsible for this and when will these away teams start with vaccinations? The second point is the issue raised by teachers working in kindergartens, nursery schools and children's clubs. This is a group of educators who works all the time on the front line. Let me remind you that these facilities are functioning, for example. COVID-related studies were not carried out there, and for teachers of classes I-III this action was carried out. In view of the above, I would like to ask the ministers: Is it also envisaged that a group of people working in kindergartens, crèches will be included in this (Bingle) group of people working in kindergartens, in the same form of assistance... Thank you very much. ...what class I-III teachers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u227	Now you ask Dariusz Klimczak, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u228	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have some specific questions about the government's plan to freeze the economy due to the increasing number of vaccinations. Specifically, when will the government present such a plan? What sectors of the economy will be unfrozen? What percentage of the vaccine population? And the basic question is, when will the people who have been vaccinated double be able to take off their masks? Does the government even provide for a photo of the masks after a double vaccination? There are also questions about privileges and, in fact, the abandonment of restrictions in relation to pandemics vis-à-vis individuals and companies, entrepreneurs. The second point is to continue the topic of pharmacists, which we started at the Health Committee meeting. You have mentioned that such work is ongoing. I would like to ask you at what stage they are in connection with the inclusion of pharmacists in the vaccination process. And one last thing about the newly created COVID labs. After a month's break, the Ministry of Health resumed recruitment for such laboratories. I know that a lot of these points came forward, mostly from local governments. They really cost a lot of money. From the information I have, it seems that this process really takes too long. Could the Minister comment on this, why many weeks are waiting for the decision to grant the status of the COVID laboratory, which as a COVID de facto operates in a given hospital, only the PCR tests were not performed, but there are COVID patients, all other studies were carried out there? Thank you in advance for your answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u229	Thank you very much. Now, Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u230	First of all, I wanted to let you know that maybe an explanation of why people in their 80s don't get vaccinated, what Mrs. Lubnauer was picking up is that if someone calls 989, they'll get information that people born after 1941, that's people up to the age of 78, how easy to calculate. People in their 80s listen carefully to what they're told. So that's so much for the minister who said everything was in order. Minister, those born after 1941 are to be vaccinated. On the other hand, I wanted to ask, because I asked a question, I mean, interpellation, but I would like to know from the Minister what it's like with these vaccines. Are they awarded, how to pay, who takes bribes, or in the Union take bribes, or do we take bribes? Because it's known that bribery is normal in this business. Pfizer was even convicted of corruption in the medical community. So perhaps it is not a coincidence that the European Union has chosen Pfizer rather than another company. Nevertheless, I wanted to know what the accounts really were. How is it that Pfizer reduces the number of vaccines? She's giving it to us? Is there a deal or a deal if you don't have a deal, you pay some kind of penalty? What's with the settlements? It's all completely unclear. As it is unclear, it confirms the suspicion that everything there is based on bribery, not on another principle. Ladies and gentlemen, I am also asking whether the people who are taking vaccines - I do not know which companies, because I am not informed, I am not vaccinated, so I am not interested - are informed that Pfizer and others are not responsible for the effects of vaccination. Are these people fairly informed at this point? It's a basic thing. These are very simple questions. I wish I knew. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u231	Thank you. Mrs Barbara Bartus, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u232	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, A moment ago, there were words on the speaker that the situation was abnormal. Yes, the situation is insane. We have a pandemic. Everyone here, in this House, we should start working together to... A nose mask. Madame, I do not disturb you with this mask. I'm wearing a mask, and I'm wearing a nose. You were just disturbing me. Dear Member, let us address the problem and the Poles. Let us deal with the problem and Poles, do not create a bad atmosphere. Nose mask. The Member said that there are queues of 80-year-olds who cannot volunteer for vaccination. And the situation is completely different. If such situations as you are talking about happen, then you are Members of the Polish Sejm and such people should be helped. I'll take the example of a very close person, because I know what it looks like. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yes, Member, I can say that. Since last Friday, 80-year-olds have been allowed to volunteer for vaccination. I wasn't home. I return that Friday from Warsaw and my mother informs me that she has already registered. After 80 years of age, the person volunteered for his own facility and is already registered. Not everyone's so independent. What's going on with that mask? But I have another question for the Minister. Because these people, especially older ones, with many diseases are still concerned that these numerous diseases are not some kind of contraindication to the vaccine. This situation is new. We are all facing it and therefore please: Could the Minister explain whether any diseases are a contraindication for vaccination? I would also ask you to explain, to calm down other concerns that seem natural. We often hear from those who deny [[♪ The bell ♪]] In general, the pandemic that vaccinations, vaccination complications are very dangerous. I would like to ask the Minister to address this issue. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u233	Thank you, Member. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u234	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Within 4 weeks, Israel vaccinated 25% of the population. It is not only a question of the availability of vaccines, but above all the proper use of medical infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen! There's no vaccine. We all know he's not gonna pour out of the empty one and Solomon isn't gonna pour it. But it's a matter of use, Minister, medical infrastructure. Does the High Chamber know how many temporary hospitals are built in Poland? 33. 19 of them cost 518 million. The most expensive in Wrocław - 75 million. Another one is Katowice - 55 million. Minister! I asked the NFZ how medical services are provided there. Only in seven temporary hospitals with the ones I mentioned, whatever's going on. Temporary hospitals should be the primary vaccination base, because groups of the oldest, the oldest seniors - 80-year-olds, 90-year-olds - have to be guaranteed one basic thing: the safety of vaccination. They can't be gathered, squeezed like sardines somewhere on a narrow, five-foot hospital hallway. That's where the space is. We're asking for information. We demand this information, like temporary hospitals, which cost perhaps along with those created by Minister Sasin, and there are 13 of them, nearly 1 billion PLN. How will this infrastructure be used? And finally, the most important thing: away teams. How would you like to reach the care and care facilities, social services homes, 24/7 care facilities? But here also Poland has its own specifics - illegal nursing homes. That's what the voivods know. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's over 150 of them all over the country. Are you gonna get there, too? These are matters, questions and we expect concrete answers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u235	Thank you, sir. Now Mr Przemysław Koperski, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u236	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Why have you misled teachers by saying on Friday at a meeting with the Polish Teachers' Union that teachers will be treated as a priority? Aren't you ashamed to lie to kindergarteners about this? After all, since May 2020, together with teachers and all staff, kindergartens have been working stationary all the time. You can't even organize flu vaccines for them that they've been asking for for for months. On Monday, teachers and I-III students returned to school. The return of the older classes is expected. Yet increasing the safety of teachers and educational staff through vaccination is crucial for the health and life of almost 5 million kindergarteners, students, their families. Only vaccination offers a chance to learn safely in classrooms and direct contact between students and teachers, which, I think you agree, is the best way for children to develop and health properly. Vaccinations in schools and kindergartens will also have a positive impact on the situation of parents, among others. by enabling them to finally return to full employment. Prime Minister! Minister! Question: "When will you start vaccinations of teachers and kindergarten and schools?" Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u237	Thank you. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u238	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Zambrowski County: no one has volunteered as part of the POZ for vaccination, the hospital is only vaccinated by those who are registered there, seniors over 70, 80 years of age are directed to Łomża, 30 km away, Bialystok, about 70 km away. Minister Dworczyk said that this issue would be resolved and that if the POZs could not be persuaded to talk, administrative decisions would be issued. I would have a question at this point when this will happen, because the decision is needed today, and it should not be delayed. Really, we need to take into account the weather conditions and the fact that seniors are being directed to these remote units. It's urgent and needs to be handled as soon as possible. Minister, my question is, when are you going to make that decision? Time is running and people are waiting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u239	Mr Waldemar Andzel, the Law and Justice Club. There's no envoy. Ms Krystyna Shumilas, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u240	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's not a national vaccination program, it's a national chaos program. What is happening in this program is calling for vengeance to heaven. Minister, first a group of zeros is growing to extreme proportions, and then we find out that there are prosecutors there, which means you're getting seats for your fastest. Since when are prosecutors party, Member? What a heresy. On the other hand, as far as teachers are concerned, this is the group for which the Minister of Health said: the places where teachers work are responsible for the epidemic. You said it, Minister. We're opening schools today, and we don't know if we're gonna be able to inoculate teachers before summer. Given how this national chaos program is developing, it is likely that teachers will be vaccinated in September. I ask you, in fact, that this be a national vaccination programme, you should start by presenting the objectives of this programme and clearly define the rules for vaccination and stick to these rules. And you're from Saxon to Las with those vaccinations. When it comes to people over the age of 80... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yes, Mrs, your mother has registered, but, ladies and gentlemen, there are people who are 80 years old, have no families, are disabled, have very difficult conditions, often have no phone. Like these people. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you want me to report to the facility? On the Internet. Why don't you use social services, local governments to help people? Because you don't like self-government? What do local governments do? Put that hatred in your pocket and use the forces that are there to help people. Thank you. [[Applause]] They're not citizens. This is the PiS electorate. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u241	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u242	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am very pleased that the Minister of Health is taking part in the proceedings today and that it will be possible to ask him a question. Minister, today is Grandma's day, tomorrow is Grandpa's day. I'd like to ask you about the vaccinations of 80+, 70+, 60+. The information provided by Minister Dworczyk on the number and possibilities of vaccination of persons in the first quarter shows that this is 3.5 million people. He warned that this was limited only by the number of doses of vaccine to be given by Poland. At the level of today's knowledge of the number of vaccines promised, how do the Minister temporarily anticipate the completion of vaccination of groups of 80+, 70+? We may not be talking about the 60+ group right now, because it's too long ago, but if everything works out, when it comes to the quantities promised by the suppliers of pharmaceutical companies, at what time, given the efficiency of the Polish vaccination points, are we able to inoculate these two groups? I would ask you to pay particular attention to the fact that the individual vaccination points are independent, because these are very often private places and ZOZs, they give up this service and retirees - not only because all Poles and all Poles - have fewer and fewer vaccination points to choose from. Thank you very much. I would also ask for this information in writing, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u243	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u244	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Agreeing with the assumptions of the national vaccination strategy, where our main goal should be to inoculate as many Poles as possible as possible, Minister, so that we can gain immunity and so that the economy can be thawed out as quickly as possible, I have a specific question, knowing that Pfizer has announced a restriction: Why the Ministry of Health has not recommended the government, after all, to launch vaccines that are so-called. The shelves, ladies and gentlemen, so we don't slow down the rate of vaccination in any way? I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we will come to the conclusion that these decisions will not be 50-50, that we will make more courageous decisions, even though we have 21 days. At the same time, this does not mean that if it is 25, it will not continue to be effective. That's one question. Second question. Minister, knowing that we want to open schools, why didn't we make the decision to put teachers in the right place in this strategy? I don't get it, Minister, but there's a chance that there's something else in this strategy that's not something that's inviolable. That is why I appeal, Minister, to change this. And the third thing my clubmate said about it. Minister, I'm asking you to answer whether, after the second vaccine after seven days, these people will be able to take off these masks absolutely. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u245	Thank you, sir. Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice. We'll connect remotely. You're welcome, sir. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u246	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! According to my information, today in Poland we are prepared to inoculate about 3.5 million people per month, but due to the limited supply of vaccines we can now carry out about 1 million. The reason for this, as we all know, is changed recently by the manufacturer originally declared schedule of delivery of the vaccine. I would like to ask the Minister whether one of the reasons for the reduction in the number of vaccines delivered to the Member States of the Union is not the attitude of Germany, which have broken out of the solidarity agreement of the Union and, on their own, are also seeking to purchase this scarce product. In addition, if media reports are to be believed, about 2 000 have been disposed of to date. vaccines. I don't think we're going to be 100% free of this undesirable phenomenon, but I'd like to ask what the reasons are and if it can be minimized in some way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u247	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Monika Rosa, Civic Coalition. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u248	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The first stage is 60+ seniors. We saw pictures of the queues, we heard seniors saying they couldn't get through, they couldn't register for vaccination. Senior registrations of 70+ will begin soon. What conclusions did you draw from those first days when seniors of 80+ were allowed to register? What will be changed in the system to avoid queues before clinics, blocked phone lines or seniors knowing what to do? What's gonna change? My second question: How many 80+ seniors have registered for vaccination so far? What is the number of people, but what is the percentage of this age group? Stage 1b, chronically ill. When will there be a regulation that will indicate exactly what diseases the chronic ministry has in mind? Tell me about the estimates for those who will be able to benefit from this vaccination in group 1b. Thirdly, representatives of state services. I would very much ask for substantive information, why, for example. persons with significant disabilities, carers of such persons and independent persons shall be taken into account at further stages of vaccination than e.g. officials, representatives of state services. I draw attention to the fact that often disability makes this person particularly vulnerable to illness, a severe course of illness. If the caretaker of a person with a significant disability gets sick, what happens to that person? If someone who can't take care of himself gets sick, what happens to someone like that? These are serious social dilemmas that you must respond to. I also have a question: What about homeless people? What will be the vaccination system for such individuals? This is a difficult social topic, and we need to think about when and how these people will be vaccinated. And one last thing. There was a new strain, a new mutation of Coronavirus, also in Poland. Or, for example, This British variety, which is now [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is it in Poznań or in Małopolska, or will it affect the vaccination system or health care organisation in any way? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u249	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u250	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The national vaccination programme lists as many as 17 government-approved chronic medical advices which empower patients irrespective of age to be vaccinated in front of teachers and uniformed services. Since the government constantly claims that everything is planned and under full control, I kindly ask the Minister to answer the following questions. How many, of course, millions of Poles over the age of 60 suffer from chronic diseases listed in the national vaccination programme? Was this figure estimated on the basis of family doctors' records? Secondly, when will they start and when will the vaccination of this group of people - both older and under the age of 60 - end? Thirdly, when will the vaccination of teachers, rescuers and firefighters begin, and when will the vaccination of government agents and prosecutors begin? Finally, what is most interested in Poles: When will this juggler end with the establishment of vaccine queues in Poland? And one last thing. We have discussed a lot, a lot and we have exchanged temporary hospitals, but I have a question for the Minister: Does the Minister know that in addition to temporary hospitals, military hospitals, container hospitals have been established in our country, which are intended only for MON employees and military workers? Will these hospitals be included in the national vaccination programme so that the military and MON workers do not block Queues for patients in civilian health care units? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u251	Thank you very much. Mr Radosław Lubczyk, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u252	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have questions for the Minister, the Minister of the Court. Were you in county Poland? You say things like that, we're going to get vaccinated, and that's enough vaccination. I was vaccinated on the 13th of January, but my fellow doctors who were supposed to be vaccinated on the 18th of January didn't get this vaccine anymore because she's just gone. You say you're going to vaccinate 80+ people, and you haven't vaccinate group zero yet. So I'm asking you where the truth lies and if these vaccines are enough for group zero. I'm not talking about people over 80 anymore. When are you guys even planning on finishing the zero vaccination? Now I wonder if the vaccine will actually arrive and after these 21 days I will be able to inject myself with the second dose. This is one problem, the problem of group zero, which not everyone has been vaccinated for today, because there are simply no vaccines in smaller towns. There may be more vaccinations in big cities, but believe me, in Szczecin County, there's just been a shortage of vaccines for doctors. And the second thing about 80+ people is this. I'm from the Popegeer area, and when you go to these villages, you look at the people who live there, you'll see that they don't have the opportunity to inoculate, if their family doesn't help them, they won't be helped by the chiefs, the people of goodwill. There's no way these people would register for vaccination. I hope... The vaccines are here. They're here. So why don't you go to the country and show me people who don't have a clue that there's such a thing as vaccinations, because they're just off communication, whether it's on the Internet or on the bus. Without the help of third parties, these people just won't get vaccinated. In the local government, ask. This isn't the role of government. This is the role of government. They're cooperating. So answer these two questions: When do we inoculate group zero and how do you plan to reach all those over the age of 80? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u253	Thank you very much. Thank you. Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u254	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Changes have been made to the national vaccination programme schedule, but it is worth noting that they do not change anything in the order of records. In the first stage of vaccination, it was possible for persons with chronic diseases, after seniors over 60 years of age, to benefit from the vaccine, but before representatives of uniformed services and teachers. Originally, people with chronic diseases were in the second stage of vaccination. I'd like to know what's going on with patients chronically oncology. Will such individuals need to present a certificate from an oncologist authorising vaccination? Chemotherapy is expected to reduce the production of antibodies after administration of the vaccine, therefore e. g. vaccination is recommended prior to initiation of chemotherapy. I would also like to ask if and what disease units rule out the possibility of vaccination against COVID-19. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u255	Thank you, sir. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Civic Coalition. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u256	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I think everyone will agree with the statement that health has no political color and does not know what political interests are. The vaccine isn't enough for us to inoculate ourselves, Minister, all of us. Therefore, I think everyone will agree that vaccines should be targeted primarily at those whose health and life are at risk today in a special way. So why suddenly the idea of vaccinating healthy forty-year-olds, prosecutors and other individuals belonging to this type of group, who suddenly entered group one before many seniors, before people who were transplanted, after heart attacks, with chronic diseases, asthma or diabetes? In this group, the threat is the biggest. I also have a question about stopping vaccination. On Monday, the hospital sites in my region missed the vaccine, and I'm sure the minister will say it's because Pfizer reduced the number of vaccines, but those were orders for the second doses that the government supposedly secured at the Material Reserve Agency. Hospitals have already reported the need to provide a second dose so that those doctors who have been vaccinated first will not receive the second dose after 21 days, but will not receive these vaccines. Why? Shifting, changing the vaccination schedule is very difficult, because if we don't inoculate the medics on time, they will also move the vaccinations of 80+ individuals. We know very well that any time-limits, changing the rules of vaccination of these oldest people creates difficulties in implementing this timetable. I also wanted to ask you why you're reducing vaccination plans to hospitals more than Pfizer said would reduce vaccines. Pfizer announced that he would deliver around 50% in the near future. The vaccines are less, and the hospital in my town (the bell), which was supposed to vaccinate 180 people a week, is suddenly only going to get 30 doses... Thank you. ...weekly. Why so big cuts? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u257	Thank you, Member. Mr Robert Obaz, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u258	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I just found out in this room that we're dealing with a new situation because we have a COVID. We've all been waiting for the vaccine for 10 months, and one of your messengers says we're dealing with a new situation. My question is: How has the government been preparing logistically for these 10 months to plan how these vaccines are to be distributed, which individuals are to be vaccinated and when? Today we have this situation that we get up in the morning and we have a decision that in the first group for vaccination, in this zero, there are some, and tomorrow - that there are others, the day after tomorrow - that there are others. There's talk of uniforms. These uniforms that work on the street should also be vaccinated in the first place. And these are young people. They're safe. Let's agree they're dealing with different cases. Similarly, the city guards were completely excluded from the first range of vaccinations. I propose the whole of Poland to the first. It won't be a problem. Not all of Poland, Madam Member. It's like you haven't prepared anything, because it's a new situation for you after 10 months, which is sick. We just heard that Mrs. Bartus says this is a new situation. A new situation for the government that you haven't planned anything completely in 10 months. Because Pfizer reduced deliveries. There's a new situation. Minister! Not long ago, you said that there were special telecentres prepared to receive from those people who will register on the phone and these people are standing in huge queues in front of clinics. So where's the telecentrics? The question is, how many of these telecentres have been activated, how many people have been working. Where exactly are they standing? Telecentra, Madame, maybe you have no idea about telecentrics, so please don't argue, you were really going to run the telecentra. We've heard declarations that there'll be a telecenter where you can inoculate. And one last thing. How come, from December 28th to today, you've vaccinated less than 600,000? People? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And Turkey, which was prepared for this, injected 1 million in a week. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u259	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u260	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm sure the vast majority of us sitting here will agree with me that the vaccine is a breakthrough. not only for health but also a turning point for the economy. It is the best and most effective recipe to return to the economic path of development. However, we are realistic people who respect the freedom of every citizen to self-determination, and therefore vaccinations take the form of voluntary, optional vaccinations. That's why I have a question. This question arises because there are many fake news in the media space. Does the government envisage any changes in this respect, i.e. will vaccinations be mandatory? I also have questions about the number of vaccines I ordered. Because if we have information that not all of the population want to get vaccinated, is it appropriate to buy 60 million doses of COVID-19 vaccine? I also have one more question. Does the government in any way limit the activity of local authorities in supporting citizens living in its territory, for example in the area of enrollment, information - it is about local authorities - about the course of the vaccination programme? Shouldn't government and local governments really support their citizens, help to access information through existing structures such as GOPS or ILOS? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u261	Thank you, Member. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u262	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Today on TV, you said you were sick of it. I understand, sir, because there was no such chaos as the vaccination program. If you want to do this job professionally, we expect it when the chaos is over, when you show the program, when there is no pressure that prosecutors have to enter the first group, that you speak differently in the Sejm at the meeting of the Health Committee, and in the Senate you talk about other groups. I witnessed it myself on the Health Committee. We really want this action to be successful, but you can't go out in front of the cameras every minute - Minister Dworczyk, you, Minister - and tell people. Take care of your professional work, hand it over to us - and that's no problem - for us to get involved in this so we can help. Use this distribution channel. And one more thing. My previous speaker was talking about local governments to turn on local governments, but you're on your own... Member of the Commission, but the local authorities are cooperating. You didn't understand. But, Commissioner, please don't disturb me. Please don't disturb me. You didn't understand. But they're cooperating. Mrs... I would like you to show us in what formula, how you will involve local governments, so that you can so that we can achieve a good result together. And two more things. Patients with cancer, and precisely: patients who have already undergone chemotherapy. How should these groups be defined? Because you can do that so there aren't too many questions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. Question: "When will chaos end?" [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u263	Thank you. Mrs Teresa Pamula, Law and Justice. Come on in, my fellow Member. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u264	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear colleague Krystyna Skowronska! At the meeting of the two committees, she kept saying that; she was missing the truth about the funds received by the Rzeszow hospitals. I wanted to let you know that I've checked that 20 million in local initiatives have been given to Rzeszow Voivodeship hospitals: obstetrics, lungs, orthopedics. Also county hospitals received money, e.g. Mielec - 3 million, Ustrzyki - 5 million. I would like to say: Let's tell ourselves the truth here, let's tell each other the truth at committee meetings, let's not create such fake news. Ladies and gentlemen! There's a lot of our guys abroad. Not mine, everyone in Poland. Many people are concerned about how they will be vaccinated. Is the Pole who lives abroad... Faster than in Poland, ma'am. They've got a better chance. ...is insured, will he also be able, if he stays in Poland, to receive a vaccine? Self-governments, ladies and gentlemen, are helping. The Member knows very well that all local authorities - in Podkarpacie and in Poland - are mobilized to help patients with disabilities, patients with severe dysfunctions. There are various services involved, e.g. Boy Scouts or Army. So, ladies and gentlemen, let's not create fake news on this platform. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u265	Thank you, Member. Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Coalition. Now you can take the floor. It's okay with the jury. Excuse me? There's no need to speak from the jury. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u266	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs Pamula - I apologise if I mistake the name - is concerned about how Poles who are abroad will be vaccinated. Rightly, but first of all, I will tell you quite frankly, I am worried about how Poles who are in Poland will be vaccinated. [[Applause]] There is a concern that those who are abroad will have easier access to vaccines than those who are in Poland. I'm afraid not. Minister! The case is extremely serious. There's a man standing in front of you who, like many other Poles, doesn't worry about when he gets vaccinated. I'm worried about when my 74-year-old dad gets vaccinated, my in-laws. It's often about sick people. I've been listening to those dates. People over the age of 60 from January 15 will be able to sign up. Then it changed to over 70 people. I'm saying, uh, good thing they're over 70. But today we're talking about people in their 80s. Turns out they're gonna sign up, it's nothing. It doesn't mean anything. Because as of January 25 - today we know that not from January 25 or early January 26 - will start vaccinations. Swelling group zero. There is indeed a huge abuse there. Why do you have these abuses in group zero, where everyone subscribes... Why are you silent about the prosecutors? Why aren't you thundering like when it was a few artists? That's when you condemned it. Everyone's in group zero today. It's kind of like the Wałbrzych PiS - all the guys to group zero, and the rest of them are in line. I won't be able to tell you again, but I have a question. Minister, don't account for the number of people who join the queues because it's not about signing up, it's about getting vaccinated. You haven't vaccinated any senior 60+, none yet. Not even a 80-plus. I have a question. Why can't seniors get vaccinated in their POZ? Why the queues? Why don't all the POZs get shot? For God's sake, Minister, use the POZ instead of organizing a large nationwide reorganization of hospitals because of the COVID right now... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you, sir. ...because this is the worst thing... Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice. ...what could happen during a pandemic. Calm down... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u267	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice. Last sentence, Marshal. No, sorry, time's up. You do it at the expense of your friends and colleagues. [[Applause]] Member, please. Because of you, Marshal, the Minister won't know what to do. I think you're overestimating yourself, ma'am. Yes, sir. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u268	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, The PiS Members themselves are in group zero. I won't talk that long, so I'll make it. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. Please don't disturb me. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'll be brief. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr President, you had your two minutes. Let the honourable Member speak as well. You'll talk when I'm done. For now, let me speak. Your marshal, and the right side is so disturbed... It's been said here since the vaccinations are in progress. Let me specify that according to the vaccination schedule, it started on December 27th, although there were minor disruptions. Of course, vaccinations were started with doctors. Depending on the age group or profession, you can request vaccination or register for vaccination from 15 January. Yeah, I used the hotline. In addition, I also used the National Health Fund's helpline because I was also interested in other issues, far away from COVID. I've logged in electronically. Even though I'm not so good at using a computer, it didn't take me more than 10 minutes - including reading instructions. So that when it comes to registration, I have no personal objection. I was gonna ask you about the coritos. We're getting information on the coronavirus mutations. It's the so-called. An English mutation, a British strain, as some call it. Will Pfizer and BioNTech against SARS-CoV-2 also work against [[♪ The bell ♪]] A new strain? If not, what's next? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u269	Thank you very much, thank you. Mr Dariusz Joński, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u270	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! With vaccinations in Poland, it is the same as taking part in the debate of Minister Dworczyk, who is responsible for vaccinations in Poland. He's not in the most important debate. The immunization's almost gone... This is the boss, boss doesn't have to. Boss, he splits the money. ...because less than 2% of people are vaccinated. There's one big mess and chaos. If you had to spend the public millions, you could have done it. It's quick and without a tender. If you have to vaccinate millions, you can't do it anymore. I want to make it clear that when the Poles entered in 2021, they believed that they could win with the coronavirus. They lived in the hope that together we would overcome this virus, that we would take care of health, life, and hundreds of thousands of jobs. You can't even do that. For the first months, you spent millions. To this day, 70 million PLN for ventilators has not returned to the Ministry of Health. The D.A.'s investigating the purchase of masks for PLN 5 million. Plus, there are cavities and Korean tests. Hundreds of millions were spent on temporary hospitals: 20 million for hospital in Łódź, which does not function, 40 million in Poznań, 55 million in Katowice, 75 million in Wrocław. Why are these hospitals closed? Why aren't they doing vaccinations today? Why did you spend PLN 518 million - without the National Hospital? Because there's a secret here. There's no deal until today. You introduced the director of Zaczyński, who allegedly was the director of the national hospital. He said yesterday he wasn't the principal and he was never the principal. I'm asking who's responsible for the national hospital. Where's the deal? [[Applause]] It's public money. We demand information on this matter. You easily spend $2 million on promotion, a mask campaign on TVP. Now you're spending on a campaign on TVP, which should do it for free in fact, because it's her mission. On private television, you can pay. I'm getting to the point that public [[♪ The bell ♪]] You spend money without a problem, and you just don't want to vaccinate people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u271	Thank you very much. Mr Stanisław Bukowiec, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u272	Dear Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! Before I ask a question, I will refer to the words of my previous speaker, because I heard the voices of the opposition, as she complained, you complained that there are no temporary hospitals that we are late. I understand that if there are temporary hospitals, you're complaining that they are. That's bad, too. I'd like you to have one opinion... Because they're empty, that's bad. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Don't bother me, I didn't interrupt you. Mr Joński... If you can, take one line and hold on to it. As for the words of my predecessors about the POZs, I'd like to... You're supposed to be asking questions, not referring to opposition. Mr... ...remember that POZs are largely run by local governments, so I understand that the role of local governments as managing authorities of these POZs is also important when it comes to older people who may or may not have a problem with registration. Ladies and gentlemen, the vaccination programme has slowed down by changing the timing of the vaccine delivery by Pfizer BioNTech. The temporary reduction in the number of vaccines delivered to Poland caused some professional groups and the environment to ask about the date of vaccination. Such interest can be enjoyed because it is evidence that social confidence in the vaccination process among Poles is increasing. According to today's CBOS survey, 56% The Poles want to vaccinate themselves. That's a 20% increase. It becomes necessary to ask about the vaccination schedule. One of the important professional groups is teachers. We know that some of the educators working in classes I-III have returned to fixed work. Dear Minister, I ask you to answer the question at which stage the teachers will be vaccinated and how this procedure will be carried out. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u273	Thank you, sir. Ms Urszula Zielińska, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u274	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A few weeks ago, a loved one, an 80-year-old man, received an invitation to inoculate with a deadline from his family's health clinic. He was vaccinated last week. On this occasion, his wife, a 77-year-old woman, was also vaccinated, even though she was not in group zero, but was suffering from a dangerous lung disease, and the doctor decided so. No, this is not the material for the next series of Mr. Pereira's and Kurski's hate series: Friends of the opposition have received vaccines outside the order. This is not the material that the Minister of Health can waste the next few days at press conferences, announcing the prosecution of the guilty, instead of preparing a vaccination plan and acquiring vaccines. It was in Scotland. Vaccinated seniors are Bob and Jim. Bob and Jim are luckier than Mrs. Ada and her 90-year-old dad from Lublin. Mrs. Ady's dad is weak and can't leave the house after vaccination. Despite her daughter's efforts to register her dad at the vaccination post at home, no government helpline consultant was able to inform Mrs. Ada where she could find this point. Such problems in Poland seniors, unfortunately, will encounter more. Seniors 80+ only got a week's priority for registration, which ends tomorrow. The effort to register must be taken by themselves. No one's gonna call them. No one's gonna take them. No information. No vaccines. Hence, it is not surprising that until yesterday we had over 1 million seniors 80+ unregistered. Minister, what's the support plan for these people? Are you going to create a central information on the points that are being vaccinated at home? Will you create the possibility of transport for those who are too weak to go alone and disfellowshipped by transport? Are you going to create volunteer teams to support this process? I, of course, as a Member who is not afraid of any work, will be happy to support the process of creation, e.g. This kind of information about centers, vaccination points at home or other tasks, just accept the offer of help, because I sincerely submit it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The way we care about the elderly and the weakest is what society we are, and you are the state you are the government, so let's take care of it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u275	Thank you, Member. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u276	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Last year was marked by the stigma of the pandemic of Coronavirus. We've all struggled to keep hospitals fit and somehow stop the pandemic itself. The end of the previous year, and in fact it was only the beginning of this year that brought us a vaccination campaign that could bring such a collective, I would say, resistance to Coronavirus if the right number of people were vaccinated. This isn't about everybody getting vaccinated, it's about getting the least of these vectors to carry the coritotus. We've received some unpleasant information about reducing vaccine production. I understand there's a schedule for the vaccination of our residents, which is linked to the delivery schedule. Will the first dose, when no second dose is provided, not cause any perturbation or simply unnecessary vaccination in the sense that this first vaccination may be wasted and will have to be carried out if we do not carry out two consecutive vaccinations, a total of three vaccinations? [[♪ The bell ♪]] This inhibition of supplies can cause this and hence my question. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u277	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u278	Good morning. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Is cashiers, salesmen and salesmen a worse sort of thing? Are the employees of construction discounts, hypermarkets and small grocery stores immortal, or did the pandemic prove that no coronavirus works on them? All of you. They have direct contact with the client, with the man, much bigger than the doctors. And doctors get benefits for contacts with patients with COVID and they're, at least theoretically, already vaccinated, just like DPS employees who get a lot smaller supplements, but they also get, and theoretically you started to vaccinate them. Why don't you vaccinate these people? Minister, why don't you want to show us what a man should show and throw out the first part of the vaccinated prosecutors and put in this social group because they're the most at risk? That's the first question. Second question. I was going to ask you about the economy, but you still think the economy is where the horse and the cow stand, and the money is given by the president of the bank. That's not true. More than 1 million workers from outside the European Union work in the Polish economy, over 1 million workers. How did you prepare our society to make sure that more than 1 million workers didn't bring us some kind of new mutation of coronavirus? Do you even have a plan after, of course, you vaccinate the entire population of Poles who will want it? Do you even have a plan to vaccinate workers who come to Poland for work, especially those from outside the European Union? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u279	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u280	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Seym! I must say that I am astonished to hear from the Members of the opposition. I want you to complete your knowledge, do your homework. It's really not hard. Were you a teacher? Then you will stop spreading lies and scaring Poles. You're acting like you can't access information or you don't want to. It's really not hard. You have a seym iPad, there's a seym website. gov.pl, just enter the password: we will vaccinate and then you will receive all the information. So? We're gonna vaccinate from the Internet? If you had listened to the Minister of Health, if you had used the information available, you would not have asked questions that would compromise you, because you do not even know which groups are represented by which professions. That was very nice today, by the way. I remember, in November, on the occasion of similar information from the Minister of Health, here in this plenary room, when we were talking about preparing a vaccination plan, the opposition Members, especially the Platforms, shouted: why is the Prime Minister preparing this? It's too soon. We don't have any vaccines yet. Today we have a National Health Programme. Fortunately, we didn't listen to you because you showed us what you could do. Today, it is difficult to benefit from the good experiences and solutions of the Platform, which, when there was an epidemic of swine flu, made Poles enjoy the spring. That's why, ladies and gentlemen... That's a lie. These were the words of Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz, spoken here in the Seym. Dear Members, We have a national vaccination program. You don't like the order, professional groups. Unfortunately, it is difficult to listen to your advice when you prove here today, during this information, that what you care about is chaos. Are you really mad that we have over 1,200 grand? [[♪ The bell ♪]] vaccines in Poland, that tomorrow the vaccination of DPS subjects ends, that vaccinations are scheduled? Thank you, Member. Minister! In the face of false information, I have a huge request for you. Mrs... Please answer the question: How is the distribution of vaccines in Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u281	Thank you very much. Mr Konrad Frysztak, Civic Coalition. You might as well be out of the podium, not screaming from the parliament bench.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u282	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's nice to welcome the Minister of Health, but I'm wondering where is the one who's actually responsible for the vaccinations in our country. Did the boss go to Wałbrzych? [[Applause]] You should have come sooner. Ladies and gentlemen! I wonder one thing - your inconsistency or another: maybe even consequence. You consistently divide Poles into better and worse sort. In this case, you share the police staff. Police personnel have been divided into uniformed officers and non- uniformed staff. Trade unions are asking you to join them as well. Why are they worse? That's $25,000. those who also deal with those who break the laws and laws in our country, they are also people who have contact with officers who may have contacts with the infected. That's an inconsistency. You are not consistent in your actions in order to cover the entire groups. You don't even share professional groups anymore, you divide directly, you split the workplaces. That's what your governments look like. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to be clear: what you are proposing in the context of vaccination is a total aberration. Let's face it, turn those hospitals that don't have to be backup units into vaccination points. All should be vaccinated massly, that's what's most important. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u283	Thank you, sir. Mr Czesław Hoc, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u284	Dear Marshal! Minister! A brief digression to my esteemed opposition, which she called herself a total opposition. Coronavirus does not distinguish between opposition and government, attacks mercilessly all. So I think you should focus, please, on the fight against the coronavirus, not the fight against the government. For a while, I think and suspect that if we could convert your power and power of criticism, aggression and black-sightedness into usable energy, we wouldn't have to invest in renewable energy sources, because your power and power is inexhaustible here. It's very sad. The whole world, ladies and gentlemen, is fighting the coronavirus. Poland fights in an orderly manner. We have a national vaccination program, we have a perfect, professionally prepared program and we effectively implement it. Ladies and gentlemen, what have we done? The government has already paid PLN 2.5 billion for vaccines. We don't think it's a cost, because it's an investment in health, the health of generations, the modern generation and future generations. We created a compensation fund, so we took into account possible compensations in the case of the NOP, i.e. in the case of undesirable vaccination reactions. For one dose of vaccine for one person we pay almost 64 PLN at the vaccination point. We have created a fund and committed funds to local governments that will ensure that people with disabilities are transported to vaccination centres. 75 zł, 65 zł for the carriage of one disabled person, including 80% A lump sum. Workable person - 35 zł, including 80% A lump sum. Ladies and gentlemen, these are some measures. Now we've purchased an additional 25 million doses of vaccines. Together we have about 80 million doses of vaccines, so we have absolutely provided a vaccination schedule. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, at my hospital, at our regional hospital in Kolobrzeg... Thank you, sir. ...where I recently received in endocrinological counseling, in an orderly manner, we gave him 98%. medical personnel. Today I had a second dose of the vaccine. So everything goes according to schedule and order. 2% , Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u285	Thank you, sir. Mr Bartłomiej Sienkiewicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u286	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I'm just gonna say two words to my predecessor. Those who don't want to get vaccinated say, "I'm fine, no one around me got sick." That's what you said, sir: I'm fine at the hospital, vaccinations all over the country are going perfectly. Well, I would point out that this is a bad methodology that leads nowhere. But there's one thing I wanted to say. There is a provision that says that this provision also applies to non-medical personnel, i.e. administrative, ancillary to these entities, as well as companies cooperating with the entity, who are permanently resident in this entity. This last sentence is no longer necessary in the second group or in the first. It's about groups zero and two. That means, according to the data the government gave, we've got 1050 grand to vaccinate. people from a widely understood medical staff who want to vaccinate themselves. So far, according to data provided by the government, 580,000 have been vaccinated, which means we are far from complete vaccination in this group. But in the meantime, the warehouse workers, the drivers, the warehousekeepers in the wholesalers were inoculated. This is not enough, these rights are also obtained by employees of optical plants, as long as the doctor is staying with them. In a word, the government completely lost control of the vaccinations of the people he let in in in a sense of these vaccinations. The effect of this is that the warehousekeeper is already vaccinated, but the first contact doctor has not yet been vaccinated, and every doctor who has been exposed to COVID has not yet been vaccinated. You can't control it, you can't verify your own rules. Minister! When will the realization of any plan begin instead of chaos? And to your fellow Members, I have one comment: [[♪ The bell ♪]] Don't try to paint grass green because she's not green when it comes to vaccinations. [[Applause]] You don't have a show.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u287	Thank you very much. Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u288	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On specific issues, we may have different views on the epidemic, on how to prevent and combat it, on how to reduce its spread. On the other hand, we all or almost all agree that the Coronavirus epidemic is one of the biggest challenges facing Europe and the world in recent decades. That is why I wanted to thank all those who participated in the fight against the epidemic: the Polish government, doctors, medical staff, all hospital workers and all those who participate to a greater or lesser extent in this fight. What doesn't help all of us is that in the public opinion, there is a lot of untrue, unprecise information in public space, distributed for lack of knowledge, and sometimes on purpose. Today we say there's a lot of fake news. That is why I wanted to ask the Minister to clarify a matter that has already been explained, but about which all the time there is temptation to play it, warm up the temperature of the discussion, arouse anxiety in society. Minister, will vaccination be mandatory or voluntary? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u289	Thank you, sir. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u290	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to raise two points. The first is the rate of vaccination. I understand that we must be united that all the countries of the Union have received the number of vaccines proportional to the size of society. However, please explain to me why. Denmark has already vaccinated 3% of its citizens, Spain, Slovenia, Italy, Lithuania, Ireland - about 2%, Sweden, Germany, Estonia, Austria, Iceland or Romania - between 1,5% a 2% Whereas in Poland it is only 1.4% of the population and this is below the EU average. I understand you're holding reserves for a second dose, in case Pfizer reduces, like last time, supplies. But do you really need to keep the whole second dose frozen? Such a reserve would have been needed if Pfizer had reduced delivery to zero and had not brought any dose for a whole month. But that doesn't seem possible. Please note that at the first dose this resistance is between 30% and 50%. If there was such a risk that these supplies would not exist at all, half of Europe would have no other strategy in this regard. The second case is appalling. It's about mobile vaccination points for non-mobile people. Let me give you a concrete example. My wife's 92-year-old grandmother, nonmobile, today, on Grandma's Day, called 21 points in Krakow to make an appointment for her arrival, and no one said yes, they're all screwing around. In one case, she heard that the vaccines were all over and could be vaccinated with another group, 70+ and 80+. My friend's grandfather, 95, got a deadline for mid-April. It's gonna end up in front of our grandparents and our grandmothers and D.A. Ziobro, and it's a scandal, and it's a shame. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u291	Mr Andrzej Noblechta, Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u292	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My statement will concern the distribution of vaccines in Poland. This course has recently been disturbed by an external decision, not by a decision of the Polish government. The Norwegian Institute of Public Health reported a week ago that the reason for reducing supplies is Pfizer's efforts to increase the production of the product. As a result, the availability of the preparation is to be definitively increased, but at the end of February this year. According to Pfizer, it is expected to increase the number of vaccine doses produced this year to 2 billion, i.e. by more than 700 million compared to the previous plan. At the same time, one of the provisions of the agreement that we have concluded within the European Union is that the countries that are parties to it will not obtain individual, separate vaccines. In this situation, it is clear that the Polish government has made a prudent, far-sighted decision on the implementation of the national vaccination programme, guided by the safety of patients. Each delivery of vaccines is divided into two parts: the first one goes to the vaccination point and the second one goes to the Material Reserve Agency's warehouse and is waiting for each patient to be guaranteed a second dose of vaccination. Pfizer admitted that at the end of January and at the beginning of February they would interfere with the delivery of vaccines, that they would be reduced. Therefore, the government had to adapt the vaccination schedule to these new conditions. And my question is: Does the Polish government already have this modified vaccination schedule? Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u293	Thank you, sir. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u294	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Yesterday, again, the Ministry modified the order of vaccination, and the first group was accompanied by chronically ill people. Therefore, I have the following question: Will there be people with disabilities in this group, their carers, participants and employees of occupational therapy workshops, environmental self-help homes, therapeutic centres, occupational activities facilities and many other daily residences where they find support, both health, psychological and social? That's where they can find each other and have a good time. At the same time, for families of these people it is a moment of rest, a moment when they can rest, but also settle their affairs. These people have been deprived of support and isolated overnight. Isn't that enough reason to deal with these people in a special way and finally inoculate this weakest group? Some of these units True, they have begun to operate, but they must be aware that this is a huge risk. My question is also about what criteria will be followed by the ministry when it comes to the qualification of chronically ill people for the first group? And the issue of social services homes. I have just heard very satisfying news that tomorrow is the end of inoculating the residents of social services homes. That's good, but I know and I've received a lot of such signals that social workers haven't been vaccinated yet (the bell) and the workers were supposed to be vaccinated in the first place. Minister! Please inform me of the quantitative nature: How many residents of help homes and how many workers of help homes have already been vaccinated? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u295	Thank you very much. Mrs Magdalena Sroka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u296	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! We are listening to all these statements here today, and I must say that I hear from you the word "chaos" and "chaos" and "chaos" and "chaos." And even if you repeat this chaos a hundred times, you will not change reality. A national vaccination programme has been established that has identified groups. I know that how many people are sitting in the courtroom talking about the next group: or maybe teachers, or maybe police workers, or maybe another social group should jump up higher than it is right now. Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, we are unable to inoculate all of them on one day, and we know that 3 million people are to be vaccinated in the first quarter. This is due not to the issue of unwillingness, but to the question of the quantity of supplies that reach Poland. But, Minister, because people with different questions about vaccination are asking my parliamentary office, please tell me whether the vaccines that go to the Polish market and come from different companies are just as safe or seniors don't have to worry about these vaccines when they go through the same procedures to get to our market. So that, ladies and gentlemen, less of the words "chaos" because, as you have said, your mouth has fallen, the pandemic has no political colors. Thank you very much. Management does.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u297	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u298	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Yesterday, the government officially informed the public of a change in the order of vaccination. This change concerns inter alia. patients with chronic diseases, regardless of date of birth. I asked for the acceleration of vaccination for people with multiple diseases, I asked, I appealed already on 12 January at the Parliamentary Panel meeting. Immunisation and Health Promotion. It is good that there has been a reflection on this subject, but it is not good that we hear in parallel in the information of the Prime Minister's head that the list of diseases authorising prior vaccination against COVID-19 will be included in the regulation, which is not even consulted at present. My question, then, is that when we learn the content of this regulation and the vitally important list of pre-vaccination diseases, so that everything is clear, transparent and understandable for everyone so that no one ever accuses anyone of pushing someone out of the line or taking someone's vaccine. Minister! In the national vaccination programme we can also find a list of diseases that entitle to faster vaccination. In this list there are such underlying diseases as: chronic kidney disease, neurological deficits such as dementia, lung disease, cancer, diabetes, chronic obstructive lung disease, cerebrovascular disease, hypertension, immunodeficiency, cardiovascular disease, chronic liver disease, obesity, diseases associated with nicotine addiction, bronchial asthma, thalassemia, cystic fibrosis and sickle asthma. Sickle anemia, not asthma. Minister! Will this list, which will be annexed to the regulation, which will entitle faster vaccination regardless of the metric, be the same list that is attached to the national vaccination programme? I'm asking you to explain this very precisely, because we don't want there to be any misunderstandings, any misconceptions... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. ...because it's a very sensitive subject. We can't position any of these diseases, because anyone who's contracted any of these chronic diseases... Thank you, Member. ...must have a sense of care by the state. Member, please don't abuse... He can expect an acceleration... Thank you. ...his expectations in the vaccination line. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u299	Mrs Józef Ruchrek-Żelazko, Law and Justice. Member, anemia, not sickle asthma. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u300	Dear Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! Pandemic is a crisis event that the world has not dealt with for at least several decades. Everyone was surprised, not only in Poland, but also in the world. The governments of each country took concrete measures that were initially aimed at stopping the transmission of the virus, protecting against the uncontrolled spread of pandemics. Then there were reports that we would have a vaccine, at first, remember, it was said that maybe two years from now, in a year and a half. At the end of the year there were reports that the vaccine would be at the beginning of 2021 and maybe even earlier. And it is. Ladies and gentlemen! The government has prepared a specific programme, a national vaccination programme, which the opposition had the opportunity to consult. Minister Dworczyk has just said that more than 2 000 have been received. Notes. These comments were analysed and this program was modified, the country saw, accepted. Therefore, we expect you to be with us to explain to all Poles how it is necessary to prepare for how this programme should be implemented, explaining the things that annoy them. However, the state in this room is still in a state of concern, talking about chaos, talking about mistrust, talking about wrong decisions. This really will not build the trust of Poles in the government, the trust of Poles in vaccination, which is so much needed. Do you remember that recently 20-30% of Poles declared their willingness to inoculate, at the moment we already have over 50 or 60%. Together, we should make sure that as many Poles as possible want to inoculate themselves. This is our role. And the fact that there are problems in the implementation of the national vaccination programme means that we, as parliamentarians in our districts, should help, raise awareness of local governments, other institutions, how they can help seniors, people in the DPS, or others who cannot cope. Here one of the Members spoke about district Poland, about the fact that we do not know what district Poland looks like. I know perfectly well because I work there. Right where I work, in my district, hospitals in Brzesk, in Bochnia, in Tarnów, in Dąbrowa Tarnowska [[♪ The bell ♪]] they have vaccinated all the workers who needed this vaccine, and the second doses are carried out in succession. So, ladies and gentlemen, let us work together to protect our nation from a pandemic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u301	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u302	Thank you kindly. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, we are at a crucial moment, the faster the vaccination process will go, the faster the economy will open, the faster we will return to normal life. Today the economy is dying and I have the impression that the Ministry of Health and the government of this They don't see it. I encourage you to come to Vistula, Ustronia, Cieszyna, Bielska-Biała, Pszczyna or Żywiec and see how these entrepreneurs, especially in tourist regions, die, fall like flies, because this support is lacking. As far as vaccination is concerned, of course seniors must be vaccinated as the most vulnerable, while the question is, what about teachers who go back to schools, what about trade, what about services. Shouldn't there be the other economic leg that will allow the economy to move back to normal? This is where the call for joint action was just a moment ago. We work together and promote vaccinations, and you can see the effects, and the spectacular increase in the desire to immunize is proof of that too. But I want to ask you about the role of public media. What are public media doing today? They're looking all over Europe for who's gonna buy the vaccine first. Is that really the most important thing today? Is this really what public media is supposed to do? After all, the public media should encourage Poles to immunize, promote vaccinations, inform, not invite those who are sceptical about this and, secondly, look across Europe where the vaccine was bought before. It's a total aberration, and it shows that there's some kind of double voice in this government. I'd also like to ask the Minister what about the supplies for the second vaccination. On the one hand, you have ensured that these stocks are, but there has been information in recent days that some people have not been vaccinated because [[♪ The bell ♪]] the individual cancelled those vaccinations. So what happened to the second vaccinations for some people being canceled? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u303	Thank you, sir. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u304	Mr Kaczyński, Chairman of the Committee on Security, Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is known that the second term of office is already practiced in churches. We have an example of Minister Emilewicz or lately Mr Kaczyński, that even a private mass is an opportunity for hateful tirade in relation to opponents. But I have a question: Is it also the time for the Church to do something good for its faithful in addition to hard politics? Why can't the Catholic Church get involved in an information campaign for a national vaccination program? Why isn't it helping? I mean, you guys have such good connections with church hierarchs. Couldn't they help with this national vaccination, say clearly that vaccination protects and saves lives, and not vaccination is a sin - I'll tell you in your language - is it a mortal sin against your neighbor? After all, priests have pulpits, they have media, they have state-owned billion-dollar subsidies, which is our money. So instead of going around and taking more money, and collecting these envelopes, and not going into apartments for fear of getting infected, it's not better to help seniors, for example. In an online registration that seniors can't handle? It's not like the government's running a sufficient information campaign. Seniors don't know much. They're going to their clinics and they think they're going to inoculate. Can't a priest in an pulpit tell you where the vaccination points are in every parish? That's really how he'd help everyone. Or maybe the bishops should be aware of their faithful... Ha, ha, he says it... ...that if Our Lady had lived in Jerusalem now, she would have been vaccinated long ago. She, Joseph and the baby, the whole family. [[Applause]] Member, shame... Thank you, Member. And I think it would be nice for you, Madame, to take care of your parliamentary work and helping people, not making a cabaret with the Sejm. Please, Mr Zdzisław Wolski. And I think... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...that your marshal has no right...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u305	Step out of the podium, please. Mr Zdzisław Wolski... This really isn't a cabaret, Member. Cabaret. Shame! Disgraceful! You're welcome, sir. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u306	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! After this heated discussion, I wanted to address some of the issues that have been raised here. I'm a doctor. I think I'm following pretty well - I'm talking about accusations - what appears on the pages of the Ministry of Health, and I have a lot of theoretical knowledge, but also my own as an active doctor of POZ. There was a lot about moral, ethical considerations. I would probably be able to inoculate myself in the previous year on my own initiative, but I didn't inoculate myself until January, because I thought that the staff working in the S.R.S., on the COVID troops, was more vulnerable than the P.O.D. doctors. But I'm referring to the chaos issue, the fact that we create chaos. Let me just remind you that as from the north began records with appointments for seniors 80+, phones stopped, the IT system almost didn't work, there were various mistakes, patients gathered under clinics, in the cold, trying to sign up, and the health fund issued contradictory recommendations, even during records - so much can be written down, not so much, until 31 March and beyond. There was chaos. Is there going to be chaos tonight from the north when it comes to 70+ people, because the situation can happen again? I would also like to ask, because there is very little time, how does the government intend to solve the issue of vaccination at home, the away teams that are? I remind you that there will be a lot of difficulties, because many seniors will not be able to or should not arrive. Departures will be complicated because there's at least a time factor. Pfizer, 2 hours or 6 hours at room temperature, [[♪ The bell ♪]] is There's six doses, or 10 for Moderny's vaccine. How will this be solved to protect the oldest seniors of 80+? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u307	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, as corrected. Thank you for your patience, but I didn't want it to be at the expense of other parliamentarians so they wouldn't have time to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u308	Of course. I will be, Your Marshal, with such patience and attention to listen to the Minister's reply. But I wanted to correct Mrs Pamula's misunderstood speech. Unfortunately, it is not only today that you are trying to mix up two cleanings from this tribune. The government's Local Investment Fund that didn't give them hospitals... It's not marshals, is it? But I was talking about county hospitals they didn't get. The Reichs didn't get the money. I told you Mielec got $3 million for a project worth $18 million. If we keep digging, it turns out that the Marshal's office was given to renovate the toilet, and the hospitals didn't get the money. They're hit. And that's the truth. 20 million. Minister, I'd like you to tell me about this chaos, however, because certain groups, groups of prosecutors and age groups, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which you pointed out in the Seym and in the Senate were different and therefore chaos. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u309	Thank you, Member. Ladies and gentlemen! Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Mrs Barbara Dziuk. Madame, I would like to invite you to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u310	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I've listened to all the speeches of the parliamentarians. One thing I can do is to sum up that health is not political. You are now accusing the ministry of how the entire vaccination cycle is conducted, how the records are kept. You complain, you criticize, with no arguments or strategy. I want to remind you that in the plan that was about vaccination... And facts, because let's talk about facts. Vaccinations were not scheduled until mid-January. Thanks to the efforts of both the Prime Minister and the Minister and the entire government, these vaccinations began earlier. All over Europe. And again, you're dissatisfied. You are dissatisfied with everything the Ministry of Health does, as it is now giving large financial resources in various kinds of crisis situations. You are dissatisfied with the empathy and kindness of Poles because Poles want to vaccinate themselves. And you question the decisions of those who are on the first line of work, that is, the decisions of the Ministry of Health. These people deserve respect. You have to respect doctors, nurses. They need help. It's better to use energy for help, not criticism, because it's not criticism. You're running a policy out of chairs and couches. Ladies and gentlemen! I appeal to you: together let's make sure we get back to normal. Normality can happen when we're inoculated. I am full of admiration for the Minister's actions, who can answer with great kindness questions that are unreasonable, because you have asked many of these questions unfoundedly, questions that are not translated into facts. Currently Poles are vaccinated. There's the first dose, there's the second dose. Everything is going according to schedule and accepted principles of this whole organization. We all want normality, but we all have to take care of that normality. In November, regardless of the appeals, you led Poles to the streets, which in turn intensified the development of the pandemic. I hope that today's debate will affect the fact that these illegal gatherings will end and we will not expose Poles to even wider spread of health problems that are caused by the COVID virus. I have an appeal to you to defeat Coronavirus together so that we can be responsible for ourselves and for others, and that we really can rise above what divides us, because we have health and life in common. Health and life is a priceless gift that we should all take care of together. Once again, I wanted to thank the Ministry of Health that it reacts very quickly to various kinds of problems and creates a situation where each Pole feels safe. I am counting on your cooperation, not on torpedoing the good work of the government and the direction that the government has now taken to defeat Coronavirus. Ladies and gentlemen! Together, let's beat the coritos. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u311	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of the Minister of Health of Mr Adam Niedzielski. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u312	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I wanted to say that I am very happy that once again we have the opportunity to talk about what is the most important challenge in the life of all Poles at the moment, because what is happening, and this devastation that has occurred in the pandemic in the last 9 months, has affected the lives of each of us, not only the health life, but also the economic life, the life of our children, the life of our parents. This is a problem that is now really the biggest challenge. And there's nothing to say about the fact that there are more important challenges right now. Therefore, all the State's resources, the State's funds in terms of the unprecedented ones so far, organisational measures that integrate the efforts of all ministries, all public institutions, are aimed at combating COVID. Starting with this statement, I wanted to comment on what Mrs Skowrońska said, which unfortunately left the room, but yes, indeed this morning in an interview on one of the televisions, because the question was whether I sometimes regret taking up the position of Minister of Health, I said yes, there are moments. And these are the moments when I hear a lot of inaccuracies, a lot of blanks, a lot of completely wrong arguments, a lot of information that is only fake news. And then, so now that we want to talk about them, there's a little less people in the courtroom. Nobody wants to hear the answers anymore, and we're having a conversation that's just making statements, not talking. Well, together with Minister Dworczyk, creating an atmosphere around the national vaccination programme, we try not to make statements, just to make it an atmosphere of conversation, dialogue, and sometimes of conversation and discussion, which has the character of showing opposing positions, which does not end in compromise, but in conversation and at least trying to understand the other side. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the national vaccination programme is changing and will change. It's changing in different ways. Of course, now we are discussing the issue of the order of vaccination, but it will change as the rate of vaccination will evolve, deliveries to Poland, as we will learn from certain situations that affect it. But please from this place, let's not colportage untested messages, let's not give any further heard stories without verification, because really the number of information that I also unfortunately heard today in the Chamber, which are false, have nothing to do with reality, is simply appalling, and that is said by the Members of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I hear, for example. from Mrs Shumilas, that we included prosecutors in group zero, or comparisons of Britain and what is happening in Scotland, with Poland, while you know very well that in the UK the vaccination process started earlier, a few weeks before Poland, because there is an independent agency for medicines that issues and which issued them earlier due to the exit from the European Union. It's obvious that older people have been vaccinated there before. I only receive such voices as voices whose purpose is not to build dialogue is not to seek improvement, but simply to shout out their argument so that it is heard publicly, in the glare of cameras, lights and flashes. But its value is zero. A very good example of this (Bingle) discussion is the discussion about temporary hospitals, which today was very much discussed. Ladies and gentlemen, I remember very well what summer and then September looked like when I became Minister of Health. The voices that were around were saying that we weren't prepared for the coming wave, that there was nothing left. made that there is no supply, there is no organizational preparation. Without discussing, although these are not arguments, because we bought a lot of equipment... At that time it was the dominant vote on the part of the opposition - that we were not prepared. Now that we've gone through the second wave, which cost us a lot of lives, it's cost us a great deal of effort not only medical personnel who fought directly on the first line, but also the economy, the entrepreneurs, and we've left these hospitals temporary just to be prepared and not to have a third wave so bad that they don't get exposed to the lack of ability of health care, which is the argument? That they have to be shut down, that they're for what. Well, if they weren't there, you'd say we were completely unprepared for the third wave. This discussion should have some rational, reasonable boundaries. Although let's consider that there is a system of values. Either we appreciate the value of preparation for what awaits us, or we settle financially. various issues which have no justification. It will be difficult if the third wave does not appear, to say that temporary hospitals were superefficient from a financial point of view. Mr President, this will not be the case. They're empty for now. They stand empty and I beg them to stand empty all the time. [[Applause]] But we're straining them. That was my question. And we're going to vaccinate. We'll be vaccinated in temporary hospitals, just have those vaccines come in. Ladies and gentlemen! A few more precise information so we know where we stand. Let me start by saying that, actually, as we all know, we have a reduction in supplies. This rate of weekly deliveries decreased from 330 thousand. up to 180 thousand, or even originally planned $350,000. This week, and it was 180,000, which means we have a halve reduction. With regard to the number of vaccines that have been sent to individual vaccination points this week - I am talking about vaccinations of doctors and DPS - this number is around 240 and 250 thousand. So, the way we manage vaccines so far, the way we put it off for the second dose, and, I agree, the conservative approach to vaccination... I have limited confidence in all suppliers and, together with Minister Dworczyk, we are primarily concerned with our business, and we do not give in to various pressures, because we have waited through certain pressures and found out that we are one of the few wise in Europe. Thanks to this, with the drop in deliveries by half, we have the comfort that practically the rate of vaccination will be reduced little. Ladies and gentlemen! That's the consequence. just rational solutions, planning and management. Therefore, on this occasion I would like to protest against the abuse of the word 'chaos'. I'll be honest, you can't say it's chaos or say it's a success. You can't say that. So far, we've got some momentum in our immunization and all the evaluations that are now being issued are premature. And already their unambiguous content that we are in a chaotic world... After hearing such an expression, I am afraid to leave the Sejm, because I understand that there will be ruins outside. But I'm gonna go out there and there's not gonna be any of that shit. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, deliveries have decreased by half, the rate of vaccination is reduced, I admit, but it is not reduced at the rate at which the deliveries have been reduced. What we're trying to do in this situation is primarily to increase deliveries, because this is the narrowest throat in this situation. It is clear that the number of vaccinations, the number of people who date, must not exceed the number of vaccinations that are declared for Poland. We have confirmed a new supply schedule for Pfizer, according to which from next week we are returning to normal deliveries of about 330 and 350 thousand. once a week, but after two weeks, which is from mid-February, we will have a supply allowance to compensate us for what has now been lost, because deliveries will be for at least two to three weeks around at least 400 thousand, instead of 350 thousand. primary. So that in three weeks this loss will be compensated for, and we will use the reserves that we've done to prevent it from happening during the transition period, when it's reduced. Besides, and this is very important, Moderny's vaccine has appeared. In the first quarter we will have a total of about 800,000. In general, all we have summarized for the first quarter in delivery schedules is 5600 thousand. vaccines, which means that in the first quarter according to this delivery schedule we can inoculate up to 2800 people. This is below our capacity for 3 months, because there is still a good chance that on 29 January the European Commission, specifically the European Medicines Agency, will decide to allow a new product, i.e. the AstraZeneca vaccine, to which we are to have an additional 5 million or almost 6 million in the first quarter, and immediately at the beginning of the second quarter there will be another 10 million. So that would significantly improve our vaccination situation. I think the second quarter at all will be the time when we're going to have a really big increase in the rate of vaccination. As far as vaccination is concerned, this is not something that exhausts our need for vaccination rates, because we have been contracted so far - please note that these are vaccines that are confirmed in parallel with vaccines that do not yet have them - more than 60 million doses, of which one Johnson & Johnson vaccine is single-dose, at least at the research stage where they are now and have not submitted an application to the EMA. Thus, a large proportion of these vaccines will unfortunately also appear in the second half of the year. What we want to do is speed up by buying a real, non-paper-available vaccine, not in the contract, but in the really available Pfizer vaccine, which is why we decided to participate in the additional European purchase mechanism. Because in addition to the original contract, which was implemented in the formula of 200 + 100 million - let me remind you that our parity is 8%, 8% with a piece - we entered into a second contract with Pfizer, which also has a formula of 200 + 100 million. Originally we had over 16 million Pfizer vaccines reserved, but additionally by the end of the year there will be 25 million, of which 10 million maybe in the first half of the year, because we have such initial announcements. This would mean that we will be able to really speed up vaccination in the second quarter because AstraZeneca vaccine will appear because there will be an additional amount of Pfizer vaccines, and even in these categories we will have much more. So much for deliveries. The second issue that has been going through your questions is the question of signing up for vaccinations. Signing up for vaccination, as you know, has three channels. It is not true what Mr Nitras said that not all POZs can vaccinate. It was a matter of declaration, because as far as equipment standards are concerned, each POZ meets the requirements that the NFZ has defined. They were also modified at some point in view of the expectations of family doctors. We've got about 6,000. Vaccination syndromes, of which 4,000, a little more, because 70% These are the bands that are operating in POZ. But they're not all POZs, some of them weren't interested in getting into it, because sometimes they just can't handle it organizationally either, because it's an extra effort. This is an additional effort, because POZ must serve standard incoming patients. Besides, we have electronic channels that relate to the Internet and the phone. I don't know if this is going to be surprising for you, but despite the availability of these channels, the queues were lined up at the POZ. Even though you could call, people - I don't know whether it's out of habit or simply out of some belief that it's better to have it tangiblely, on paper, with a signature - came to Poz points and lined up. These people, of course, will also be saved. It seems that even if from the point of view of some of us it is incomprehensible that these queues were set, it is a range or a palette of solutions that we have proposed that supports every habit: telephone, Internet. It is known that in a group of more advanced age Internet will not be dominant, but there was a phone call, there are consultants who help. I'm not saying it looks perfect because there's always stumbling around, but the question is whether we're doing it in good faith or if we're doing it in bad faith. Unfortunately, I see that some of you approach this in bad faith, interpreting small situations as at least an explosion of an atomic bomb. And it's just unfair to make a case. Minister, you're going to have to move so slowly to the end. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the responsibility for vaccination is concerned, there was a very long discussion here, because we have a standard way of pursuing compensation in the form of civil proceedings. But because we were aware that there were fears and concerns about the fact that this is a new vaccine, that in the sense of some people it was not sufficiently investigated, although this study was thoroughly carried out, in accordance with the same procedure as with other medicines and other vaccines that are released on the market, we decided to set up a compensation fund which, in a simplified manner, without excessive costs of seeking compensation, will compensate for the effects of undesirable vaccination reactions. We even have a taxi driver. The maximum level of this compensation is 100,000, starting at 10,000. in the case of 14-day hospitalisation associated, of course, with this adverse post-vaccination reaction. But I would like to point out that millions of vaccine pieces, especially Pfizer, have already been used in the world. These are millions of people already vaccinated. In our country, it's 565,000, at least according to my latest information. And we actually have 195 unwanted graft reactions, one of which, according to my knowledge, is a heavy one that required hospitalization, and the others were light, which was itching, fatigue and other minor ailments. So here we take financial responsibility for this because we understand these fears, but also with such conviction that we know that the scale of this will be minimal. Minimum. Ladies and gentlemen! The sequence of vaccinations. This is, of course, a subject that causes a lot of emotion, but again, I think there's too much politics in it. I'm gonna say something that can be enlightening to everyone, but you can't inoculate them all at once and everywhere. You can't do that. You have to divide the population into groups. Of course, different criteria can lead to this. And it was based, as you can see, above all, on the criterion of the protection of the health care system, which is that we can treat patients who are affected in a stable manner, that is why there are doctors, that is why there is a broad understanding of staff, because we are not only trying to ensure that doctors are not sick, but that hospitals are functioning, and that the functioning of hospitals is not just a domain or the merit of doctors and nurses, because there are other professions, also the administration... Minister, you're gonna have to get to the end of this. Okay, I'll be done. So here the groups are so defined. As far as the prosecutors are concerned, yes, they were considered officers. The issue of state security is also important. But I would like to point out that in those groups that were in the regulation, they are at the end and therefore, even in the first quarter, there is no real time because of the delivery of the vaccine so that this can happen. Ladies and gentlemen, these threads, of course, were much more, but I understand, Your Marshal, that time is inexcusable. Therefore, I ask you very much on behalf of yourself, Prime Minister, Minister Dworczyk, all those who are involved and are working very hard to ensure that the organisation of this vaccination system is professional and that, of course, where vaccinations are carried out, it is safe and comfortable, for support, for the national vaccination programme to be a common good. Let's leave the fights and the fuss for when we can say the pandemic is under control, and it won't be a real threat. Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo! And the list of diseases... Is it true that Poland has signed...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u313	Thank you very much, Minister, for your calm and substantive speech. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. I'm declaring a time-out. 17, when we get to the voting block. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 min. 39 hrs. 17 min 05]] I'm reopening the session. I ask all Members to stand, if I may. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] High Izbo! Colonel Lydia Lwow-Eberle died on 5 January 2021. Eve and Lala, a veteran of the underworld of independence. During World War II she began serving in the partisan division of the Home Army. Anthony Burzyńskiego, Kmicica and then in 5. Vilnius Brigade AK rtm. Zygmunt the Szendzielarz of Szupęski. She participated in clashes with Germans and Soviet guerrillas. As a paramedic, she provided sacrificial help to her colleagues. She didn't leave them even when she was wounded in the battle of the Vorzians. In August 1944, with the remnants of the brigade, it moved to areas covered by the operation of the Białystok district of the AK. Between 1944 and 1947, she was accompanied by Major. In the fight against the communist apparatus of terror in Białystok, Pomerania, Warmia and Mazury. Advanced to the rank of lieutenant in August 1945. Arrested in Osielec, Podhale in June 1948, she was sentenced to life imprisonment. She was held in prisons in Fordon and Inowroclaw and was released from prison in January 1957. Involved in commemorating the cursed, cheerful and modest soldiers, she emanated warmth, kindness, and kindness toward the people. Until the end of her days, she manifested her attachment to patriotic values. Let's celebrate her memory with a moment of silence. [[A moment of silence]] Give her eternal rest, Lord... ...and let the light shine upon it. Give her eternal rest, Lord... ...and let the light shine upon it. Give her eternal rest, Lord... ...and let the light shine upon it. May he rest in eternal peace. Amen. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now entering into a quorum. I would like to ask all Members to press any button to confirm their presence at the meeting. You're welcome. 434 Members shall take part in the deliberations. I'm declaring a quorum. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Law on specific arrangements related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws, - strategic reserves, - amending the Prison Service Act, the Law on the prevention and eradication of infectious diseases and infectious diseases in humans, and the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, - amending the law - Code of Administrative Procedure and certain other laws. The reports are in prints Nos 879, 885, 888 and 895 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau submitted a draft resolution on the detention of Aleksey Navalny, print No 905. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: First reading of the draft resolution tabled by the Bureau of the Sejm on the detention of Aleksey Navalny (Print No 905). I ask Vice-Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska to present the justification for the draft resolution. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have an important decision ahead of us. An important decision regarding the support of a brave man - Aleksey Navalny. I regret that there is no agreement between one of our House's groups so that we can accept this project by acclamation, as should be adopted by such projects - projects that express our solidarity with brave people, with people who fight for matters that are important to us all, for the possibility of living in a democratic state. Allow me to present the content of the draft resolution. The detention of Alexey Navalny on 17 January during his attempt to return to Russia and the judgment of the court of 18 January of his temporary arrest in a few months after his failed attempt to poison him proves that the Russian authorities continue their path of oppression, using the entire apparatus of power to persecute their own society. Systemic harassment against Aleksey Navalny is just one of many examples of repression and persecution of citizens of the Russian Federation who actively engage in public life, reveal the system of political corruption and abuse of power by representatives of the authoritarian regime and show the scale of distortions in Russia. Political censorship, restrictions on civil rights and freedom of expression, With regard to Aleksey Navalny, a scheme has already been chosen for other uncomfortable people - accusations of corruption and fraud. According to international lawyers and experts, he was sentenced to suspended prison in violation of the laws of Russia and the right to an objective trial. All of these actions were driven by one goal - to prevent Aleksey Navalny from running for office and to force him to cease his activities. However, this was not sufficient - it was decided to exclude it completely from public life. The return of Aleksey Navalny to Russia, despite his full awareness of the danger, bears witness to the admirable personal courage and strength of his beliefs. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland calls on the authorities of the Russian Federation to cease repression of Aleksey Navalny and his associates and to release the detained immediately. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland calls on the authorities of the Russian Federation to conduct an objective investigation into the attempt to poison Aleksey Navalny and punish the perpetrators of this act. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland calls on the authorities of the Russian Federation to respect the fundamental obligations towards its citizens resulting from the adopted acts of international law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u314	Thank you, Marshal. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the first reading of the draft resolution? Mr Krystian Kaminski, the Confederation, came forward. I'm setting the time... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I volunteered. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yeah, yeah, in order. I propose that the Sejm listen to 1.5-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Is there anyone else besides your Marshal Kidawa-Błońska who would like to join the list? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Good. In that case, the list of MEPs was closed. Three Members have come forward. I'm opening a discussion. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u315	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This draft resolution is a textbook example of a lack of understanding, or perhaps a conscious rejection of what real politics is in foreign affairs. Shame on you! The Bureau of the Sejm - PiS, PO, PSL, SLD - proposed a curial draft resolution on the attempt to poison and arrest Navalny. The text is emotional, and the lack of professionalism is evident. He goes up to the heavens of Naval, which, if he ruled Russia today, would do nothing but today's rulers. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] It would support, for example, the Nord Stream project, which each of us has criticised in this Chamber. But you're pathetic. That is why we propose a draft resolution, which is professional in what it is going to do. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland expresses its concern about events in the Russian Federation related, among others. with an attempt to poison and stop the famous oppositionist Alexander Navalny. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland expects a quick and transparent investigation into the attempt to murder Aleksey Navalny, as well as respect for legal standards by the state authorities of the Russian Federation. That's how all the other countries in the world behave. The mask, sir. Only the state has to write that emotional brute again that they only laugh at in the world. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u316	Thank you very much. Here you go, Margaret Kidawa-Błońska. Interview for Sputnik.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u317	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I was hoping that we would adopt this resolution in the Sejm by acclamation. I would remind you that in this room we once claimed Mr. Sencov and our appeals, our actions caused him to be freed. What happened in Russia, the arrest of a man who has the courage to speak and judge the authorities, has the courage to run for office, shows that the whole so-called. Russian democracy is a facade. We as a nation, as a society, have repeatedly experienced that people of other political beliefs have been detained, oppressed, humiliated. That's why we have a moral duty to always beg for people who are being harassed, regardless of where it would be in the country. A very strong voice should come out of our Sejm that we are demanding the release of Mr. Navalny and his associates. It cannot be that in our eyes people are deprived of fundamental rights, rights of freedom - the rights make democracy - and expressing their views. I hope that the High House will adopt this resolution and that we will be in one voice asking for human freedom. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u318	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u319	Responsibility for democracy, responsibility for Europe and the world in which we live is not political. We should be responsible for international policy and recognise the dangers where they arise, while at the same time being able to express ourselves whenever rights, civil liberties are violated. The resolution of the Sejm, which is to support Aleksey Navalny, gives the chance that Polish foreign policy will come out of the dream, that whenever necessary, we will react and that we will never, as in the case of events on the Capitol, bury their heads in the sand. This resolution is a common matter and those on the right, and those on the left, because Poland on the map of Europe is today where it was 300 and 500 years ago and where it will be in the future. We can't change the neighbors. The authorities that are with these neighbours are either democratic or anti-democratic. The ability to see it here and now is the ability to think strategically about the Polish interest. All those who don't see him today are condemning Poland to existence in Europe and in the world. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u320	Thank you very much. As the last Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u321	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are Poland at the beginning of the 21st century. We are especially obliged to respond to such situations as are happening today around the person of Alexey Navalny in Russia. This situation resembles a very similar situation that took place many years ago, after World War II, when the communist regime was installed in our country. The person who also returned, knowing that she was being chased, perhaps prison, perhaps death, was Stanisław Mikołajczyk. All the more so today, experienced with its history, we should as the Sejm of the Republic of Poland in agreement, but also dignifiedly express our support for the person who found himself in a situation that is taking place behind our eastern border, and warn this regime, which there thinks that everyone can be treated in an unworthy way, that sooner or later the days of such a regime will be numbered. We're a club. The Polish coalition for this, your marshal, to adopt this resolution in a manner worthy of today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u322	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. I propose that the Sejm immediately proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the second reading of the draft resolution? No one's checking in. The discussion is closed... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr. President, I asked if anyone was coming in. No one volunteered. Enough embarrassment. Here he is, sir. No one's heard. Okay, here you go. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u323	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We don't know what's going on in Russia. We know. We don't know. We know, for example, that Mr. Navalny and his brother Oleg were charged with the operation of the company whose boss Mr. Alexei Navalny was. His brother got his sentence, and he didn't get his own. He's on probation, and he's leaving peacefully. We don't know who's playing Mr. Navalny. Marshal, come in. There are voices that this is Mr. Putin's man prepared to be his successor in such a way that you... There are different voices. And speaking out like we know for sure what's going on out there is just a misunderstanding. We're making fun of each other. We don't know for sure what's in there. Of course, I'm in favour of the Russian authorities doing an investigation into this poison. It's necessary. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, speaking in a case where you don't know what's going on is simply embarrassing yourself. We don't mind. But, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to talk about democracy. If there was democracy in Russia, the majority would say to invade Poland. Luckily, there's no democracy there. Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u324	Thank you very much. Mr Sławomir Nitras will speak on behalf of the Civic Coalition. There you go. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u325	I apologize in advance, but I am only speaking because this voice is not the last voice in the discussion. In the Polish Sejm, we must remember that Navalny was arrested for breaking parole, while he was poisoned and was in hospital. That's what you have to remember. [[Applause]] I remember how in the 1980s politicians said, like you, that if Poland became a democracy, it would not be a stable country. Every democratic country, every nation has the right to freedom. The Russians also have the right to freedom. Russia is threatening its neighbours, including us, because it is not a democratic country. And it is important to show respect for Nawal, not to tell him what he would do if he was in charge. He needs to be respected, because he is fighting for Russia - Poland to fight for it once, not so long ago - to be a democratic country. Democratic Russia is safer for Poland, it is safer for the world. [[Applause]] Exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u326	Thank you. The discussion is closed. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution in print 905, presented in full by the Bureau of the Sejm, would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 438 - for, 1 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm has adopted a resolution on the detention of Aleksey Navalny. [[Applause]] We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report of the National Defence Commission on the Government bill amending the Act on the Protection of Persons and Property and the Act on the Military Gendarmery and Military Ordering Authorities. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 896. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 896 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 330 for, 1 against, 120 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Act on the Protection of Persons and Property and the Act on the Military Gendarmery and Military Enforcement Authorities. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the Public Finance Commission's report on the government draft law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 892. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 892, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 435 for, 11 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws. We return to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the government draft law amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws. The additional committee report is in print No 884-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Robert Warwas to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u327	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the government draft law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws, print No. 858. At its meeting yesterday, the Sejm re-directed the bill to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to consider three amendments tabled at second reading by the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club. After considering the amendments at yesterday's meeting, the Commission asks that the High House reject the amendments and therefore adopt the draft law without amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u328	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 884. At the same time, the Commission presents a minority proposal and an additional report on the amendments that we will be voting on first. In the minority proposal to Article. The 87th Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund proposes to add paragraph. 1c. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of a minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 213 - for, 230 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the first amendment to Article. 6 the draft law amending the applicant proposes to give a new wording to paragraph. 1. Amendments 2 and 3 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 1, 2 and 3 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 209 - for, 233 - against, 12 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 884, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 438 - for, 2 - against, with a hold of 8. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws. We are returning to the review of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the Government's draft law on the next in 2021 additional annual financial provision for pensioners. The additional committee report shall be in print No 883-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Borowiak to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u329	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, I present an additional report on the Government's draft law on the next in 2021 additional annual payment for pensioners and pensioners, print No 280. The committee's report is contained in print No 883-A. This project implements the government's announcement to extend additional assistance to pensioners, in addition to the introduction of the 13th pension in the form of a 14th pension for the group of more than 9 million people in 2021 for a total amount of over PLN 11 billion. Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy at its meeting on 20 January considered the amendments made at second reading. Three amendments have been approved. The Commission recommends rejecting them, bearing in mind that amendments 2 and 3 must be voted together. At the same time, the committee asks the High Sejm to adopt this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u330	Thank you, Member. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act 883. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. The applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph 3. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 197 - for, 237 - against, 17 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 14 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 1. Amendment 3 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 2 and 3 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 205 - for, 231 - against, 14 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 883, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 420 for, 19 against, 12 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law on the next in 2021 additional annual cash benefits for pensioners and pensioners. [[Applause]] We return to item 5 on the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Committee on: The additional committee report shall be in print No 840-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u331	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I would like to present an additional report on the draft amendments to the Act - Road traffic law: Parliamentary projects in print No 48 and 803 and government draft in print No 802. I would like to state that the committee, after considering the 36 amendments tabled during the second reading, recommends that the High Sejm accept Amendment 35 and reject the other amendments. Finally, I would like to stress that this draft amendment to the Road Traffic Law is a very important example of an active and informed policy-making which is aimed at protecting health and life in road traffic. This project, if adopted by the High House - and this, I think, is a definite one, because all parliamentary clubs supported it - is, above all, also a huge opportunity to improve road safety. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u332	Thank you very much. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 840. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. 1 The applicant shall propose to delete point 1. This amendment is combined with the 25th amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of the amendments from 2 to 7 and from 26th to 28. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 25 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 28 - for, 423 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. 1 applicants propose to make a different wording of point 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of amendments from 3 to 7. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 16 - for, 438 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 1 applicants propose to make a different wording of point 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of the amendments from 4. to 7. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 16 - for, 437 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 1 applicants propose in point 1 inter alia. add c-e. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of the amendments from 5. to 7. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 16 - for, 437 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 1 Applicants shall propose an amendment to point 1 (a). a. Amendments 6 and 28 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will render the 7th amendments and the 26th and 27th amendments irrelevant. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments 5, 6 and 28 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 175 - for, 278 - against, abstained 2. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 7th amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose in point 1 to add a different wording to point 1. b. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 17 - for, 437 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of amendments 9 and 10. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 15 for, 390 against, 47 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. 1 applicants propose in point 2 to add a new amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 14 - for, 436 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the article. 1 applicants shall propose an amendment to point 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 148 for, 278 against, 24 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 11th amendment to the article. 1 applicants propose to add point 2a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will result in an unobjectability of the 12th amendment. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 15 - for, 433 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. 1 applicants propose to add point 2a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 17 - for, 437 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 13th amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 3. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of amendments 14 and 15. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 16 - for, 431 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 14th amendment to the article. 1 applicants propose to make a different wording of point 3. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will result in an unobtrusive 15th amendment. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 16 - for, 436 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 15th amendment to the article. 1 applicants propose to make a different wording of point 3. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 15th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 16 - for, 439 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 16th amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 4. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of the amendments from 17th to 22nd. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 16th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 11 - for, 437 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 17th amendment to the article. 1 applicants propose to make a different wording of point 4. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 17th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 10 for, 442 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 18th amendment to the article. 1 applicants propose in point 4 to add point. c. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 18th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 11 - for, 440 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 19th amendment to the article. 1 applicants propose in point 4 to add point. c. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will render amendments 20 and 21. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 19th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 12 - for, 436 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 20th amendment to the article. 1 applicants propose in point 4 to add point. c. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 21. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 20th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 13 - for, 432 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 21st amendment to the article. 1 applicants propose in point 4 to add point. c. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 21st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 16 - for, 434 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 22nd amendment to the article. 1 applicants propose in point 4 to add point. c. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 22nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 14 - for, 436 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 23rd amendment to the article. 1 applicants propose to add point 4a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 23rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 15 - for, 439 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 24th amendment to the article. 1 applicants propose to add point 4b. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 24th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 16 - for, 436 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 26th amendment to the article. 1 applicants propose to make a different wording of point 5. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 27. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 26th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 14 - for, 433 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 27th amendment to Article. 1 applicants propose to make a different wording of point 5. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 27th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 17 - for, 437 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 29th amendment to the article. 1 applicants propose to add a new point. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 29th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 15 for, 436 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 30th amendment to the article. 1 applicants propose to add a new point. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 30th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 13 - for, 436 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 31st amendment to Article. 1 applicants propose to add a new point. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 31st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 15 - for, 433 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 32nd amendment to the article. 1 applicants propose to add a new point. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 32nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 15 for, against -434, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 33rd amendment to the article. 1 applicants propose to add a new point. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 33rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 11 for, against - 438, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 34th amendment, applicants propose to make a different wording of the Article. 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will render amendments 35 and 36. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 34th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 13 - for, 431 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 35th amendment, applicants propose to make a different wording of the Article. 2. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Its adoption will make the 36th amendment futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 35th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 294 - for, against - 37, 121 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendment 36. has become unobtrusive. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 840, together with one amendment, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 423 - for, 22 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Road Traffic Law Act. We would like to return to the discussion of item 7 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the establishment of 2021 Year of Alexander Ładoś. The additional committee report shall be in print No 633-A. I ask Mrs Joanna Lichocka to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u333	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I present an additional report to the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the establishment of 2021 by the Year of Alexander Ładoś. At its meeting on 20 January 2021, the Sejm re-directed the draft resolution in print No 613 to the Committee on Culture and Media for the purpose of considering the amendment tabled at second reading. The Committee on Culture and Media, after considering the amendment at its meeting on 21 January 2021, requested that the High Sejm adopt this amendment and the draft resolution as a whole. The amendment consists in a change of title. A draft resolution on the Year of the Ładosia Group is proposed. The content is also changing because we want to commemorate not only Alexander Ładoś, but also his associates. In 2021, the 80th anniversary of the start of the rescue of Jews from the extermination by the Polish Parliament in Switzerland Bern. Using diplomatic status, representatives of the Republic of Poland, with the knowledge and support of the Polish government in exile and in cooperation with Jewish organizations, including the World Jewish Congress, secretly organized one of the largest shares in World War II in the fabrication of passports and their transfer to people in ghettos and camps. Aleksander Ładoś - Polish Ambassador in Bern, headed this group of diplomats. So-called. The group of Ładosia was co-founded by Polish diplomats from the institution in Bern: Stefan Jan Ryniewicz, Konstanty Rokicki, Juliusz Kühl and leaders of Jewish organizations: Chaim Eiss and Abraham Silberschein. Between 1941 and 1945, the members of the Ładosia group organized a secret system for obtaining passports and issuing certificates, and one of them - the consul Ksawery Rokicki - filled out almost half of the documents by hand. They were smuggled into occupied Europe, including German ghettos in Polish lands, to document the alleged citizenship of Paraguay, Honduras, Haiti or Peru by their holders. The action was up to 10,000. Jewish nationality. In addition to the Latin American documents, Alexander Ładoś and diplomats of the Republic of Poland also issued Polish documents enabling the escape from France under the Vicha collaborative regime. Aleksander Ładoś also sent reports by the Jews and the Polish Underground State on the extermination of the Jewish nation carried out by Germany by radio to the Allied States. He was probably one of the first diplomats to alert the world of destruction. In this resolution the Polish Sejm for commemorating the effectiveness and dedication of Polish diplomats and their Jewish and Polish collaborators establishes 2021 as the Year of the Ładosia Group. I ask all of you to support this resolution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u334	Thank you. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 633. The Commission sets out in an additional report an amendment on which we will vote first. In the amendment, the applicant proposes a new wording of the draft resolution. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The adoption of this amendment will result in the adoption of a resolution as proposed by the applicants and in the non- objectivity of the committee's proposal. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment and, therefore, in favour of adopting the resolution as proposed by the applicants, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 446 - for, 2 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm adopted the amendment and thus adopted a resolution on the establishment of 2021 as the Year of the Ładosia Group. At this we have concluded the examination of the draft resolution. We return to the consideration of item 11 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on dealing with complaints and disputes of clients of financial market entities and about the Financial Education Fund. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Public Finance Committee for consideration. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print No 834, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 206 - for, 233 - against, 12 stopped. The Sejm rejected the application and thus referred this draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. We return to the examination of item 12. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the excise duty law and some other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Public Finance Committee for consideration. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print No 860 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 195 - for, 256 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the application and thus referred this draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. We return to the review of item 14 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on amending the law on government departments and some other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this proposal to the Administrative and Home Affairs Committee for consideration. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print No 897 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 219 - for, 234 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the proposal and sent it to the Administrative and Home Affairs Commission for consideration. We are returning to the examination of item 13 of the Foreign Affairs Committee's report on the Government's draft Foreign Service Act. During the second reading of the bill, a motion was made to reject the draft law in its entirety. An objection was raised in the light of the request for immediate entry into the third reading of the draft law without reference to the committee. I will therefore put this proposal to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has re-directed this draft law to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is for immediate accession to the third reading of the bill without sending the bill back to the committee will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 238 for, 215 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm has accepted the motion. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 904. In the first place, I will put to the vote the motion to reject the bill submitted in the discussion. The adoption of this proposal will render the proposals of the committee irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 213 - for, 238 - against, 4 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 904, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 237 - for, 213 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm passed the Foreign Service Act. We return to the review of item 16 of the agenda: First reading of the Senate bill amending the law - Code of Civil Procedure and some other laws. In the discussion, a request was made to proceed immediately to the second reading of the bill, which I will put to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting the request to proceed immediately to the second reading of the draft law contained in print 584, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 214 for, 239 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm's motion is denied. On the basis of the article. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I am directing this draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications for consideration. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finances on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws (prints Nos 879 and 893). I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u335	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Senate Resolution on the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws, prints Nos 879 and 893. On 14 January this year, the Marshal of the Sejm addressed the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. The Committee on Public Finance, after considering this resolution at its meeting on 19 January this year, proposes to the High Sejm: of the 23 amendments of the Senate to accept 16 amendments, seven reject, including amendments 6 and 7 and 19 and 20. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u336	Thank you very much. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. In the first amendment to Article. 1 in point 3 of the Senate proposes to add a new letter before point 3. a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 232 - for, 222 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the second amendment to the article. 1 The Senate proposes to amend point 4 of Article. 14hc lips. 1. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 3 for, against - 437, 11 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the third amendment to the article. 1 The Senate proposes amendments to point 5. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. No one was in favor of - 447, 1 holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 4th amendment to the article. 1 The Senate proposes to delete point 11. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Fourth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 229 - for, 208 - against, abstained 11. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 5th amendment to the article. 1 The Senate proposes to amend point 17 of Article. 15zzzg in the mouth. 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 231 for, 217 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 6th amendment to the article. 1 The Senate proposes in point 22 to add a different wording to point 22. a and b. This amendment is combined with the 7th amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 6 and 7, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 243 - for, against - 206, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 8th amendment to the article. 1 The Senate proposes, in point 25, to give a different wording to the Article. 15zzzl. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. No one was in favor of -441, 11 holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 9th amendment to the article. 1 The Senate proposes to add points 29a and 29b. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 9th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 1 for, against - 450, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 10th amendment to the article. 1 The Senate proposes to amend point 32 (a). b. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 10th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 1 for, against -451, 3 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 11th amendment to the article. 2 The Senate proposes to amend Article. 41a in the mouth. 5. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 11th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. Nobody was for, 443 against, 8 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 12th amendment to the article. 3 The Senate proposes to amend Article. Article 9a (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. Point 1 (1). The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 12th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] 453 Members voted. The absolute majority is 227. For - 1, against - 451, holding off on 1. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 13th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 3. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 13th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. The absolute majority is 226. No one voted against - 449, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 14th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 3. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 14th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. The absolute majority is 225. No one was in favor of - 448, 1 holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]] In the 15th Amendment, the Senate proposes to add an article. 8a. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 15th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 1 for, against -444, 10 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 16th Amendment, the Senate proposes to add an article. 10a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 16th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 231 - for, 222 - against, 2 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 17th amendment to the article. 11 The Senate proposes among others. add point 1a. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 17th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 4 for, 446 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 18th amendment to the article. 12 The Senate proposes to make a different wording of point 1. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 18th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. No one was in favor of - 436, 9 holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 19th amendment to the article. 12 The Senate proposes to add point 2a. In the 20th amendment, the Senate proposes to add an article. 12a. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 19 and 20 would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. No one was against - 445, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 21st Amendment, the Senate proposes to add an article. 32a. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 21st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. No one was against - 440, 10 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 22nd amendment to the article. 40 The Senate proposes among others. add point 1a. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 22nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. No one was in favor of - 439, 10 holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 23rd amendment to the article. 40 The Senate proposes to add point 2a. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 23rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. There was no one for it, 451 against it, holding off on one. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on Strategic Reserves (prints Nos 878 and 885). I ask Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u337	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to present to the High House the position of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on Strategic Reserves (Print No 878). The Senate in its resolution asks the Sejm to reject this law. The Sejm Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets, taking into account the increased role of the Agency for Material Reserves during the period of the pandemic of Coronavirus and the needs of the future resulting from the need to increase the effectiveness of the fight against the pandemic, asks the High Sejm to reject the Senate resolution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u338	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate resolution rejecting the law by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the resolution of the Senate rejecting the bill, it shall be deemed to have been adopted. We will vote on the motion to reject the Senate resolution. In its resolution, the Senate proposes to reject the Strategic Reserves Act. The Commission requests that this resolution be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Senate's resolution rejecting the Strategic Reserve Act will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 238 - for, 213 - against, 4 abstained. The Sejm rejected the Senate's resolution by an absolute majority. At this end we concluded the Senate resolution on the Strategic Reserves Act. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Prison Service Act, the Law on the Prevention and Control of Infections and Diseases in Human Beings and the Act on Special Solutions related to the Prevention, Prevention and Control of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and crisis situations caused by them (prints No 880 and 888). I ask Mr Mark Ast to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u339	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The Committee on Justice and Human Rights discussed the Senate's resolution in prints 880 and 888 at its meeting on 20 January this year. and recommends the adoption of all four amendments tabled by the Senate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u340	Thank you, sir. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. 1 The Senate proposes a different wording of point 1. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 3 - for, against - 446, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the second amendment to the article. 2 The Senate proposes among others. Amendments to point 1. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. No one was against - 450, 1 held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the third amendment to the article. 3 The Senate proposes to amend Article. 14ea in the mouth. 1. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. No one was against - 440, 11 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 4th amendment to the article. 3 The Senate proposes amendments to Article. 14ea in the mouth. 1. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Fourth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. Nobody was for, 440 against, 10 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on Prison Service, the Law on the prevention and control of infectious diseases and infections in humans, and the Act on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: the Extraordinary Commission's report on amendments to the codifications of the Senate's resolution on the Law amending the Law - Code of Administrative Procedure and some other laws (prints Nos 881 and 895). I ask Mrs Barbara Bartus to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u341	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the report of the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the Senate's resolution on the Law amending the Law - Code of Administrative Procedure and some other laws. The Senate has introduced three amendments to this law. The Commission met at its meeting on 20 January. and recommends that these amendments be accepted. At the same time, it calls for amendments 2 and 3 to be voted together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u342	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the 1st Amendment, the Senate proposes a change to the title of the Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 1 for, against -451, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In Amendment 2, the Senate proposes to delete Article. 4.9. Amendment 3 is combined with this amendment. The Senate. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that these amendments be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 2 and 3 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 232-- for, 220-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Act - Code of Administrative Procedure and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Appointment of the Ombudsman (prints No 861, 862, 863, 864 and 886). High Izbo! According to Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 1 Constitution and Article. 3 (1) (a) 1 of the Act on the Ombudsman, the Sejm shall appoint an ombudsman with the consent of the Senate. The groups of Members submitted the following nominations for the post of Ombudsman: Mr Piotr Wawrzyk, Mrs Zuzanna Rudzińska-Bluszcz and Mr Robert Starzdowski. On behalf of the Group of Members of the Parliamentary Club, Mr Piotr Wawrzyk will present the candidacy of Mr Joanna Borowiak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u343	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present the recommendation of Prof. Piotr Wawrzyk - candidate for the office of the Ombudsman submitted by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Mr. Piotr Wawrzyk was born in 1967. He is a graduate of international and law studies at the University of Warsaw. He has a PhD degree in social sciences. He is an experienced academic assistant at the Institute of European Studies at the University of Warsaw. He collaborated with the European Legislative Department and participated in the work on adapting Polish law to European Union law. In scientific and professional work, it has been dealing with the internal security of the European Union for years, the creation of instruments for cooperation between countries in the fight against crime, and the observance of the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the Member States, as reflected in several dozen copyright publications. Professor Piotr Wawrzyk has a special place in the interests and social and professional activities of the victims of crime in matters related to the protection of civil rights and the protection of the rights of victims of crime. Mr Piotr Wawrzyk understands the Ombudsman's office as a service he intends to carry out in the spirit of agreement, compromise and solidarity through dialogue with organisations and citizens, including by increasing citizens' access to the Ombudsman. It guarantees the performance of the statutory tasks before the Ombudsman, as indicated by his previous involvement in the area of human rights, respect for them and compliance with them. Since 2018, he has been Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, where he is responsible for legal, legal and legal areas, the United Nations and consular and parliamentary areas. He oversees, among others. matters concerning Poland's compliance with the European Convention on Human Rights. Responsible for cooperation with the bodies of the Council of Europe and the United Nations on human rights. He presided over the Polish delegation at the Copenhagen Council of Europe conference. the Interlaken process to ensure the effective functioning of the European Court of Human Rights. Thanks to the successful procedures of Minister Piotr Wawrzyk and the United Nations Department of Human Rights, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs managed to introduce Poland to the Human Rights Council for the third time in 2019. The work of the team led by Prof. Piotr Wawrzyk resulted in the adoption on the initiative of Poland of another resolution on the role of good governance in the promotion and protection of human rights. Prof. Piotr Wawrzyk annually hosted a cyclical conference devoted to human rights, so-called. Warsaw seminar gathering theorists and practitioners in the field of widely understood human rights. An important aspect of the Minister's work is issues relating to consular action related to the assistance of Poles whose rights are violated in different countries. Openness and sensitivity to another person, leaning over human problems are important features of the candidate. Individual issues of Polish citizens are often difficult and complicated, but extremely important to them. The fact that Mr Piotr Wawrzyk, as a candidate for the Ombudsman's office, received the support of the NSZZ National Commission's Bureau of Solidarity, deserves a special distinction. The Bureau's position states that it is important for the elected Ombudsman to know and understand problems relating to labour matters, the dignity of workers and equal treatment, to be open to cooperation and determination to defend and combat fundamental rights. Mr Piotr Wawrzyk is not just an official performing his duties and specific duties. He is a candidate distinguished by legal knowledge, professional experience and high authority, due to his moral qualities and social sensitivity meeting the requirements of the article. 2 of the Act on the Ombudsman. Both education, extensive professional experience and a high assessment of competences carried out by the social side indicate that Prof. Piotr Wawrzyk is a good candidate for the office of ombudsman. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u344	Thank you, Member. On behalf of the Group of Members from the parliamentary club of the Left (Together, Alliance of the Democratic Left, Spring of Robert Biedron), Mrs Zuzanna Rudzińska-Iluszcz will present Mrs Krzysztof Śmishek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u345	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We are having another debate in this House today about the candidates for the Ombudsman. In one senese we are experiencing groundhog day - the same arguments and the same calls for the election of the Ombudsman after many months, the political, constitutional body that watches over human rights and freedoms. We have one difference: we have several candidates. We have a candidate for social counsel Susanna Rudzińska-Ivy, [[Applause]] which, on behalf of Members and Members of the Left, but above all more than a thousand social organisations, I warmly welcome today to the Seym Gallery. Good evening, Counselor. [[Applause]] We also have a purely party candidate, a member of the ruling party, a vice-minister of foreign affairs, a political nominator who is supposed to recapture the last independent institution in our country. We also have a candidate who, although with scientific achievements, has received record-breaking small support during the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. Take care of your candidate. I don't want to quote Mrs. Zuzanna Rudzińska-Ilusz's life story for the third time. We have already held three Parliamentary Committee meetings and two parliamentary debates. The candidate herself held dozens of meetings with organizations during which she presented herself and her vision of office. I will only mention her excellent legal preparation, a great knowledge of the Ombudsman's office's work, social sensitivity and relentlessness. And that's the key word that no one else describes as a patron: Relentlessness. Relentless in the fight for human rights, relentless and faithful to the principles she swore as a lawyer, relentless in defending constitutionally guaranteed rights. It also did not give way when the unfavorable candidates began to question her competence or the fact that she was supported by thousands of organizations. The candidate thus survived her first brutal collision with politics. It did not discourage her, nor did it discourage her, on the contrary. He does not calculate politically, he says what he thinks about the destruction of justice in our country, about women's rights, about minority rights, about police abuses against citizens, about the education system forgotten about the remote learning of hundreds of children, about the rights of seniors and about your contempt for them. If I couldn't give her the time to speak from this speaker, I'd like to quote a few statements from your patron in one of the last interviews. The question is why he's running. Here I quote: First of all, out of great tenderness to the office of the spokesperson, which I know as my own pocket. I'm crazy attached to him. For people working there, for people we help. And also because the office has done huge and wonderful things over the past 30 years. This is not visible, it is not clicking, it does not arouse great emotions, but the achievements of the Ombudsman's Office are several hundred thousand people whom we have helped - and Mrs Zuzanna Rudzińska-Ilusz participated in these tens and hundreds of interventions. Human rights and civil liberties do not have political colours. Discrimination, exclusion, hatred, contempt touches everyone. Therefore, the Ombudsman cannot be a person who will calculate or have a sentiment for one or another political group. Just as Tamida's spokesman must be blind to political colors, he must have a sharp eye whenever harm occurs when the constitution is broken. Such a spokesman will be Zuzanna Rudzińska-Iluszcz. Ladies and gentlemen! The candidate did something amazing. She's generated incredible social energy. Not around you, but around the office's vision, around the dramatic cry for help from those you have treated in a disdainful way that you have forgotten. Let's not waste this social capital. Let us not waste the trust that has been built around this important social issue. Let the spokesman be the person who will truly be the spokesperson of everyone's rights. This office cannot become a victim of politics, political spoils. On behalf of hundreds of NGOs and the Left Club, I assure you that it meets all the strict criteria imposed by the legislator to the candidate for the Ombudsman. Legal knowledge, social sensitivity and moral qualifications - this is everything that Mrs Zuzanna Rudzińska-Iluszcz represents. Therefore, the Left Club will recommend and recommend this candidacy as an ombudsman. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u346	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Members from the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - PSL, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives and the Group of Members from the Polish Confederation's Circle, Mr Robert Starowski will present the candidacy of Mr Krzysztof Paszyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u347	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Coalition of Poland has the pleasure to recommend and present to the High House the candidacy of Prof. Robert Starowski as ombudsman. Professor Robert Gwiazdowski is a doctor-habilitated legal science, lawyer, tax advisor, graduate of the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Warsaw. Between 1985 and 2006 he was a research worker - an assistant and then an assistant - at the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Warsaw. In 1998 he was included on the list of tax advisors. In 2004, he received a PhD from the Faculty of Law and Administration at the University of Warsaw, defending his doctoral dissertation at Milton Friedman and Russell Kirk, and the styles of conservative thinking in American political philosophy. In 2007, he obtained a habilitation at the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Warsaw, defending the habilitation hearing of the progressive and proportional tax. Doctrinal indications. Practical consequences. In 2009, he was listed as a lawyer. Since 2009, he has been a professor at the University of Łazarski in Warsaw - the same university, which recommended the person of Professor Gwiazdowski as a candidate for the Ombudsman. It deals scientifically with the history of political and legal thought, economic analysis of law and tax law. Co-author of the concept of civic pension as a change in the pension system and the financing of pension benefits from indirect taxes and not from labour taxation. He published and published popular articles, popular science and columnists in the Rzeczpospolita Rzeczpospolita, the Legal Newspaper, the Wyborcza Newspaper, the Puls Biznesu, the Parket, the Newsweek or the Forbes. In public activity associated with the Adam Smith Centre for years - the first independent institute in Poland. In 2004 and 2014, he served as President. One of the founders of the Association of Entrepreneurs and Employers. One of the founders of the National Institute of Senior Economy. Deputy President of the Warsaw Enterprise Institute. Advisor to many Polish and foreign companies. High Izbo! The candidacy of Prof. Robert Starowski as an ombudsman may be overcome by a constitutional crisis which is not guaranteed by both opponents recommended in this House today. For everyone, it is a greater good, I hope it should be a greater good than staying in this crisis. Professor Robert Starzdowski, as the Ombudsman of civil rights, will equal the chances of citizens in a dispute with strong institutions, because he has often shown courage, wisdom and determination. Everything points out that the times of the pandemic and the economic crisis following this pandemic will require the Ombudsman in Poland to defend the rights of entrepreneurs who are being harassed today, affected by the crisis and cannot wait for help in a substantive, professional way based on his experience. We hope that the High House will also take into account that this is a candidacy which has been selected through consultation with the law and administration departments of national universities. It was the Coalition of Poland that, in the context of this paralysis and wedge, which we are dealing with in the election of the Ombudsman, asked the departments of law to take these consultations, and it was the University of Łazarski, as I pointed out earlier, that recommended a person of Prof. Starowski - a person with no political and substantive advantages. These are the characteristics that distinguish the person of Professor Starowski from the other competitors in applying for this position. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u348	Thank you, sir. On behalf of the Group of Members of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Ms Zuzanna Rudzińska-Iluszcz will present Mr Robert Kropiwnicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u349	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is my honor to introduce once again the excellent candidate of Mrs Zuzanna Rudzińska-Ilusz. Just once. I think everything we've said so far is true. And that confirms that you didn't have an idea, you still don't have an idea, and you still don't want an independent ombudsman. And that's sad. But you've already chosen two spokespersons. You've chosen a child's attorney. Do you know who it is? Do you even remember the name of who you chose? Two, three people remember. Mr President, please pay close attention to the recommendations of your candidate. Sure, yes, Your Marshal, I'll justify it. This isn't a discussion. You're introducing a candidate. Mr. Mikołaj Pawlak has so far become famous for talking about a sex-change tablet. He didn't know if the children's helpline was working. What are you saying? It's all bullshit. You've also chosen a spokesperson... Get to the point. ...small and medium-sized enterprises. Today, when companies fall... Is that a recommendation? ...where's that spokesperson's voice? Today, a spokesperson for small, medium-sized enterprises should speak when they really have problems. Unfortunately, this is the situation that you have chosen people who are completely unfit for these positions. Because only from the Platform... You'd like to have the same ombudsman who works on your behalf. It's symbolic. I don't want to judge your candidacy... I'd vote for Nowak. ...but the symbolic thing is that your candidate is sitting in this room, he's probably gonna vote for himself, and our candidate is with the people. And it's supported by thousands of people. [[Applause]] That's the difference. The fundamental difference is that we have a candidate... A candidate. ...who will stand firm on civil rights, and you have a deputy minister in your government, an MP you will always have on your side, on whom you will influence. You're gonna hire his family, and you're gonna have an impact on him. For a ombudsman. Mr President, listen to me. Mr President, you are to present the candidate in your speech. Time, time. Don't take away anyone's right to run. But of course. I want you to focus on what you came into the podium for. Mrs. Marshal! I don't take anyone's right to run, but we have a choice. He's a candidate. If there's a choice, it's worth knowing what situation we're in. Marshal, why are you afraid for your candidate? Why don't you choose an independent candidate? Because you're afraid of difficult questions. Pay attention to what the bill says. What candidate should we choose? But it's not a performance, it's a performance of a candidate. We should choose a candidate who has high authority because of his moral qualities and social sensitivity. What did you say about the social sensitivity of your candidate? Nothing. We have every right to have an opinion. I'll tell you how we feel about the social sensitivity of our candidate, because our candidate was running cases that are really important to people. She was prosecuting for wrongful arrest. She was dealing with a drug refund for a child with an incurable disease that she won before the Supreme Administrative Court. These are serious matters. She was investigating employee rights. The case of a woman from Lublin who sought to establish her salary by establishing a contract of employment at the time when she had a number of contract orders. These are important things. This is social sensitivity, because these are specific things that concern people. That's what the Ombudsman should be doing, not just hanging out with politicians. How many organizations... That's the fundamental difference. It's not really about us having a politician's spokesperson who's defending government affairs. The point is to have an ombudsman in the Republic of Poland. I'm offering you: Let's make a deal on this, because we need to make an agreement between the Seym and the Senate. You try again, but you don't agree with anyone. This case will come back to us for the fourth and fifth time if we don't sit at the table. Do we really have to be so different in every case? Why don't we think about it... We We don't want this lady. ...that the Ombudsman is for the people and two Chambers - the Sejm and the Senate - must conclude an agreement on this matter. And you don't want to agree with anyone. You just want to do it for yourself and for yourself because that's your nature. I'm afraid so. I'm sorry. I am sorry that you are selfish and selfish, that you are not looking at the good of Poland, you are only looking at your good. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]] Weak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u350	Oh, sir, but you yelled at me here. Why? I ask Mr Krzysztof July to present the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u351	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I present to the High Sejm the opinion of the committee on the proposals for the appointment of the Ombudsman. On 5 January 2021, the Marshal of the Sejm addressed these proposals to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for an opinion. At its meeting on 19 January 2021, following the discussion, the Commission decided to give a positive opinion on Mr Piotr Wawrzyk's candidacy, [[Applause]] Mrs Zuzanna Rudzińska-Iluszcz and Mr Robert Starowski's nominations have been negative. I want you, Professor. Peter Wawrzyk, Member of the Świętokrzyskie Land, fold... Oh, Jesus! ...congratulations on getting a positive opinion. I wish the Holy Cross to blow a strong wind, which will cause good changes in the case of the Ombudsman's office. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u352	Thank you, sir. As representatives of the clubs came forward to speak, I propose that the Sejm listen to three-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in the discussion. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Szczerba, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u353	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Social Candidate Ms. Counselor Zuzanna Rudzińska-Ivy! Ladies and gentlemen, we are not the ones presenting this candidacy, it is the society represented by 1223 organisations that came and said: we want an ombudsman, we do not want a ombudsman. Counselor Zuzanna Rudzińska-Iluszcz is an experience, it's a knowledge of civil rights, it's an openness to a variety of problems. Your patron is a professional and mature citizen, who has created an impressive program, has proposed a model for the functioning of the Ombudsman, a competent model, combining, independent and completely impartial. I would like to express my highest respect for your courage, your stubbornness, your consistency and your determination. I would also like to express my highest respect for all social organisations that have been with you for six months and support the model of an impartial and independent Ombudsman. High Izbo! Today we are choosing an ombudsman for all citizens, independent of the authorities and without political ambition, for whom every civil right is important. This is very important because total power has already taken over almost all institutions. Mrs Zuzanna Rudzińska-Iluszcz is behind the society, Mr Wawrzyk is behind the president, who is not even in the courtroom. Have the courage to listen to the real voice of the citizens, because also to you, those in power today, in the future, when you lose that power, it will pay off. We defend the voice of society, not partying. Five years ago, we were able to choose a man who wasn't our candidate, he wasn't reported by us, but he turned out to be great. It has just been notified by NGOs. Everything you touch becomes a pato becomes a pato-institutional. We've got a patotribunal, we've got a patojudge, which is the Disciplinary Chamber, which... About. ...doesn't recognize anyone in Europe, we have a Pato-KRS that has become the space of battle for power and money. Get to the point. How much money does a PiS reparation member know? We also have a patoop. Mr Lorenzo! How can a PiS candidate and a PiS Member turn into an impartial ombudsman within one day? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. It's impossible. Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! Let's pick an ombudsman. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u354	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Mark Ast on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome. If the High Court pleads...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u355	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, of course, will support your candidacy... Nose mask. ...Professor Piotr Wawrzyk for the Ombudsman's office. The professor was the only candidate to present a coherent, substantive programme of the Ombudsman's office... Mask. ...based on three pillars. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Nose mask. You admitted it yourself in the discussion. He said that he would base his program on the experience of his former spokespersons. ...on different committees. He proposed the appointment of an advisory body, composed of which he would appoint his former spokespersons. Secondly, it will base the Ombudsman's office on experience, the expertise of its staff and, thirdly, on dialogue with social organisations. He's a really good candidate for this job. On the other hand, as regards the candidacy of Ms Zuzanna Rudzińska-Ivy, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that the curtain fell at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. Your patron has made a de facto political declaration on what rights she will defend at a time when... Ooh... Citizen. Citizen. We'll remind you of your appearance before the tribunal. ...million Poles fear for their life, health, jobs, for their companies. Counsel said that during these months, the most important challenges for the Ombudsman were issues related to protests, women's strike, violations of LGBT rights. That's not true. These are the cases that your spokesperson will take care of. Lie! It would be worth asking your spokesperson today... Don't lie to me. You don't lie about the elderly. The Ombudsman also expressed in public space the view that there is no basis for bringing people who unduly interfere with religious rituals out of the temples. Scandal! So that means that your spokesperson condones the crime of paintings of religious feelings, restricting religious freedom. Does this mean that from leftist organizations, from those who interfere with rituals, you will need to have permission e.g. to attend the Holy Mass? Stop hey. Stop hating in the middle of a discussion, man. We can't... Stop hating. But that's the truth. Truth in the eyes of the circle. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm afraid it's also the case that your spokesperson... The truth isn't here, the truth is out. ...what you show as a plus, questions the constitutional activities of the state's authorities - the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court's Disciplinary Chamber. A person like that can't be a spokesperson. As for Professor Robert Starowski's candidacy, ladies and gentlemen, how can the spokesman be the person who... It's mediocre. ...doesn't think the Ombudsman's office is necessary? Does the Polish People's Party feel the same way? Thank you. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u356	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Left Club, Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u357	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I regret that because you are the chairman of my committee, the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, but I think we have been to various committee meetings. It wasn't what I heard at the committee meetings where we had the opportunity to listen to the candidate Zuzanna Rudzińska-Ilusz. Because she is here with us today, but she is without a voice, and not all of you could hear what she had to say to us during the committee's work, I will allow myself symbolically to give her this voice by quoting a few of her speeches that she had voiced in the committee: The last 6 months are the epic of the election of the Ombudsman of the 7th term, a time of extraordinary challenges for citizens, a story of breaking a month after a month of constitutional guarantees. August. On 10 August, the deadline for submitting candidates for the Ombudsman expired. So he's just fighting for himself. 3 days earlier, on 7 August, a big protest broke out in Warsaw during the arrest of LGBT Margot activist by the police. August was a month of challenges for art. 30 Constitution - Inalienable, Natural Dignity, Art. 32 prohibiting discrimination for any reason and Article. 40 forbidding anyone from being treated inhuman or degrading. September. On 8 September, Adam Bodnar's former Ombudsman passed his term of office. On 9 September Zuzanna Rudzińska-Iluszcz remained the only candidate for the office of spokesperson. On that day, a request from the PiS Group to examine the constitutionality of the extension of the Ombudsman's term of office was received by the Constitutional Tribunal. September was also the month of the children's return to school. It was a month of challenges for the article. 70 - right to study, in particular the obligation of public authorities to ensure universal and equal access to education for citizens. October. On 8 October, the first vote on the appointment of an ombudsman was to take place. The point has been removed from the schedule. The vote was finally held on 22 October, that is, on the date on which the Constitutional Tribunal issued its judgment on the tightening of the anti-abortion law, one of the most restrictive rules in Europe so far. In October, the most important was the article. 30 - natural inalienability of dignity, Art. 40 - prohibition of inhuman or degrading treatment, Article. 47 - the right to privacy of family life, art. 60 - the right to health care. November. On 20 November, a second vote was held on the appointment of an Ombudsman. It was also the biggest month in decades, peaceful protests and the most brutal police intervention, it was the unjustified use of handcuffs, batting sticks, insults, gas use against working messengers and journalists, irregularities in arrests. November was the second month of the epidemic. Do the messengers work on the street? In November, the most important was the article. 50 - right to peaceful assembly, Art. 40 - prohibition of inhuman or degrading treatment, as well as Article. 60 - the right to health care. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you, Member. Because... Thank you very much, Member. I just want to end by saying this... Time's up, time's up. Madame, you must leave now, really. Zuzanna Rudzińska-Ilusz stands here today, and I repeat on her behalf the sentence that came to the committee meeting... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Time's up. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk. Madam, do you hear what I'm saying to you? Madam, you do not react at all to... One sentence. No, my fellow Member. Step out of the podium, please. What a granda.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u358	You're welcome... Your Marshal... Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland. Member, I urge you. Mrs... Mr Krzysztof Paszyk. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u359	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Your marshal, but why are you yelling? You're all yelling out of this podium, so I'm yelling, too. Guess that's okay with you guys. I can't hear you talking quietly from the podium, I can hear you screaming. There's still screaming. I'm asking you to supplement your time. There you go. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland, has the floor. Marshal, you cannot begin by referring to the words of President Asta. ...through the whole speech or not? Did you hear what your friends... Easy, Member, easy. I believe that the Member should not speak on behalf of the Law and Justice as regards the need for an ombudsman to function, because you have paralyzed the Ombudsman's choice. You shouldn't talk about it at all. And who paralyzes in the Senate? Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is difficult not to get this impression by listening today to the statements of the representatives of the right side of the room, the left side of the Parliament hall, that you are defending your candidates. On the one hand, you defend the right-wing candidate, on the other hand, the left-left candidate's defender, but you have already completely forgotten that today the most important thing is to defend the Ombudsman's office. Because today is the biggest problem. For several months now, we have been in a crisis that - hard not to get this impression - is at the hands of the Law and Justice. And I'm surprised the left side of the room willingly wants to play this scenario of Law and Justice. The candidate of Professor Starowski, behind whom there is work and experience, is today a chance to save the office of the Ombudsman from being extinguished. I don't know if you know about this one fact from Professor Starowski's life story. At his law department in Warsaw before 1989 he defended against dismissal, against the expulsion of students from the university. Since his studies, he has been close to opening up to other people's problems, discrimination against others. Today Poland, Mr President, is precisely the country that the Ombudsman needs. You're scamming entrepreneurs, you're scamming Poles, and today you want to punish them with tickets without the right to refuse. Citizens feel threatened every step of the way. And it is today that we need a spokesperson who will be politically resistant, but determined to defend the rights of citizens and citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u360	Thank you. Madam President, I merely remind you that you, as a non-member, have less time - 1.5 minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u361	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'll be very brief. I don't think you like the spokespersons of our rights. You ridiculed the Ombudsman's office today, you started to liquidate the Ombudsman's office today, and now we have plowing the Ombudsman's institution, like not trying to place the current Ombudsman before the Constitutional Tribunal, it's a party nomination of a colleague. And here I really do express my great admiration for Mrs Borowiak for her brave search for the Minister's relationship with human rights. Really, it was a big stunt. Poland 2050 Szymona Hołowni supports Zuzanna Rudzińska-Iluszcz and that will not change. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u362	Thank you. The discussion is closed. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights gave a positive opinion on Mr Piotr Wawrzyk's candidacy as ombudsman and Ms Zuzanna Rudzińska-Bluszcz and Mr Robert Starzdowski's position as ombudsman. I remind you that the Sejm, according to the article. 29 in conjunction with Article. 31 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, appoint the Ombudsman by an absolute majority. Three applications were submitted for the post of Ombudsman. I therefore propose that we vote on the nominations in alphabetical order, in accordance with the principle that this candidate will be elected, who will be the first to receive an absolute majority of the votes. Once an absolute majority has been obtained, the candidate will not vote on the other candidates. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We are voting on Mr. Robert Starowski's candidacy. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Mr Robert Starowski as ombudsman would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. For - 38, 383 - against, 27 stopped. The Sejm did not appoint Mr Robert Starowski to be an ombudsman. We are voting on Mrs Zuzanna Rudzińska-Iluszcz's candidacy. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Mrs Zuzanna Rudzińska-Ilusz as ombudsman would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 204 - for, 247 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm did not appoint Ms Zuzanna Rudzińska-Ilusz to be an ombudsman. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] We are voting on Mr. Piotr Wawrzyk's candidacy. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Mr Piotr Wawrzyk as ombudsman would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? You should have called Rydzyk right away. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Your marshal, Rydzyk, you should have reported it. It would have been cheaper for the budget. Mr... [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, stop talking to each other. What kind of discussion is this? (Groans in the hall) Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to each of the parties, really, we have one last vote left, so please calm down. You're welcome. But that your Marshal of the President has admonished... Respect. I'm well-mannered, at least I think. Humble. 453 Members voted. 233 - for, against - 219, 1 abstained. The Sejm has appointed Mr Piotr Wawrzyk as ombudsman. Some Members get up, give them a round of applause. I'm calling a five-minute break. How did he call it? He didn't. That's where we ended the vote. All right, let's take a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 min. 38 hrs. 20 min 49]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the situation of the shipbuilding industry in Poland, with particular attention to the implementation of the programme "Batory" and the current situation of state-owned shipbuilding companies. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Mr. Mark Grybarczyk to present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u363	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Seym! I would like to provide information on the shipbuilding industry, taking into account the "Batory" programme in the current situation that we have to deal with. This is the first year in 25 years where we have so much decline in shipbuilding. This is due to a simple reason. The pandemic caused a huge breakdown in the shipbuilding market. Last year, 356 units were ordered; that's 40%. less than in the previous year, i.e. 2019. That's what caused the drop of 40%. revenue from shipbuilding production. But we have to add that half of the units ordered last year are units built in China. On the other hand, ships built in European shipyards are mainly specialized units, i.e. cruisers, i.e. cruise ships, and specialist ships built for offshore purposes. What was supposed to be part of the exit of the European shipbuilding industry from the crisis turned out to be an Achilles heel, because the decline in the first part of the year affected up to 70% revenues for European shipyards, as no cruiser has been ordered and existing projects have been limited and are still limited. You were building some cruisers, weren't you? In European shipyards, we already see a very large dullness today. As far as German shipyards are concerned, at least Meyer Werft reduced its production by 40%. Others are in financial difficulties. Haveyardship Technology from Norway has already decided that it is going to produce... But are you talking about Polish industry or German? Mr. Chairman, Mr. Marshal, you're welcome. Mr. Marshal. It's a deliberate act. [[Game in the O.R.]] Minister, wait a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, please allow the Minister to speak calmly. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Marek Grybarczyk: Thus, Norwegian shipyards are re-qualified for renovation production. It is similar in other countries, in Fincantieri in Italy or in Spanish shipyards. As a result, our situation... Polish shipyards were in a similar situation with regard to orders. These declines were very visible, both in private shipyards and in state shipyards. The scope of state shipyards includes: Maritime Shiprepair Yard Gryfia, Szczeciński Park Industrial, Szczecińska Shipyard, PGZ Shipyard War and Industrial Group Baltic. After all, all these shipyards have been in bad shape for a long time; this has been going on since 2008, when the decision of the Civic Platform and PSL to liquidate the manufacturing industry in Szczecin and Gdynia started the process of decommissioning this industry. In view of the above, the government of Prime Minister Morawiecki has decided, within the framework of the Responsible Development Strategy, to set up the Batory programme, which is based on four pillars, i.e.: construction of polish ship owners, construction or project of Green Shipyard, i.e. recycling yard, sector program of INNOship and integrated offshore platform. These elements were designed and designed to stimulate the shipbuilding industry in Poland and, above all, to create a counterweight for the constantly declining shipbuilding market. This, of course, is extremely important in the current situation when we have bad economic forecasts, so our strategy needs to be rebuilt in the coming months. And this is currently being done (The Bell) in the Ministry of Infrastructure: creating a new strategy related to the development of the reconstruction programme and the preservation of Polish shipyards. Finally, I would like to say that the Batory programme, the construction of the pupaxes, has not been stopped in any way. It was halted during the pandemic due to a lack of capacity to carry out this task. That's quite an interview you had when you knew there'd be a pandemic four years ago. On the other hand, Polish ferries were created. It is a company that connects two shipowners, PZM and PŻB. Discussions are ongoing with Inea, which is in one of the programmes for the implementation of this project. A new agreement on the construction of these ferries has now been established. The construction of the Green Shipyard, where a company was also established to activate this project, will be carried out. Of course, this is mainly related to the area of the Gryfia shipyard, where this shipyard is to be located. The INNOship programme is several contracts signed, of course, under the scheme: an innovative shipbuilding industry. An integrated offshor platform - an agreement has also been concluded in this area. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u364	Thank you very much to the Minister for presenting the information. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Rule of Law and Justice will be spoken by Mr Szałabawek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u365	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the club information on the situation of the shipbuilding industry, the Batory programme, its implementation and the situation of state-owned enterprises in this zone. However, first of all, I would like to stress that the current government has taken decisive action to rebuild the Polish shipbuilding industry that has been degraded over the years by creating a friendly legal environment for shipbuilding companies. We had the right laws. It is natural that potential shipbuilding orders should first be carried out through cooperation within the Treasury companies while respecting the principle of competitiveness and economic account. Such measures constitute an effective mechanism for the recovery of the national economy, making significant use of the potential of domestic demand. It is worth noting that employment has increased by almost 8 000 since 2015 in the shipbuilding industry. Places. These are the real effects of rebuilding the shipbuilding industry after many years of its collapse. The previous actions were necessary after the wrong decisions taken by the then parliamentary majority of PO-PSL, which resulted in the elimination of a large part of Polish production potential. As an example, it is worth pointing out the bill of compensation adopted by the PO-PSL coalition, which led to the loss of the market and the weakening of the brand of the Polish shipbuilding industry vis-à-vis shipowners, which so far makes it difficult to rebuild its international position. The sale of the yard's assets sealed the sustainability of the political line at that time accepted and co-created by the PO-PSL coalition. The liquidation of Polish production yards caused problems and in many cases the collapse of numerous cooperative companies. This decision resulted, among others, in the decision. loss of employment for about 9 thousand persons directly involved in the production of ships so far. The representatives of these industries, but also professionals in this area, presume that one decommissioned place of work in the yard meant the elimination of seven jobs in the related industry. In total, around 63 thousand were lost as a result of this decision. jobs. The implementation of the government's plans for the shipbuilding industry at that time resulted in the creation of a low cost, labour-intensive export product, which is not equipped or partly equipped with hulls. That's what we're known for right now. These actions were an important element in increasing the competitiveness of foreign shipbuilding companies on the global market, where the presence of Polish production yards became a past. The current economic situation, the financial situation of IAS Gryfia SA is difficult. Everyone agrees that the cessation of restructuring activities, in particular in the context of the deteriorating market trends related inter alia. with the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic, and the collapse of the existing supply chains undoubtedly leads to further deterioration of this difficult economic situation of the yard and as a result of further deterioration of its economic performance. As a result of the analyses carried out on the possible implementation of restructuring initiatives and financial capacity, it was decided to expand the yard's infrastructure with a new floating dock, so-called. Eight. The scope of the project includes the construction of the new, largest in the West Pomeranian region of the floating dock, while modernising the hydrotechnical infrastructure enabling such docks to be placed and normal operation started. According to the company's board of directors, the new dock, this eight, will generate an average of about 150% annually. higher revenues than all docks currently located in the shipyard in Świnoujście. Importantly, dock 8 will generate much higher revenues, although the average annual number of units renovated on it will be less by 24 or by 47%. Doc No.4 will generate 10.4 million in value or 169 percent higher margin than the docks 2, 6 and 7 combined. I would like to stress that the decision to dispose of the Świnoujście branch's real estate was preceded by reliable analyses and is made on the basis of the multiannual conclusions reached by the Świnoujście branch's economic performance. The indicators clearly show that the branch (the Bell) is permanently inefficient and while maintaining the status quo is deprived of prospects for further development. I'm cutting it. The Government of the United Right is working to activate the ship industry in the country. The development of the shipbuilding industry is one of the priorities of the Ministry's tasks. You could say a lot more, but you're running out of time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u366	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by Mr Arkadiusz Carrot. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u367	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! We asked for this debate more than a month ago because the shipbuilding industry is not doing well. It is precisely the situation in the shipbuilding industry that is the best proof of your incompetence, your amateurism and your political deception. [[Applause]] Let's go back to 2017. At the yard in Szczecin there is Mateusz Morawiecki, responsible for the economic policy of the government, head of MON Antoni Macierewicz and Minister of Maritime Affairs Mr Marek Gróbarczyk. All aces. Then one state fund pays the other fund PLN 100 million to buy a shipyard. We hear these words from you: This creates the largest shipbuilding group in the Baltic Sea and one of the largest in Europe. Today is the day of writing the history of the shipbuilding industry in Szczecin again. That's what they said. It is a great chance that the reconstruction of the yard will focus not only on the construction of ferries, but also on the mobilisation of the potential for building military units. Powerful plans. You weren't just supposed to build big ferries, you were supposed to build submarines. So let's start with submarines. Poland - 440 km of Baltic coastline and only three 50-year-old submarines on average, not one new submarine you promised. Of these three-year-olds, two of them will be good for scrap metal this year, and one for major renovations. What you predicted was one big fiction. Let's move on to the shuttles now. In June 2017, again in Szczecin you put a keel under the construction of the ferry. The PiS government's flagship programme begins. In 2018, the construction was to begin, in 2020 the ferry was to take off from the ramp to the water, and this year it was to carry passengers around the Baltic Sea. It is 2021 and there are no effects, no effects. This keel stands on the ramp like it stood, and there's nothing going on there at all. The Ministry of Maritime Affairs, your Ministry, has been sunk, but new appalling and scandalous information has surfaced. You spent over 12 million zlotys on all this propaganda related to the keel, although to this day there is not even a project of this unit. This rusty piece of sheet metal is a shameful symbol of your rule. The Batory program hasn't even started, and it's already at the bottom. I remember, Minister, as you said to the shipbuilders, you came to them to give them hope for the development of the shipyard, to give specific orders, to create demand for ships that they will build. So? There was supposed to be hope, but instead of hope there are redundancies, because a few weeks ago almost 200 employees of the Gryfia shipyard in Świnoujście received notice. And yet you arrogantly tell the workers of this shipyard that you are doing this to save the shipyard. There's nothing like saving the yard by destroying it. Bravo, geniuses industry! [[Applause]] When we look at the situation of the shipyard from Pomerania, it turns out that it is not better at all, because both Navy Shipyard and Nauta shipyard in Gdynia have big problems, and you have no ideas as to how to fix these problems. In 2016, you created the so-called. a shipbuilding bill to give new opportunities and opportunities to build ships. So let's see how many of these ships are being built in Poland today. Minister, it's a fresh yearbook of the maritime economy from a dozen days ago. In comparison, 24 ships were built in 2010 and 12 in 2012, i.e. half as low, in 2018 - 6 vessels, in 2019 - 5 vessels. How many cruisers in this? Interestingly, with the number of ships built in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship, where you announced the creation of the largest shipbuilding group in the Baltic, there is a line. Do you know what that means? The phenomenon doesn't occur. Ha, ha, ha! Bravo, Minister! Bravo! Doesn't anybody benefit from this bill? This is another proof of how your big plans reached the day. You just embarrassed yourself. In 2017 the state fund (Dawn) took over for nearly PLN 200 million from the private owner supervision of the plant of foundations for offshore wind farms. And instead of developing this company, you've led to its failure. After a dozen months, you, Minister, have come to Szczecin without any sense of shame and said: the bankruptcy remains. 400 people on the street. You have to be an absolute dilettant to buy a state-of-the-art factory, pump millions of zlotys into it and bring it down. The PiS government takes full responsibility for this. Then you said it was worth considering maybe in the future in this factory scrapping ships, but frankly, I think, Minister, that all your ideas should be scrapped, because they are damaging the maritime economy. And finally, the people responsible for so many failures, for such a band of failures and amateurism should fly out with a bang. from the government. In the meantime, Minister, as a reward for this keel, for these unfulfilled promises, you have reached the warm position of Deputy Minister at the Ministry of Infrastructure, which means nothing is changing. Same loser. Further, the same people are responsible for the shipbuilding industry, the same ones who, as the evidence shows, have brought this industry into play for the last five years. Thank you. Request for rejection of information. And I'm filing a motion to reject this information from the Minister. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u368	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek will now present Mr Dariusz Wieczorek in the remote position of the parliamentary club Leo. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u369	Welcome. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Well, I listened to that information on behalf of the Left Club, and I'll honestly admit that I'm terrified. You can bloom this information very simply, namely, that the program is nothing mythical yeti, everyone has been talking about it for 5 or 6 years, but no one has seen it. This was confirmed by the Minister, referring of course to the COVID, referring to the difficult situation, and it is so, but this difficult situation has been since 2020. Let me just remind you that in 2015 the Ministry of Maritime Affairs was created with great euphoria. Very well, we were all happy about it, because, to be clear, the Left also fights in the chest. In short, each of us from the right to the left is responsible for the situation of the shipbuilding industry in Poland, because also all governments made mistakes in this matter. There's no doubt about that. The problem, however, is how to fix these mistakes. You called the Ministry, and what's going on? You've put all the companies on the board with party denominations. Suddenly - and this is said by the social side - in all shipyards, in shipping companies, there are complete dilemmas. Those who are not related to the maritime economy have started to manage it, and it did not take long to wait for the results. Of course, you can curse reality, but the truth is, you had good ideas. There was a shipbuilding law, and the question is how many companies have benefited from it. It was supposed to be a Batory program, but the question was whether any ship had ever been built. My previous speaker said he wasn't, because we know he wasn't. A maritime investment fund was to be set up to help the entire maritime economy and maritime businesses during the deconstructive period. The question is, where is he? I will merely remind you that the demand in 2016, which appeared on the official website of the Ministry, was the demand of shipowners: nine ships, including three submarines, so the shipyards were to build submarines, 10 passenger ferries and 40 boats. So what? From 2015 to 2020, suddenly no order could be made? Of course you could, but it turns out you were completely unprepared for it. Just so we're clear about this famous ferry: I don't want to take it out anymore, because everyone knows it's just a disgrace. However, Minister, I would like you to be aware of one thing: what this implies. This is due to simple things, there is not even a design of this ferry, although there are at least three large companies in West Pomerania that design big ships for the whole world. You could have ordered the project of this shuttle to any of these companies, there would have been no problem, the project would have been today. The only problem is, no one does a project unless they have money to build a shuttle. And it's your big fault about what's going on with the shipbuilding industry today. Because in short, there is no, there was no, and I have the feeling that there will be no financial resources for the construction of any ship. And, of course, the question is where to build it. The industrial park today lives well with the rent of shipbuilding sites for entrepreneurs. However, there is no idea how to gather these entrepreneurs, how to create a consortium to build these ships. The ramps are standing, no one's using it. The Minister is talking about an innovation programme. I would like to inform you, Minister, that there was a plan and there was funds for building a semi-automatic ship, there was a funding of nearly 40 million from the NCBR, it was to be built in the area of the industrial park. What did you do? You'd rather rent land instead of innovation. And finally, the shipyards. Today we discussed three hours in the committee about the Gryfia shipyard. What you've led to, the liquidation of the Świnoujście plant, the firing of people, that's amazing, you'll be dreaming at night. Today, this is the worst idea ever. Of course, building a new dock is absolutely necessary and there is no doubt about it. Everyone's in favor of it. The social side, the free trade unions of the Gryfia shipyard, all support the construction of this dock, but it cannot be done at the expense of great land, entire crew and troops in Świnoujście, because it is simply a senseless operation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Left Club will, of course, be against this information. I have a big request, Minister, there is still time until the end of your term of office, so come to your senses and take serious care of the shipbuilding industry in Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u370	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives will be presented by Mr Jarosław Rzep.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u371	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! It is a pity that the Prime Minister is not with us today, I think he is ashamed and very disappointed in the Members who are in government today, because the keel seems to be dreaming at night. But I'm gonna start, ladies and gentlemen, a little different, because we have to say good things, too. Minister, I think it's a good thing you didn't finish the story of the gasport, it's a good thing you're continuing what we started, we built, and you're talking about expansion. Good call. It is good that you continue to deepen the watercourse to Szczecin, in our time the Piast Canal was also launched, and you continue this very well. With regard to infrastructure in the Szczecin-Świnoujście Port Team, it is okay. Minister, these are good things you can't take away. But a lot of words have been said, Minister, out of your mouth, by the Members of the Law and Justice of Western Pomerania on the Batory programme. Today this is a program that is your shame because of what happened, what my previous speaker has already shown. Ladies and gentlemen! I was at a press conference where Prime Minister Szydło announced what year we would sail, what year we would be able to enjoy it. What's today, Minister? You're expanding, and well, the shuttle terminal for larger units. But you know perfectly well, Minister, that at this point the shuttles should be built by now. What do the Germans do? Germany is building a Polish terminal in Świnoujście. What are we doing? We're waiting. We say we're building. Dear Minister, The Batory programme is a huge failure for you. This is a huge failure, Minister, because unfortunately you have failed to achieve nothing under this programme, not to mention the 12 million PLN spent. No results. Any man who fails to implement the project, Minister, should have the honour and responsibility for his decisions. With regard to the subject of the Gryfia Shipyard, IAS Grifia, ladies and gentlemen, today we spoke about this at the Maritime Affairs Committee meeting. It was the country that decided to throw 200 people out of Świnoujście on the street. And when, ladies and gentlemen? Three weeks before Christmas. That is your sensitivity and empathy towards people. Unfortunately, that's the truth. Because, ladies and gentlemen, you know that Mr. Zaremba has never once been president in his Świnoujście branch all year. This is the CEO of the company? This is the CEO of a company that thinks Świnoujście is a competition? The pig that's right by the sea is the competition for Szczecin, which is a few dozen kilometers away? His bet is his competition. Minister! This is not a farm approach to the subject. We spoke a few weeks ago. I asked you before Christmas: maybe it's time to take a step back, look for solutions. The only solution was to deprive these people of their jobs. Ladies and gentlemen! What's the reality today? The fact that these people have been unemployed for 3 months, and in the next 3 months they will receive checks, i.e. summa summarum about PLN 6 million loss. That'll be another million. As for this dock, the thought of which you are so burning up today, about the effects, the expectations of how much profit it will bring, it's all on the roof, that no one, ladies and gentlemen, is able to predict, even when you build it, we don't know for what money. Minister! The idea itself is positive, while the realization, looking at the Batory programme, is very questionable. We're afraid, like we didn't have the shuttles, we're not gonna have the dock. It won't be built by SPP. Why doesn't he build it? Ladies and gentlemen, if the SPP has never built a dock, do you believe that it will suddenly? And with whom? Same as the ferry. With whom? There are no professionals there. Professionals are in Norway, in other shipyards, in German shipyards. Unfortunately, it may eventually go to Gdansk, but I do not believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this will happen. And that will be another difficult subject for you to explain yourself to the Prime Minister. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I think it's gonna be really hard for you to explain this time. So, in conclusion, we will also be against this information, because this information, Minister, is a shame to you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u372	Thank you very much, sir. Members Michał Urbaniak and Mr Krzysztof Bosak will speak on behalf of the Confederation's Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u373	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! At the beginning, I would like to remind you that when he opened the keel in Szczecin, when he was opening the project, the "Batory" project began, Prime Minister Morawiecki spoke about hope for the Polish maritime industry. Your formation... [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me. Can these social calls be moved out of the O.R.? Excuse us. Your entire formation was a hope for many Poles. Once again, however, it turns out that the United Right is simply an indignity in matters of both economic and those of the sphere of leading a strong and truly sovereign Polish state. In 2017, the Prime Minister personally nailed the keel under the first ferry, which was to be built by Poland's Baltic Shipping. We have the beginning of 2021, and the state basically has nothing but a good shepherd for its colleagues and friends. For the last three years, you have spent 12.5 million PLN and nothing has happened. There's still only a keel. I see you've just taken the motto that the taxpayer will carry. In April 2020, you set up a new company to deal with the Batory project. I'm sorry, but this really is a cabaret. How many more companies do you need to build a hull? If you were a government that really cares about Poles, which is in the interest of Poles, you would have cleaned up this mess and taken care of something serious. The Polish maritime industry is a strategic industry. Poland should turn to the sea as much as possible, and the Polish state could lead the world on maritime matters. Let us not be illusions, however, that will never be the case with your governments. No one will even take us seriously. Unfortunately, this state of affairs is also a continuation of the poor policies of previous governments. The country's predecessors were no better at all. Today, let's look at the fact that over the years of skipping the maritime industry, skipping maritime affairs at all, because we need to talk more about this, about the whole maritime policy, the Navy is swimming on museum buildings, and the Nauta shipyard - and this is your fault - has almost billions of debts and there is no good restructuring plan. You come in a delicious mood, the Minister says something's going on, but you didn't really do anything. This level of arrogance is comparable to that of your predecessors on the Civic Platform. That's the truth. And because of your policy, also the policy of closing the economy, what you do, you destroy what many Poles have built over the years. The achievements of life, stabilization and certain things tomorrow are things that the Poles have forgotten. Taxi drivers, farmers, livestock farmers whether the gastronomy industry can actually be decommissioned by now. Your crisis shields are simply holes in tools that don't help anyone. Your restrictions can't last forever. So, ladies and gentlemen, the Confederation will certainly not support this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u374	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Bosak, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u375	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I was amazed to hear the information of the Minister, not of the maritime economy anymore, the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure, explaining the failure of the ferries construction programme launched in 2017 by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, who explained this in 2021 as a result of the pandemic crisis. Minister, when did the pandemic crisis start? Last year, right? And you've been running the program since 2017. They have a good interview in China. How come you spent $12 million? How come you guys set up a special partnership? How come there are no projects? Let me explain this very simply: because instead of ordering it to those who already manufacture ships, you decided to produce ships alone, and you, as Minister, do not have time to produce ships, you have responsibilities in the office. Your political colleagues need to watch their backs, so they don't lose their positions, they don't have time to drive, watch, build, buy, settle. We have well-functioning private shipyards in Poland. I will give a flagship example of Gdańsk Shipyard, but also many other examples. I will mention several names of large shipyards: Damen Shipyards, Karstensens, Safe - Shipyard, Marine Projects, Montex Shipyard. There are also large Polish yacht shipyards: Sunreef Yachts, Galeon and many, many others, whose presence can be seen every year at the Wind and Water Fair. These are private companies that export tens of thousands of yachts a year. You probably know that, I hope. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why didn't any of these companies order the construction of those shuttles if you think they're needed? Don't repeat the sanity pattern, because that pattern didn't work. You will not be able to create from scratch new state-owned companies effectively competing with already existing private companies, which have achieved market success, because when it comes to yacht production, we are the world's second manufacturer after the USA. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u376	Thank you very much. On this list the speakers presenting the positions of parliamentary clubs and the circles were exhausted. We're going to ask questions. There were 21 Members who asked questions. Would any of you like to join the list? If not, I'm closing the list. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. Mr Rutka will be the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u377	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On the map of failure in the area of maritime affairs, there must be no shortage of a drowned project to build a rescue ship for the Maritime Search and Rescue Service, the SAR Service. After a decade, efforts were made to obtain funds from the European Union, which would cover 85% of the construction costs of the unit, estimated at PLN 280 million. It is worth noting that Poland was obliged to own a sea-going rescue ship by the Helsinki Convention and the Convention on the Law of the Sea. The age of one ship that owns the SAR is 25 years. The long way to start construction began three years ago. The project was ready, there was money, the contract engineer was selected. Unfortunately, both tenders have been cancelled. Poland managed by PiS [[♪ The bell ♪]] She turned her back to the sea. The rulers also turned their backs to the safety of life and health at sea. And when it comes to tragedy, no one will ever forgive you again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u378	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Mr Sławomir Nitras.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u379	I look at you, and I really feel sorry for you. I really feel sorry for you guys because you ruined everything you got. Everything. Who's talking? You've inherited our shuttle program. You two, Mr. Grybarczyk and Mr. Hoc, filed a notice to the prosecutor's office when the ferries were built for the previous presidents in PZB and PŻM. Szczecińska Shipyard. You've been filing a notice to the D.A.'s office. You said we'd come back, we'd build ferries. Today, Minister Grybarczyk comes out here and tells us that in the world, in Germany the number of Cruisers and ferries built has decreased. Cruisers are big cruisers. I know you've been building a ferry for six years, but that you're building tours in Poland... Ha, ha, ha! To be honest, it was worth coming to this debate. [[Applause]] May I? I also learned today that the delay in the construction of ferries and tour operators (Dzwonek) in Poland was due to a pandemic. Ha, ha, ha! You know what? You're a disgrace. As the Sports Club Shipyard fell, volleyball - in Szczecin they said that it was the biggest launching that you sunk the club - you embarrassed Szczecin all over Poland. You have ruined all the opportunities for the development of the maritime economy in Szczecin for years. You fooled all those shipbuilders, the people working in the shipbuilding industry who trusted you. To tell you the truth, I was hoping you guys wouldn't make it, but this case didn't come to my mind. We have two shipyards in Szczecin: a large shipyard, so-called, and small, renovation. Imagine that they, the president of a large shipyard, made Councilwoman of the PiS Mrs Jacina-Witt, who never had anything to do with the shipbuilding industry, who only lives with hate on Facebook and the Growler's weapon. And in a small yard, they made a man named Zaremba president, who was called a razor monkey in Szczecin. The problem is, he only insulted people. And today you gave him power over the shipbuilders. What did he do? He'd dump them all at work. It didn't occur to me that you might think that two people from the PiS, councillors, should be hired in two of the most important positions in this area just to give them positions. It never occurred to me. Mr. Marshal, time. They call you a minister of disaster in Szczecin. To tell you the truth, you will not rise from the shame you have made of the West Pomeranian and Szczecin voivodship. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u380	The question will be asked by Mr Arkadiusz Carrot.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u381	Mr. Marshal! Minister! You said you were going to rebuild the shipbuilding industry, but no one imagined you were going to rebuild the shipbuilding industry by destroying the shipyards. In Świnoujście, almost 200 people were fired just because you want to sell the yard's assets. You're saying it's to save this shipyard. You know, ladies and gentlemen, what did the board of this yard do? He moved all the infrastructure from Świnoujście to Szczecin and to whoever bought this piece of land on which the shipyard was located banned ship repair activities. What does that say? This shows that such activity pays off in this place, but it needs to be well organized, professionally organized. But if you give to the management of this shipyard people like those who manage it today (the bell), it will end in an even greater disaster. Yardmen on the pavement, before Christmas, you did it, so I'm asking, Minister, did anyone come forward on Friday who was willing to buy this property after the shipyard in Świnoujście. I'm asking you to answer the question of whether or not somebody's gonna make the land and what's gonna happen to those shipbuilders. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u382	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Konrad Frysztak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u383	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Instead of building ships, you fight the anglers. This is my observation after these few months of being a parliamentarians and chairman of the Group. fishing. But not about this. Ladies and gentlemen! Shipyards in Szczecin, shipyards in Gdańsk, but there is still a Polish Armored Group, which has a Navy shipyard. What about her? There's a wind storm in it. There are no government contracts, the loss of PGZ for 2019 is over PLN 1200 million. The company that is registered in Radom, which in Radom pays taxes, has achieved such loss by your government. This is your fault. We left you PGZ in good financial condition after years of government of the Civic Platform and PSL, and you even managed to butcher PGZ. This is a farce. You have amnesia. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: I do not know if parliamentarians [[♪ The bell ♪]] present in this Chamber know this, but Mesko in Skarżysk is about to begin a strike. It's because of you, too. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u384	The question will be asked by Mr Adam Szłapka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u385	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! That keel and that piece of rusty sheet metal. It's a monument to your incompetence, dylanism, but also extreme hypocrisy, because you... [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr President, it is your colleagues who are bothering you with your question. Don't disturb me. This is a monument to incompetence, dylanism, but also extreme hypocrisy, because you built the entire campaign on the alleged reconstruction of the shipbuilding industry and ruined everything that could be lost. This is the result of your statism, because you have to put your hand on everything, politicalize it, and you have absolutely no knowledge of any management. I have a question: Why, since you are already so full-time, e.g. Couldn't public television help the shipyard in Świnoujście? She can afford it. [[Applause]] You gave her $2 billion. Or could Orlen have invested? [[♪ The bell ♪]] After all, it can also carry out great economic projects. You want everything to be stubborn, political, and that way you'll destroy everything. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u386	Thank you. The question will now be asked by Barbara Nowack.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u387	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! How is it that something that was glory, jobs, hope for innovation, for a strong economy, for your governments is being destroyed? How is it that the shipbuilding industry in your time - before the pandemic too - is just ruined? Two examples. Nauta Shiprepair Yard. 2015 - 6 million profit. 2018, i.e. your governments - 58 million losses. PGZ War Shipyard in Gdynia. It was supposed to be great, the contracts, the contracts from the ministry. So? There are no contracts. How is it that companies of the State Treasury, companies dependent on the State Treasury, companies key to industry in your time of government are failing, are they in trouble? Why aren't you developing our state property? Why don't you care about Polish industry? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Then you say you're patriots. Well, you're not patriotic in the economy. And about you, Minister, after you shut down the Maritime Authority in Slupsk, they say that the real purpose was that you wanted it closer to you. So? And the Main Maritime Office is to be established in Warsaw because you live there. The people of Słupska won't forget it for you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u388	The question will now be asked by Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u389	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This keel corresponds to the vital needs of society as a whole. This is a keel on the scale of our capabilities. Do you know what we're doing with this keel? We open our eyes to the disbelievers. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] You know what? This keel looks pretty cool. I think she would really be perfect for a monument: a monument to the failure of the PiS. I'm just afraid if one side serves as one example, it's a little too few pages. On one side we have a program called Batory, which is the construction of ferries. After two, there's electric cars. After 3:00? Well, we can have a place to live plus. Four o'clock, they're gonna be... And drones. Oh, drones. And the Central Communication Port. I think it's gonna have to be CPK on top. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we will need a few more of these keels so that we can fully illustrate the failure of this government. Ladies and gentlemen, you say, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you think the pandemic interrupted you? That ferry was supposed to be swimming by now. He was to swim in 2020 and was to be launched in 2019. Did the Pandemic bother you? So, I'm sorry, did you see it coming? [[Applause]] His eye's broken. That bear.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u390	The question will be asked by Mr Artur Łącki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u391	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I could, like colleagues, ask you about the Batory program, which should really be called Sorry Batory and not Batory. I could ask you about rebuilding the shipbuilding industry. But how do you ask a gravedigger about rebuilding anything? [[Applause]] Let me ask you something else. There's a pandemic period, you say. The city of Świnoujście and the potential of these people and their prosperity stand on two legs: tourism and shipbuilding. Thin both. Tourism's down. People don't have anything to put on. Small Polish companies fall, no tourists, closed sanatoriums, no tourists from Germany, closed premises, no money. What are you doing to help these people? You're cutting off the other leg. Now (Bingle) in a pandemic period, you're taking down a shipyard in Świnoujście and throwing over 200 people on the street. And now, ladies and gentlemen, listen to what their morals are. What are they saying? They say: we provide them all with work at the shipyard in Szczecin. Do you know how long it takes to get from Piglet to Szczecin? 160 km one way, of which 50 by the city of Szczecin. Over 300 kilometers. It's a four-hour drive. You want them to get up at an hour. 3 a.m. and they came home at 3 p.m. 12 a.m. This is your social morality. This is yours. I'm not gonna say what. But for that, you will be held accountable by the sovereign. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u392	The question will be asked by Marek Owl.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u393	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll admit, Minister, that information was pathetic. I would recommend your kind attention to the report prepared by the Members of the Civic Platform, the Civic Coalition on the 5th anniversary of the governments. One chapter is devoted to the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping, which you have managed for 5 years. This ministry with the sea had so much in common that it was a sea of incompetence, amateurism and unfulfilled promises. What have you done for five years? My speakers paid a lot of attention to the Batory programme. This should be the Sorry Batory program because you've failed this government program. You're repeating yourself. Instead of investments and jobs, we have redundancies and sales of assets, failure in rebuilding (the bell) of the shipbuilding industry. You said you didn't make ships because of the pandemic. There were only five of them. In 2010 they were 24 ships and in 2018 they were six. It has nothing to do with the pandemic. Everyone knows it. You've caused this sector to disappear. Amateurs behind the helms of state-owned companies. I don't know if you remember, there was a law called lex Horała so that your friends could include unqualified supervisory functions in those companies that you just led to the brink of disaster and collapse. It's your work, it's your work - pathetic, it's true. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u394	I would like to ask Mr Mirosław Suchon's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u395	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In 2017, the law, in respect of which you said so, has entered into force, you have practiced such propaganda that it will facilitate the operation of the shipyard, and you have announced that the barriers are magically disappearing and that from then on ferries and other large units will be built in Polish shipyards. There's been a Batory program. He was such a maritime part, the maritime component of the deputy prime minister Morawiecki, which was the construction of ferries in Polish shipyards. There's a keel. But unfortunately, it turned out to be all propaganda. You've got the shipbuilding industry. But that's not all, because this is how you got all the companies that worked with this industry all over Poland and thanks to it they lived. When we talked here almost two years ago about your cancellation, we poured a solid bucket of Baltic on your head. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Cold water and, frankly, I thought it would shake you up, that you'd wake up for two years, get to work, start working, and do something, and start this industry, and help the economy. And I must tell you that you are a phenomenon to me - I think to many people. Even though you sunk the entire shipbuilding industry in Poland, you swim. You're unsinkable. You're unsinkable. [[Applause]] Let me ask you, do you have the honour to do this on your own and resign? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u396	The question will be asked by Małgorzata Chmiel.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u397	The Minister and Mr PiS spoke about how much the PO-PSL government was selling the shipbuilding industry. Ladies and gentlemen, it was the PiS who was selling. It's a PiS. Remember who sold Gdańsk Shipyard. He sold the president, who was your prominent politician, your Member. He sold it to the Ukrainians. So? For a much, much higher price two years ago, you bought this shipyard back, talking about recolonization, not adding that you bought it from the Ukrainians you sold it to. And I just wanted to say that there hasn't been any ship built in two years. Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to ask you what happened to Nauta State Repair Yard. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's been in restructuring with the Navy shipyard for a year. Instead of restructuring, there's just a change of board. There's no plan. The RP Navy is sinking. It currently counts 40 battleships, the average age is over 30 years. They'll have to be withdrawn. The purchase programme for patrol ships and coast defence vessels has not been implemented. The idea of buying two Australian 25-year-old Adelaide fregats was compromised. Dear Minister, Aren't you ashamed of what you said here and what you're doing with the Polish shipbuilding industry? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u398	Thank you very much. I'm short. If you would allow me, I would like Janusz Korwin-Mikke, who asked for the floor on this issue, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u399	Just a little bit of information. Someone mentioned a Navy shipyard in Gdynia. Well, I wanted to remind you that in previous PiS governments, a man sold four ships, means he made orders in this shipyard for four canonaries for Oman. They did it, they sold it, and he went to jail. Thank you. What? He's gone to jail. But he knew what for. He didn't know what for. He died.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u400	Janusz Szopiński will ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u401	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, When I read the program Batory, I know that it should be treated as one of the elements of the power of our country and the Polish economy, such as millions of electric cars or millions of apartments and similar propaganda slogans that Poles have been feeding for a nice few years. Minister! I will not torment you with difficult questions about the implementation of plans for the construction of Polish ferry shipping, because what is the state, everyone sees. Let me ask you one thing: how much does it cost to keep the waterfront on which the monument to the failure of the Polish government was erected in the form of a keel under a ferry that never arose? How much does a Polish taxpayer pay a year to make the whole world laugh at us, looking at a dozen tons of steel with piety painted every now and then so that it doesn't digest this rust? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How could a keel be built under a ferry that had not yet come off the drawing boards at that time? Minister, I kindly ask you to answer me in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u402	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Czesław Hoc.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u403	Dear Marshal, Minister! I know there's a rogue law of opposition to speak, even in a messy way, anything you want. Meanwhile, you should take the advice of a classic French politician, take the opportunity to keep your mouth shut. You're the undertakers of the shipbuilding industry. In 2008, 2009 you... Eight years, right? In the last eight years... ...you've eliminated the shipbuilding industry. And then what was your flagship program? [[What about Świnoujście?]] You've retrained highly qualified workers into night make-up specialists... Hairdressers. ...dog hairdressers. You guys are the makeup guys. With all due respect to this profession. 4,000. You threw people out on the street because plus the co-op companies. How much did you throw on the tabloids of professionals who had to retrain as florists and perform a different kind of competition, of course, with all due respect. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will you stay for the second debate to talk about entrepreneurs? Meanwhile, the Government of Law and Justice came, Minister G grubarczyk. Depth of the water track, shipping track by 12.5 m. You guys have been talking about these tracks all along, and we're doing it, we're done, we're done. Container terminal in Świnoujście, gasport and around-port infrastructure. It's power. It's a tunnel. Under the Swine River... I'll show you the power. ...S3 route. I'll show you the power. This is your power. Yes, sir. To the prosecutor's office, to Mr Nitras, who was also the rapporteur of the specialty, we served the PJB because you wanted to sell the property, which now amounts to about PLN 200 million of equity capital, you wanted to sell it for a proverbial pear cap, for a handful of nuts, so we served it to the prosecutor's office. And now we are a tycoon for ferry shipping in Europe. It's gonna cut out. So have a little humility, a little reflection. You should really think about it and be ashamed that you've shut down the shipbuilding industry, and now you're great healers. Shame on you. They're thinners and screamers.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u404	The question will be asked by Dariusz Joński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u405	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On 11 May 2016, you from this place, I read, said this: 2008 is a disaster in the maritime economy, because it was the PO-PSL that shut down the Ministry of Maritime Economy - attention, I quote further - in this way the competence and organizational centre of the maritime economy was broken down. This is how you started your speech on 11 May 2016. It is 21 January 2021, I am looking for your Ministry - there is no Ministry of Maritime Affairs. You crashed the competence and organizational center of the maritime economy. Why? [[Applause]] It's a disaster. But something happened in the middle, in the meantime: feta, sticking a keel, that's what we remember. What's today? The flat is rusty... I'd like to correct... ...Mr. Minister has wound up his ministry. I'd like to ask you about the 12.5 million. Where's the 12.5 million, Minister? Are any of you even responsible for this public money, or are we gonna ask at every point where the money is lost? I've been in control of the Ministry of Health so far, but I'd love to see where the 12.5 million are. Mr Szczerby is not here, but I think he would also like to look at you and ask where the 12.5 million is. You're hiding in another ministry, you've eliminated that, and you don't think there's a subject. But it was $12.5 million for something. Get out here and tell me what the public money went for. Do you have the courage or not? You're gonna tell me? The payroll fund. If not, I understand that MEPs can check this out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u406	Thank you very much. In the procedure of correcting Mr Sławomir Nitras.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u407	Mr. Speaker! I'm surprised you're leaving this case. You're from Kolobrzeg. I need to correct what you said. You filed a notice to the D.A. because the D.A. bought a used ferry that renovated and sailed today, and that's how he got the money. That's why you filed a notice to the D.A.'s office. This is the first correction. And the other, both of you. Let's put an end to this myth that we're the ones that took down the shipyards. This is your biggest lie. Oh, yeah? You were to rule from 2005 to 2009, it only lasted until 2007, because that's how you ruled. You've lost your power. In 2008, the yard was closed as a result of a failure to implement a programme agreed with the European Commission, a resolution programme. You helped, you put billions of zlotys into the yard that were eaten over, and the European Commission concluded that you had not achieved the effect that the shipyards had not achieved the effect needed to recognise this aid as allowed and ordered the recovery of public aid. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's why the shipyard fell. You were the ones who were helping. I will tell you more: the president of this yard was the current president or vice president of the Gryfia shipyard. It was the PiS and, unfortunately, earlier on, the Left granted public aid in an unlawful manner, without the expected results, and therefore the European Commission, while taking care of competition policy, ordered the closure of these establishments, i.e. the reimbursement of public aid. And what you've been doing for years is manipulation. The only problem is that by lying, you can drive a little bit and gain power, but by lying and only lying on the basis of your policy, you cannot build a ferry, maintain a yard and make Szczecin and Gdańsk the leading centers of the shipbuilding industry. You've been in charge for eight years and you haven't done anything. A lie can only be won once. You guys are over this time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u408	Thank you very much. Last round of corrections for this set of MPs, because we're gonna be sitting till morning. And the other question was from me. Mr Czesław Hoc.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u409	Dear Marshal, Mr Nitras! You're the one who lied, and you admitted it yourself. Remember? You're lying about me lying. About the Minister of Lubinska. Remember? You confessed yesterday. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, it was to the D.A.'s office, and then we even served it to the Home Office because it was just renovated... Well, you admit it. She's swimming. The ferry was renovated for over PLN 60 million, and they wanted to sell PŻB for 35 million. For PLN 35 million. We served it to... I have to... Those were the facts. After all, I served and together... This ferry is here, and yours is gone. Those were the facts you wanted to sell for a proverbial pear cap. Not much, you were the rapporteur for the specialty of dismantling shipyards in Szczecin and Gdynia. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] What do you mean? ...the rapporteur's seat... the specialty... I'm gonna sue you for that. Gentlemen, I ask you very much not to discuss this, but please finish your corrigendum. Come on. [[♪ The bell ♪]] During the time when the shipyard was liquidated in Szczecin, Prime Minister Donald Tusk was accidentally awarded a German prize to them. Walther Rathenau, so the Pole-eaters... And he speaks German. ...who said about Poland that this is a seasonal state. Of course, it's a coincidence. The truth hurts. Mr President, you are from the Western Pomerania. Indeed, I ask you to be serious and to behave according to your standards.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u410	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Czesław Mroczek. Mr. Marshal, in one sentence... Mr President, I said that this concludes the correction tour because we will be sitting until the morning. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u411	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, it is our job to assess the PiS government's activities in the field of shipbuilding development and the implementation of important state maritime programmes. In 2017, Prime Minister Morawiecki, then Minister of Development, Minister Brudziński, Minister Macierewicz, Minister Gróbarczyk announced a great programme of Batory. One of the largest shipbuilding groups in the Baltic, in Europe, was to be built ferries, submarines, other ships for the Navy. In 2020 we already learned the effects of this program: the liquidation of the company that built the foundations for offshore wind farms, the liquidation of the Gryfia shipyard in Świnoujście (Dzwonek), the dismissal in Gdańsk Shipyard, the fatal situation of the Navy Shipyard. This is a picture of the economic collapse without precedent. We are talking not about PLN 12 million, but about a total of several hundred million PLN involved in this programme and largely lost. Today, this issue should not be dealt with by Members, but by law enforcement authorities. It's not $12 million, it's a couple hundred million. But there is another very important aspect to this matter. This is not only about the economic crash, it is important that Polish security has been affected. After all, the ships for the Navy, submarines, other water vessels for the defense of the coast, patrol ships were to be carried out. Those programs are down. The Navy will no longer have submarines or submarines. We're trying to assess the effectiveness of the Navy, its ability to perform defence tasks in our country. We wanted to do this at the defence committee meeting in December. Minister Błaszczak called the head of the committee and said: this item cannot be discussed. Not only are you unable to carry out important public tasks, you are still obstructing the state control, the parliament of your actions. Not only can you not, but you also hide your inability. You're not supposed to be accounted for today, you're supposed to be accounted for by the D.A. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u412	I would like to ask Mrs Zofia Czernow for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u413	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I am deeply disappointed by the Minister's speech, which can be described as a great hydration. The Minister, first of all, referred to the rule of the Civic Platform - as one of the accomplices - and also to the pandemic. He also said the government had big plans. It's about a strategy for responsible development. So slides, slides and slides. These slides are over. In addition, several hundred million zloty of losses incurred by the state budget. The great plans to build the largest shipbuilding group in Europe, the construction of the submarines mentioned just now, the ferries - every announcement of such projects was accompanied by a great show, great propaganda. Today the Minister says that the strategy needs to be worked out. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to ask why, if you can't manage, you have a bad attitude towards the Polish economy, because it only brings losses - this is your approach - why are you recolonizing? You buy different institutions for cash to destroy them? To fill them with your own people? It's just calling for revenge to heaven. Thank you. [[Applause]] Amen.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u414	I would ask you to ask Arthur Szałabawka. There isn't. In that case, Mrs Joanna Borowiak. Even your fellow Members do not want to defend you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u415	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Today, in this room, the hypocrisy of the opposition has reached the bottom of the Baltic Sea. [[Joy in the Chamber]] The Baltic is shallow. Do you know how many meters the Baltic is? I will remind you, in 2009, under the regime of the Platform and PSL, Gdynia Shipyard and Szczecińska Shipyard were liquidated - the largest plant in Szczecin, Mr Nitras. Thousands of people lost their jobs. By what? By political decision and lack of State aid. What did the Platform and PSL government propose to fire people? Let's hear it. In the best years Szczecińska Shipyard employed up to 10,000. persons. After the fall, most shipbuilders left for work, among others. to Germany, Norway and Sweden. You have no idea. Those who remained were offered - attention - changing on dog hairdressers, evening makeup specialists or florists. We'll see about the miners. The yard was wound up in 2009 with a compensatory act. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The rapporteur in the Seym was who then? Nitras. Mr Sławomir Nitras. Bravo. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Today, [[Applause]] who have shown that they can only roll up the economy... Mr. Marshal. ...are experts. The experts have revealed themselves to us, ladies and gentlemen. Minister! I have a question. How did the liquidation of Gdynia Shipyard and SSN affect the situation of the Polish economy? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] It's the pandemic.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u416	I must congratulate the PiS Members who allow Mr Sławomir Nitras such a show. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u417	There's an old joke: why does a forest ranger go? A hunter. I don't think you guys come out here to defend yourselves, just to... What? She moved, didn't she? Does it hurt? Listen up, guys. I'll say it because you don't know that in the election campaign, your minister Grybarczyk told the same lies you repeat. Get to the point. You know what happened? The court ruled he was lying. Get to the point. The court has ruled that he is to apologize to me. What did Mr. Tomblark do? He's from the PiS. [[Applause]] His judgments don't apply. He didn't apologize. Kaczynski doesn't apologize to Sikorski. The tomber won't apologize to Nitras. Court... He's gonna apologize because he's gonna lose the other case. That's a lie. Mr. Marshal, may I? The compensation bill only served so that the leaving shipbuilders would receive more aid than if it were a mere bankruptcy. And why did the shipyard fall? Because of Brudziński's and Grabarczyk's politics. That's the only reason. You pumped the money, but do you know what kind of managers you guys are? Do you know what it is? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u418	Thank you very much. You were in German service. The last person in this round of corrections, Mrs Joanna Borowiak. Shortly, one sentence.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u419	Thank you very much, Marshal, for allowing me to say a few more words. A couple of lies. (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Don't tell me someone insulted you and didn't apologize. I would like to remind you that in the previous term you insulted me in this Chamber as a woman and a Member of the Sejm and my Seym colleague, Anna Milczanowska. The ethics committee told you to apologize, and you didn't. Of course I did. What does that have to do with the case? Mr President, you have not apologized to me until today. Mr President, please do not refer to the lack of apologies because you have been offended. You can't insult me. You insulted women, Polish messengers in the Polish Sejm. There's one more thing. I'll skip the magnification of my friends' purses in 2016 in this room... Mr. Marshal. ...but you kicked Mrs Iwona Arendt and you didn't apologize either. Can you talk about anything other than me? Mr President, look in the mirror.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u420	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u421	High Izbo! Dear colleagues! When I was in the NZS - this year we celebrated the existence of the NSZ and its achievements - this state of mind was called a session fool. Unfortunately, it was absolutely achieved on this side, but you failed the session. [[Applause]] Can we do that? Minister Grybarczyk will go down to history as the creator of the Polish rust belt with a keel as a monument to this rust. [[Joy in the Chamber]] That's good. That's good. So that in this area there will be not only Jarzyna from Szczecin, but also the Grabierczyk on the keel. [[Applause]] But he doesn't know what a rust belt is. He doesn't know for sure. But let's cut to the chase. It's a cabaret... Company Kędzierzyn-Koźle Terminale - PLN 60 million. 300 million were to be invested. So? Ostrołęka Power Plant. How's Ostrołęka? The PiS government couldn't make the tracks available. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Former Minister of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, please respond in writing to what you have done in this matter so that the shoulders can swim from Kędzierzyn-Koźl. How many bars did it take? What can you do? Don't go waltzing, or you won't either, and God forbid swimming under the ice. Thank you. [[Applause]] But he can try.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u422	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Paul Krutul to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u423	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Let's stick to the facts... [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr... Can you allow me to ask you a question? Let him talk. Thank you. Let's stick to the facts. Under the government, the shipyard in Świnoujście fell, 200 people went to the pavement. Yes or no? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Oh, no, okay, bomb. In 2020, the Russian Federation commissioned its shipyards to produce 16 submarines. The Ministry of Defence - I am a member of the committee - is wondering if it would be possible to dump 40-year-old ships from Sweden. So that our competition in the Baltic Sea will not increase. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's so interesting. Prime Minister Leszek Miller on one of these ships served as a young man. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] He hasn't apologized to you yet. I wish the Prime Minister well. Shame, sir! No, these are facts. Member, please recreate this and say it later. Can I remind you of your speech with TVP Info? Remind me? In five years of rule of law and justice, the Navy of our country feels safer. Do you know why, my fellow Member? Why are you... I'm the one who's gonna tell you because you don't know it, but you're gonna read it. You've launched one ship, a Semko tow truck. Ha, ha, ha! I suspect the Russian Federation is trembling now. So, ladies and gentlemen, let's not talk about dumbass stuff... Who told you that? ...only about the production of warships in our country's shipyards, which are not in the state of government. And as far as the Navy is concerned, Minister Mroczek just spoke, you didn't build or buy anything for our Navy. Thank you very much. Mr... I'm an MP, and you're not on the defense committee, and you don't know that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] They're telling you wrong.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u424	The question will be asked by Mr Jarosław Rzep.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u425	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A few short questions. Minister, is it true that there are employees from Ukraine recruited by Mr Taruta's son's company in IAS Griffy? Let me remind you, Minister, this is about the shipyard that bought back... You sold the shipyard in Gdansk in 2005 and then bought it back, it's not known for how much. Minister, is it true that these workers earn 48 PLN an hour, and our shipbuilders earn less than 30 PLN? Is it true, Minister, that these workers worked in Lublin, where they were not allowed to do so? Another matter, Minister, I would like to know from when Lublin stands in IAS Griffin, until when will he stand and how much has IAS Griffin paid the penalties for not being able to complete this renovation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, it would be worth thinking about the new board because this board will sink you as well.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u426	Thank you very much. Are you Mr. Krzysztof Bosak? You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u427	Firstly, I would like to ask you a question of order, that is why you show through the way you organize this debate, moving it late at night, when, as you can see, government camp politicians do not have the energy to accompany... But great. ...to his deputy minister, there is no prime minister here who personally nailed these rivets to the keel with an ornamented hammer in Szczecin in 2017, disregarding people from the shipbuilding industry... You guys talk, we do our job. Will you allow the Members to speak calmly? Thank you very much. So why do you ignore these economic issues? There will be another economic theme in a moment. The late shift, the night, is an expression of disregard for everyone involved. Second thing. If this is government information, we haven't learned anything here. This question is repeated in many Members, and I will also ask it. If no ferry was built or designed, what did 12.5 million go to? Paydays. Pathetic.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u428	Thank you very much. The list of Members of the Committee for Questions has been exhausted. The Secretary of State will answer the questions previously asked... ...the ethics committee... Mr President, can you calm your emotions... I'm very calm. ...so the Minister can answer his questions in peace? You're welcome, Minister. I think six years of peace is enough.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u429	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, you didn't ask any questions here... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] A nose mask. The mask. ...only invectives, I don't know, bad words... Mask. Again? A nose mask. Nose mask. We need to breathe... [[Joy in the Chamber]] Minister, wait a minute, wait a minute. A nose mask. What? Calm down, all right, fellas. There you go. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Marek Grybarczyk: Good. Ladies and gentlemen! It can be said that for the first time after the collapse of the commune, we have so much investment in the maritime economy. A few investments need to be mentioned here, which are of crucial importance for this industry. It's a construction of a shipping track, 12.5 m, or a dig through the Vistula Mill. You just cut out the trees. This is obviously another industry, another area of the industry. But the result of more than 100 million tons of overloaded goods... Russian coal. ...should cause you some element, I don't know, to think about what happened in your day. [[Game in the O.R.]] I don't think it makes much sense to answer questions, because you just don't listen. But you have a duty to answer questions. However, what is essential is that for the first time we have introduced a very broad programme related to maritime investment... Well, yeah, yeah, another one. ...and I want to assure you that the ferries must be built. It is not our idea that we will build ferries, because these ferries are simply needed for Polish shipowners. PZM, PZB have this condition when it comes to the construction of shuttles... Where are they? But you don't build those shuttles. Mr. Marshal, you can't... Once again, I ask Members to allow the Minister to respond. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Marek Grybarczyk: The shuttles must be built for a simple reason... We know, but how many shuttles are there gonna be? ... Because companies have to function. And whether we want it or not, whether the government wants it or doesn't want it, these shuttles have to be built. How much did you build? Of course, the biggest problem is the shipyards that weren't prepared... But how much did you build? ...because in 2008, as has already been stated, the Civic Platform and PSL were simply shut down as far as production is concerned. You're so excited. But the implementation of this programme will not end and it has not ended in any way. [[The bustle, the fun in the room.]] But, Marshal, this is not a cabaret, this is the Sejm. The construction of the ferries will be carried out and must be completed. As I have already said to you, the implementation of this will be based on two shipowners, the PJM and the PJB, and thus will be carried out, brought to an end. Of course, the problem is the deadline, because we assumed much earlier. I think I paid the right price for that. This has not been accomplished for many reasons, but the main reason is... Pandemic. The flu, I think. ...that the shipbuilding industry was simply not fully able to recover after the fall. Besides, the manufacturing industry suffered not only for historical reasons related to the Civic Platform, but also for other reasons. It's manufacturing, first of all. I hope your political leader doesn't hear that. You're sinking. But one aspect is most important here. Ladies and gentlemen, it rained here many times. Mr Nitras was the Member of the Member who had liquidated the shipbuilding industry here, from this speaker presenting the yard compensation bill. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr Nitras is a man who has eliminated him through this law, being a man of the Civic Platform and simply wishing this industry badly. You weren't listening. Not much, you could say in court that you didn't know anything about it. You're the one lying again. Why are you lying? You don't know what you've been reading. You were a little, uh, not quite a wise envoy, because you knew nothing about it, and that's why you only read that the shipyard isn't going to be destroyed. Minister, could you answer the questions... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Marek Grybarczyk: So once again, I want to say, the only person... But how many shuttles did you build? 'Cause in a minute, everyone's gonna think that any kind of trouble... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Marek Grybarczyk: The only person in Szczecin who was aware of what was going on, but he's doing everything he can to get it off his chest, but you're not gonna make it, even though you're gonna go to the courts of any... How many shuttles did you build? ...is just a Nitras. He destroyed the shipbuilding industry in Szczecin. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u430	Minister, you could really be expected to address the issue in substance... Discredited. ...and it did not give the impression that Mr Nitras is the cause of this disaster that you are the author of. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Bravo, Marshal. Mr. Marshal, I don't think you needed those statements because you allowed a catastrophic debate. The discussion is closed. Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry. Mr. Marshal, well, that's the minister talking. A request for rejection was made in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal at the next session of the Sejm. But, Marshal, you don't have the right to... We proceed with the consideration of item 25 of the agenda: Information from the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Development, Labour and Technology on the situation of the sectors most at risk of loss of revenue during the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic and proposals to support workers and entrepreneurs in 2021. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology of Mr. Mark Niełużak to present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u431	Mr. Marshal... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Who are you? Excuse me, Minister. Who are you? Really. It was to be Deputy Prime Minister Gowin. Where does it say that? On the schedule. Do you want me to take a half-hour break? Absolutely not. What do you mean, "Gowin"? Let us take the floor of the Minister. There you go. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology Marek Nieżak: Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Let's start with the fact that the overall situation of the Polish economy, especially against the background of other EU countries, looks pretty good. We have had a very difficult year and we all know it, but it is estimated that at this moment the Polish economy is the fourth economy in the European Union in terms of resilience to the pandemic crisis. I always stress on such occasions that it is primarily due to Polish entrepreneurs and Polish employees. That, I think, shouldn't raise any doubts in this room either. On the other hand, this is largely also the result of the fact that on time and on a very large scale very much aid has been paid to entrepreneurs and indirectly to employees. Of course, the question also concerns those industries that are in the most difficult situation. It will not be surprising that the data indicates that the most difficult are mostly in sectors that involve catering, accommodation. That's what the data indicates. I don't know, I have very little time here, but an example of specific data... Just one. The number of tourists in November year-to-year, as compared to the previous year with 2019 - is a decrease of 80%. This is the obvious effect of the pandemic: reduced mobility, virtually no foreign tourists. It is obvious that these industries suffer from this extremely much. But what is sometimes heard here is not true. I think even in the previous discussion, on the margins of the previous discussion, one of the Members who spoke gave the slogan that companies were dying. Let me put it this way: this statement is no longer reflected in the data, because we actually have a significant increase in restructuring and bankruptcy proceedings, but a strong majority of them These are restructuring proceedings, so those that are aimed at rescuing companies. People are trying to save companies with private money. Man, what are you talking about? If we look at the number of companies - because I heard such a voice here - I would like to point out that according to data based on the database REGON we have 139,000 at this point. more - I'm sorry, not at this point, this is the data at the end of last year, 31 December 2020 - companies than in February 2020. So that I'm aware of that and I'm not going to paint it pink here, because we know that the situation in many industries is very difficult. On the other hand, when we look at the data, I would say this: nothing to take into account individual tragedies of entrepreneurs from these sectors, which are most affected by the pandemic situation, is not that the economic situation of Poland is - I don't know - bad, tragic that companies are failing. That's not true, ladies and gentlemen. It's not? No, it's not. Like I said, I was just giving specific data on this. When we look at it, for example. for unemployment, yes, in December we saw an increase of 0.1 percentage points. If you look at it and compare it with previous years, it's practically within the standards of fluctuations, seasonal. Do you know why? When we look at the mood of companies, yes, in the next three months 9% companies plan to fire workers, but 13% plans to employ. So by looking at the data, a picture is generally drawn, which is already referred to as a K-shaped reflection. That means that most of the economy has had a reflection in the last few months, which is why one of the lines in the letter "K." And of course there are those industries that suffer most, they go down. I'll still have time to talk at the end. Then I'll tell you more about the help that was given. But now I'm going to talk about this number, which is also very often raining here. During this year the transfer of aid to entrepreneurs already exceeded PLN 170 billion. This is an unprecedented amount in the history of the Third Republic of Poland. Also in the European Union, if we compare it as a percentage of GDP (the bell), i.e. given the real possibilities of Poland, we are one of the countries that provide the most support to their entrepreneurs. It's very late, so maybe I'll stick to the time frame. Thank you very much. (Applause) Ambitious information. But what's with the applause, my fellow Member? Minister, don't go that far.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u432	Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would now like to ask Mrs Urszula Rusecka, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u433	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The SARS-CoV-2 Pandemic caused the world, states, nations to face huge challenges. None of the countries had ready-made scenarios to fight an unknown virus. We created our own solutions based on the authority of Polish and world scientists. The Government of the United Right had three main objectives: protecting the life and health of Poles, helping entrepreneurs and workers, maintaining jobs. Starting with the discovery of the first cases of Coronavirus, the Polish government responded adequate to the threat. Instantly, the boundaries were closed, the schools. There's been a ban on mass events. One-name hospitals were created, a number of measures were put in place to flatten the disease curve. And it worked. In parallel, unprecedented aid has been launched to save the economy. Encouraging packages have been implemented, such as an anti-crisis shield, a financial shield and assistance provided by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego and the Industrial Development Agency. Only thanks to the 1.0 350,000 shield. Entrepreneurs have been rescued. Polish companies have been visited, as the Minister said, by PLN 175 billion, and in total over 300 billion have already been spent on the fight against the pandemic. In comparison, when there was a crisis situation between 2008 and 2009, and the Platform was in charge with PSL, the anti-crisis package was 9 billion. No demagogy, no demagogy, no demagogy. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a chasm. The United Right Government has saved over 5 million jobs. According to the European Commission's forecasts, the International Monetary Fund has been successful. This is demonstrated by hard economic data. We have the second lowest unemployment rate in the European Union. Contrary to the total, objective criticism of the opposition and the total lack of cooperation on the part of the opposition, in the summer months of 2020 the government was intensive in order to prepare the country for the second wave of pandemics. Massive purchases of personal protective materials, medical equipment were carried out and laboratory sites were destroyed by the Civic Platform, thus increasing the testing capacity. The country has been divided into green, yellow and red zones. Particular attention is paid to the responsible attitude of the compatriots, which has undoubtedly contributed to reducing the negative effects of the pandemic. Unfortunately, according to estimates of epidemiologists, the second wave also did not miss Poland. The sudden increase in disease forced the closure of certain sectors of the economy. In view of the above, additional solutions included in the industry shield and the financial shield 2.0 have been adopted aimed at the most affected industries. There is not enough time to talk about all the mechanisms that support entrepreneurs within 5 minutes, there are really a lot of them. We are aware that the situation in tourism, gastronomic, hotel, stage, fitness and many others is extremely difficult. The government remains in constant dialogue with business representatives, broadens the scope of their dedicated assistance and includes support for further groups. The Law and Justice Club fully supports government policy in the fight against the coronavirus and appreciates its positive economic and social effects. We are also aware that the individual effects of reducing the activity of many companies raise great concerns about the future of business owners and their families. We hope that none of the entrepreneurs will be left without help. We hope that the Government of the United Right in the further partnership dialogue will improve the existing action and support for all sectors in need. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Please. Bravo.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u434	Thank you very much, Member. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by Mr Sławomir Nitras.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u435	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! Hello. Minister, do you know that when you entered the podium, all Members asked the question, who are you? About. Because we know that the government is helping entrepreneurs, we know there's a prime minister, his name is Morawiecki, he's still working on helping entrepreneurs, we all know him. We know that there was a deputy prime minister named Emilevich who was involved in helping entrepreneurs... Skiing. They have good news every day. We know there's a Deputy Prime Minister Gowin who has good news every day. There's this Deputy Minister Semeniuk here who tells us every day how many billions more of your help you're giving us. But it's the first time we've seen you. The rest of you skiing. And we're wondering who you are and where Mr Morawiecki is. You already know that. This is a debate that all entrepreneurs listen to. Where's Mr. Morawiecki, where's Mr. Gowin, where's Mrs. Emilevich, though we're guessing here, and where's Mrs. Semeniuk? Skiing. Where are the people who are the helpers for whom the entrepreneurs are so grateful? You said, I will quote that today we are Poland, our economy, in the fourth place in Europe. You know, go to all those restaurants, all those fitness people you said two words to, all the hotel guys, and tell them we're in fourth place in Europe. You know, you said four minutes and you said it was late. Is it true that we are in fourth place, that is the message you have for Polish entrepreneurs? They're supposed to feed these kids? I wanted to show you the art. 22 Constitution - gentlemen - if you do not know: restricting the freedom of economic activity is permitted only by law and only because of the important public interest. You locked up hotels, closed restaurants, shut down virtually the entire economy illegally... Fitness. ...because there's no law in this case. Now I'm talking to all entrepreneurs because it doesn't make any sense to them: today you can see how important independent judiciary is, because it's independent courts, provided they're independent, they'll judge whether the closure of your restaurants, your hotels, your ice rinks, meaningless is legal or not. Not Ziobro, not Kaczyński, just independent courts, on one condition: that we defend them. The Lord also said today that you know that the biggest problem is in the hospitality and catering industry. You know, and I got today's government announcement from the website that you've extended the PKD. Today is January 21st, this is the communication - support for further industries according to PKD: 55.10 - hotels and similar accommodation facilities, 55.20 - accommodation facilities, tourist facilities and short-stay accommodation, 55.30 - campsites - this is also interesting, 79.11 - activities of tourist agents, tourism organizers, activities supporting transport. Minister, you know these are the sectors most affected. You guys are typing them into the PKD today. Do you know what Members do today? Every day people come to our Members' Offices who say: please, help us to get our PKD to help, because we are not included, for example. Someone who runs a store has been taken into account, and someone who is a franchisee has no longer been included. They have shops next to each other, only one has franchise, and the other has a regular store. They come in every day, and you say on January 21, you add hotels, congratulations. But I'll tell you more when you closed it, you didn't close it according to PKD, you closed the business, but if you help, according to PKD, that poor businessman would fly, check, write conclusions, see if he couldn't make it and how many didn't. Then why didn't you do the opposite? You should have locked up according to PKD and helped everyone. Or honestly: lock everyone up and help everyone or close up according to PKD and help according to PKD. Difficult? Give it a chance, we'll do it to you right now. [[Applause]] Bravo. It's one day. It's so obvious. The rule of law, honesty is so obvious. How do you close two, one help, and the other tell them he's got a bad PKD? What's that even supposed to mean? But can't you help? Because of course, we have limited financial opportunities, we know all this, it's not all that simple, but on the other hand... What are you doing with it? ...look at the state industry, state companies: where your political nominees are, you can help. Who received the greatest aid during the annual pandemic in Poland? One company. LOT. TVP. 4 billion PLN. Ah... 4 billion PLN. One company. For what? [[♪ The bell ♪]] We all know. Is this the end? Mr. Marshal, just a moment. Is this the end? No. Every trader as a taxable person must pay a new power charge. Why? To fund your energy companies where your nominees are sitting. Of course, you have to help, but is this the time to increase the burden on entrepreneurs, taxpayers? You can help state companies. Banks, state banks - all entrepreneurs now hear it - have been given full liquidity. You gave your banks where the party nominates from the subway. Ask entrepreneurs: Do state banks help entrepreneurs today, ease their credit in this difficult situation? Did any state bank say, "Okay, we're taking a vacation, renegotiating agreements, reducing instalments?" No, the opinion in Poland is this - and I will remind you, the state banks are half the market - that the state banks are the worst, that the negotiations with the state, i.e. your PiS-owskis, banks are just the worst. Our Polish. Yeah, your PiS are the worst. And one last thing, because that's all I have time for. We have to you, actually, not for you, but for those who decide, hundreds of comments. Time's up. Just so you'd like to hear it. You shut down the entire tourism industry, and then Mr. Gowin goes out with Mr. Gut-Mostowy, because they're from the mountains, and they say, "We're going to help entrepreneurs in the mountains." But you didn't close hotels in the mountains, you closed the tourism industry all over Poland: by the sea, by lakes, by roads, by highways, everywhere, in the woods, where the resorts are. And you helped one. Why? Is it so hard to accept an argument? When you understand, in March, in April, you will understand... Time, Marshal. ...that if you lock everyone up, you have to help everyone, not selectively? Now, Mr. Marshal, absolutely final remark. It's supposed to be the last one long ago... Is it hard to listen? It's hard to listen to stupid things. Minister, in October, 24 October, you closed down the business. Applications may be submitted for 5 and 6 days. Here's what I'm gonna say. As for the first lockdown that was, the fact that you were helping after or at the end was understandable, you could understand, be understanding. But you had the whole vacation to prepare support instruments for a possible lockdown, so that if you close, then automatically at the same time there is help, and not that the help is after 3 months. We're not Germans, these companies don't have savings, people are actually saving their own businesses, selling their own houses, from their own private property, because companies can't afford it. Really? Do you know what the Poles expect from you? Elementary honesty, so that you don't shoot so you can help honest ordinary people. And really, Mr. Marshal, one last thought. Don't close everything. Let people work. The proverbial ice rink, if it were in the regime, this man would survive. And instead of giving him a regime, letting him operate in the open air, you give him $30,000. Punishment. Three minutes. The minister had less time. The minister himself resigned, after four minutes he had nothing to say. That's something... Don't bother the ladies. This isn't about you guys talking to us, this is about serious stuff. Be serious for once. Please be serious behind this speaker. We urge you to engage in a real dialogue with entrepreneurs about defrosting the economy, safe during a pandemic, but defrosting the economy, so that bans are not passed blindly, just as they are dealt blindly. Because that way you can't give people as much as they can help themselves if they can function in the sanitary regime. Each industry has developed such rules of operation in the regime. You just don't want to listen to these people. Mr. Marshal, with great regret, because there are no representatives of the government, there is no Prime Minister, there is no Deputy Prime Minister, because we have not been given any serious information and nothing has been told to entrepreneurs forward... Nothing. You said you'd be freezing the 18th. The argument was in the government that we were freezing the 18th. It's almost two o'clock, and do we know if there's gonna be defrosting or there's gonna be defrosting? You didn't give us any information today. And that's why I'm going to have to file a motion with a heavy heart to reject this information from the government. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u436	On behalf of the parliamentary club, Mr Adrian Zandberg will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u437	Minister! High Izbo! I didn't count on much. As it turned out, your boss chickened out and didn't come to this debate, it was pretty clear why. Because there's nothing to show for it. But I was hoping you'd bring anything to the Sejm today. But instead of a realistic plan, how to fix what doesn't work, we have heard a story that is good, and it will be even better. I don't know, Minister, if you believe this, but I know that what you said has nothing to do with what you say in Polish homes today. Before Poland it is a difficult year, people are already very, very tired. In the spring, you said wage cuts, layoffs, no jobs, shoving it into self-employment - it's temporary. But it's been a year, there's another one coming, and these months are gonna be worse than better. Minister, the Poles are not naive, and they really don't want you telling them any more stories, they just want you to be brave and honest about how it is. And since you lack the courage to say it here, I'll do it for you. You're planning, Minister, another year's salary cut. You're planning, Minister, another year when people are being shoved into garbage self-employment. You were bragging about the number of companies growing here. Answer me, Minister, how many of these companies are the people they've been told to start a business now, putting them before a choice: either this or we're gonna fire you. Minister, these are your stats. And in the economy this year, the great ones will continue to eat the small ones. Big business will expand oligopolies, small companies will be suffocating. Coronavirus we will eventually overcome, I am convinced, but what is happening in the economy now will have consequences over the years. And unfortunately, you're looking at a lot of these things just doing nothing. You know, in a couple of months, we all hope so, a little better. And after a year and a half of tightening the belt, these people you let cut their income, they won't throw themselves at the diners, they won't throw themselves at the hotels, they won't throw themselves at the restaurants, because they just can't afford it. So what if we finally open the place if a handful of customers come to them? I feel that you do not think about the perspective, about what demand will be in Poland in a few months. Unfortunately, it's going to get very bitterly revenge. You were talking about the sharpening, Minister. I agree, the sharpening was necessary, and I will not join those who question their meaning here, or those who are trying to call for irresponsible behavior at this point. I don't think that's right. But when the economy closes, Minister, we need to get help right away. You didn't do that. It's about helping with the financing of fixed costs, about money for salaries for these chefs, waiters, bartenders, cleaners, for all those people who lost their livelihoods. Thousands of these people didn't get this help, and it wasn't right. Sometimes to help, you don't even need money, you need some thought and some courage. We put a solution on your table to help these little restaurants to keep them from being exploited by a corporation of brokers, but you chickened out again from the Americans. The effect will be that there will be more bankruptcy. But, of course, you were very generous to the big business, but you didn't make sure that money went into the economy quickly. You know that very well, Minister, because it was your PKO who had to suspend the receipt of deposits from companies, because money instead of people, instead of salaries, went to deposits. And so in practice, unfortunately, this aid scheme often worked. It's different, Minister, and that choice is still there. Instead of pushing costs on the weaker, you can go on the way of the Left. This is a really special time, and the state should now take greater responsibility, because that's what it's for. It's to make people feel safe. The Left clearly states that it is necessary to return to normal salaries, in full height, that the State should guarantee them, as it was for the Danes. People can't wait years to get back to normal, and the condition of their domestic, employee budgets will depend on how quickly we get out of this crisis. We have offered you a concrete solution: a crisis benefit. As for this way that the Left has offered, this is the way that Biden will walk today, as he declares, but we will not follow it. It's a pity, because that basic income would help people and the economy, but you didn't dare. Finally, Minister, you have to talk to people honestly. This epidemic will continue and that's why we really, really need to increase aid for small businesses. And she can't be determined from month to month, from week to week (the bell), because you suddenly realized something. She must be long-term, which is why we've filed a bill that extends it to six months. If you do not take over these fixed costs temporarily, small companies simply fall and the statistics you boasted about today will just look different next year. Let me be clear that what we're proposing, of course, would cost more, but those costs are still being borne today, Minister, but you're the only ones who just pushed them on people. You pushed it, I don't know, on a guy who's working on tape and who's making a few hundred zlotys less than he made a year ago. You pushed them on the girls who ran the coffee shop and right now they're sitting there looking where they're gonna get the money to pay for January. You also pushed them to a clerk whose next year you froze his salary. These people are actually paying the bill. That's ridiculous. I have listened to what you said, Minister, although it was a short speech, and I must say on behalf of Members Together, but also on behalf of Members of the Spring, the Democratic Left Alliance, the Polish Socialist Party, the entire coalition club Left - there was no courage here, no thought, no imagination. Unfortunately, although you said you would be different, in many ways we have again a government that puts the burden of the crisis on working Poles. Kind of like when your predecessors came out here and told stories about the green island. It's not fair, and that's why we won't be able to vote for your information, for accepting it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] It's okay.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u438	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask Mr Jack Tomczak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u439	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The manner in which the Minister prepares for the debate and the information indicates how Polish entrepreneurs and the Polish economy are treated in Poland today. And what does the Polish government's help look like in reality? These hard data, Minister, are such that since the beginning of the year you have introduced 17 new taxes, increases in fees, directly affecting Polish citizens, including Polish entrepreneurs, in a dramatic time of pandemic. The truth is that you have issued to customs and treasury services the dispositions to start a wave of control of Polish entrepreneurs, which is to help you mask the dramatically deteriorating condition of public finances. The truth about your governments is that you strangle Polish entrepreneurs with thoughtless, often completely devoid of logic in conducting business, introducing them often at the last minute, in violation of your previous communications. You're recklessly referring to examples of other countries without even checking the data you're talking about. Poland is the only country in Europe that has completely closed hotels and guesthouses. Many countries, such as Spain, France, Greece, the Netherlands and many others, have not introduced such far-reaching restrictions and have operated in sanitation. Examples of many countries show that the sectors you close can also operate in sanitary regimes, such as the food industry in Italy or the tourism industry in Switzerland. Others can, we can't. I ignore the fact that many of your demolishing Polish economy decisions are simply illegal, as has already been pointed out by recent judgments. In the absence of a state of emergency, the government assumes full liability for the consequences of violations of economic freedoms and violations, restrictions in the administrative modes of that freedom. And the most frightening thing is that the most visible vector of your actions is chaos, the lack of a real plan for entrepreneurs, for the economy. In November, the Prime Minister presented a plan to defreeze the economy, concrete restrictions on a specific number of infections. Today, according to this declaration, we should be in the yellow zone and among others. we can use open hotels, and we are the only country that thus total lockdown dormitories of Polish hotels, tourism and gastronomy. The sad point of your actions is the opinion of Prof. Andrzej Horban, the chief advisor of Prime Minister Morawiecki, who admits it directly: we destroyed the Polish economy. Shield 6.0 is currently a far insufficient tool, in a more propaganda manner than it is supposed to protect jobs in industries whose main part of the workforce has already been deprived of their jobs. Shield 6.0 focuses exclusively on cutting labour costs in companies, excluding fixed costs, passed on to the resources of enterprises. Reliance on PKD codes is of course a solution with many gaps, so it cannot be the only criterion for granting aid. Many entrepreneurs simply will not receive this aid for this reason. The criterion should, of course, be a drop in turnover, not a PKD. But even these small family businesses, e.g. small guesthouses that fit in this PKD, will still not receive help because they do not employ anyone. These holes in the shields are causing 36% at the moment. Small and medium-sized entrepreneurs face the spectrum of bankruptcy. By the end of the epidemic, we should not, first of all, introduce new restrictions, taxes, burdens or, at least, extend fiscal cash registers' obligations. The rules for the payment of sickness benefits by the Social Security Office should be amended. We presented as the Coalition of Poland a number of laws, a number of proposals, unfortunately in the government nobody wants to use these ideas. The whole package of gastronomy solutions: reducing VAT for gastronomy to 5%, exemption from concession fees, which Restaurants can't use anyway, or allowing alcohol to be sold online. Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz presented the plan: a round table with entrepreneurs to develop standards of health regime in which entrepreneurs could operate. We were able to accept them at this session of the Sejm. You didn't do anything about it, but entrepreneurs are just sick of it, and they don't have anything to live for. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These are specific clues. You'd get more if you wanted to, you'd be able to talk if you had the basic ability to conduct a dialogue. The government doesn't know about the real problems of entrepreneurs because it doesn't talk to them. Get down on the ground, it's time to start the economy, it's time to end the lockdown. Polish entrepreneurs want to return to work, not to your charity. Therefore, the Polish Coalition, a spokesperson for Polish entrepreneurs, requests that this information be rejected.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u440	Thank you very much, sir. I would now like the floor of Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, who, together with Mr Krzysztof Bosak, will present the position of the Association of Members of the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u441	First of all, let's check the statistics from the chronicle duty. Poland - 914 deaths per million inhabitants; Sweden - 1078; Belarus - 171, Japan - 38; China - 3; Taiwan - 0.3 . And now: which of these countries was the longest treated with total paralysis of the economy? Yes, Poland. China, which had the slightest chance to prepare itself, which had first to diagnose a new disease in general, understand the threat, yes, have closed, isolated one province for a few weeks, yes, have taken drastic and sometimes debatable moral steps, but have long lived without epidemics. In a 1.5-billion-dollar country, more territorially than the European Union, they have been able to guard this entire territory for months before the epidemic. In Wuhan, where the virus hatched, the New Year was greeted with crowds in the streets, and we are still sitting like rats in a hole, afraid of our own shadow. Taiwan, which had encountered the virus much earlier than we, did not allow the epidemic to develop at all; in Japan it was controlled without major closures; in Sweden only mild recommendations were made; in Belarus nothing was actually done except masks and closing external borders. So, yes, we've chosen the worst strategy, we've suffered huge losses, we've achieved worse results than most of these countries except Sweden, which is slightly ahead of us, but it's also started the epidemic earlier than us, so we're at about the stage at which Sweden was a month ago. Check it out. But that's not the end of bad ideas. If the government has already decided on this suicide tactic of closing everything, it should start by abolishing tax and contribution obligations for those it has prevented from earning. Just because the government doesn't have the money because of it, it's hard, so let the government start saving up from itself, not making other people save up. Is that supposed to give or save? Government action should be, if we decide on such solutions, simple and transparent: where we close, we freeze business, we freeze all liabilities, taxes, loans. We close and isolate only the fires, the red zones, so that the largest part of the country can work normally. According to the criteria used to designate colored zones, most of Poland should already be in the green zone, while we are in full quarantine. Entrepreneurs should know when the zone opens, when it closes, and not wait for the minister's conference and what he's going to launch there tonight, and then change his mind: we're going to close, we're not going to close, there's going to be a vaccine, there's going to be no vaccine, we're going to open the slopes, we're going to close the slopes. For St. Jerome, it's raining or it's not raining, it's raining or not raining at the end of November. That's what the minister says. Mr Nitras has said such wise things here that it should be predictable that it should guide some logic that it is unlawful and that he is now counting on the courts. But how did you vote on the laws that allowed these regulations to be adopted? Everyone except the Confederation voted for it. I checked how Mr Nitras voted on 22 October to tighten up these penalties. What did you vote for? What are you outraged about now? You voted in favour of issuing these illegal regulations. With the first help. With the first help, we voted. So how can we help the most affected industries? First of all, stop immediately. harm. You can't help everyone out of the budget because there's no one left to take. The economy needs to be unlocked immediately, this is the only solution, not the transfer from one empty pocket to the other. I have a few more comments, but I'll put them as a question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u442	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Bosak, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u443	It's weird when you're at 2:00 p.m. 23 we are discussing the item on government information, the Deputy Prime Minister's information on the sectors particularly affected. First of all, why so late, second of all, why isn't the Deputy Prime Minister with us... Where's the Deputy Prime Minister? There's no medical history on your part. It's a waste of prime minister's time. ...third, why are there no accompanying officials who should judge the whole situation, and fourthly, why did the Deputy Minister, who represents the government, say so briefly and actually nothing specific we didn't know what we wouldn't know before? The Prime Minister is at the European Council. When I listened carefully to the speeches, I heard more details and details in the speeches of the opposition Members than in the speech of the Vice-Minister, who was in a lack of time. But did you limit your speaking time, Mr. Marshal? No. So why the lack of time information? We haven't heard of any limit here that would be assigned to the government. And who makes that remark, sir? The Deputy Minister said he had to leave because there's no time. Because it's late, sir. He said it's late and that's why he's done. Minister, I assure you, if you wish to elaborate your speech, time will be given to you. [[Applause]] I believe that this debate should take place at a completely different time, and this is my complaint to the Sejm Bureau, which has an impact on the agenda. All parties other than the Confederation shall have their representatives in the Bureau of the Sejm. On the other hand, if we are forced to discuss such an important matter at an hour. 23, let's do it exhaustively. Mr. Marshal... Lockdown, the closure of selected sectors of the economy, is an unfair practice based on magical thinking. Magic thinking shares the PiS, shares the Left, shares a large part of the Civic Coalition, PSL. The Confederation doesn't share it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Marshal, allow me to extend my speech a little longer. This magical thinking is based on the assumption that through this series of victims of society, selected in some more or less anti-scientific way, we are able to control the course of a virus epidemic that no one has recently known. Of course, as Dobromir Sosnierz rightly pointed out to me, experience has fabricated these hypotheses. We are unable to control the spread of Coronavirus in society. There was exactly what the Confederacy was about as the only brave and truthful force in society... I'm glad you're not saying there isn't. ...confirmed from the beginning: the virus in society will disperse, who is to be infected, it will become contagious, while the economic losses aimed at innocent people who had the misfortune to work in the industries that you have decided to reduce are not compensated. You didn't put in a state of emergency so you wouldn't pay compensation, and this applies to a whole range of industries. I'll just remind you and quote the data. The Polish Council of Trade Centres estimated the losses of shopping centers due to: spring lockdown - at 17 billion, November lockdown - at 8 billion, January lockdown - at 4 billion, and this is only one of many industries. According to data and research by GfK for gastronomy alone, 76 thousand were involved. entities. As of the 2018 data, the Commission concluded that the measures - and we have moved on - we have over 2700 hotels in Poland. According to Deloitte's 2018 data, we have more than 2,700 fitness clubs in Poland. You shut it all down, leaving the people who work in these industries, without compensation, without wages. In addition, you need to add entertainment, artistic, event, training. A number of companies that work in these industries have already gone bankrupt, they've already closed down. At the moment, you're changing the classification of the PKD on which you provide assistance, and it's mustard after dinner. How can one assume that someone will be paralyzed for many, many months? He's gonna pay for it and wait for it, you don't know what. This is a completely absurd assumption which, of course, could not have worked out and failed. But there is good news: you can get out of this situation in a very simple way: simply remove these restrictions, and people themselves will rebuild their jobs as a result of their own initiative, their diligence and their willingness to rebuild their income. Just let it happen, give up those shields of yours, that's enough. You put in a great effort -- a great effort -- but it doesn't work, it's done too late, it's not done on time. Just let it go, let people get back to work. These sectors that you have closed are a small fraction of the economy as a whole, of society as a whole. You can't save anybody's life like that. What do you mean, no? Of course we will. It is better for you to engage in improving the health situation, and it has been disorganized there too. That's where you can do something good, not here.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u444	Thank you very much, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As the time has been chosen to discuss these important topics in my opinion, it is not by chance to limit the possibility of informing the public about the course of the debate, and therefore I do not limit the speaking time to anyone whether it is a representative of the government party, the governing party or opposition parties. Although 45 people are saved to ask questions, I set the time to ask questions for one minute. On the other hand, if one of your fellow Members extends the speaking time, I will not restrict it. [[Applause]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u445	My previous speaker addressed the words to the Left or the Civic Coalition. Mr President, this Confederation differs from us in the fight against the pandemic - I know it is not easy for you to wear a mask - that we in the 21st century know that the globe is round and in your case it is still flat. That's the difference between us - they know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u446	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Margaret Janyska a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u447	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a request to the Minister to tell Prime Minister Gowin that the value and reliability of the information raises a lot of doubts, because according to the title it is intended to address the situation of the most vulnerable industries. Let me stress once again: at risk of losing revenue. Meanwhile, in fact, loss of revenue is a fact. Closed industries and related companies that cooperate with them have no longer achieved revenue for many months, some - almost a year, many industries - since the first lockdown, including trade fair or exhibition. I have a question: Do you really not hear the voices of entrepreneurs in this regard? If you don't, I'll say a few more, like today. The owner of the dry cleaners. He hires 10 people. He hoped that in January hotels and restaurants would open. I'm afraid so. On the 1st of February, four people are fired, others are either on L4, either on care or on vacation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's been a mistake, isn't there? Another vote: I'll fire three people at the beginning of February. Retail trade in the shopping gallery PKD 47. 77.Z. I don't deserve anything from the shield. Stores are closed. Three months of lockdown. Employee leave is not suspended, in 2020 workers had 4 months of paid leave due to forced leave. And we greet - small entrepreneurs. We didn't even make money on rent, on premises, and on ZUS, which is why we have time to tweet. Another voice: Billions of help, but for whom? Or not just for your own? And so on. father from Torun - 900 thousand and entrepreneurs - 5 thousand each. From the beginning of the pandemic. Disgraceful. And at the end of the speech - I would like to say this - the Minister of Finance, who at this difficult time is addressing Poles with such good advice: let's get the money out of the mattress and start spending. First of all, it is not known whether such a statement is irony or impudence. And second of all, Minister, where would you spend that money, even if someone had it under their mattress and wanted to pull it out? I am sorry, Mrs President, but I am very sorry to see your clubmates disturb you by asking a question. In shopping malls or at other service points that are closed? I would like to reiterate, ladies and gentlemen, in this connection, the call of the Enterprise Council, also today, which is addressed to Prime Minister Gowin: once again we would like to stress strongly that financial support for business should be closely linked to opening up the economy and enabling companies to operate. Entrepreneurs who are about to go bankrupt due to lockdown will not even help the best-designed support instruments. Minister, I think you should take this to heart. And one last remark. You talked about the overall good situation in the country and the fact that companies are not yet failing and may be subject to restructuring. In the country we have about 2,800 thousand. companies that operate as natural persons. Answer yourself whether they will be, how many of them will take on the restructuring procedure. They'll just be gone after 1 month, 2 or 3 months. They won't be there. They're not gonna work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u448	Thank you very much, Member. I would now ask Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska to ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u449	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Messengers! I understand you guys are fine because you're getting paid. You too. But if it's so great, so perfect, why are today's distraught entrepreneurs willing to be punished, to court proceedings, to pursue their rights in courts and open their businesses because they say they're standing against a wall and they're out of power? [[Applause]] If it's so perfect, why are there first cases of suicide among entrepreneurs? Ladies and gentlemen! The truth is that wherever you can maintain a social distance, wherever you can implement a sanitary regime, the economy should work, because for this inefficient help we will - even though a lot of entrepreneurs will fall - pay for many generations. [[Applause]] The truth is, the government hasn't prepared aid for entrepreneurs in time. Two months ago, here in the Sejm, we agreed that entrepreneurs from closed industries would be exempt from the ZUS. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you know what this is, Minister? This is a call for payment of late contributions for November for the lady running the restaurant, because until today - even though she applied for the deferral of ZUS-oski's contributions for her staff for November, although she subsequently applied for the remission of outstanding contributions, which she requested, she received a call for payment in mid-January - the entrepreneurs did not get the decision to cancel the contributions for November. For a few days now, you've been saying that you can apply for funds from a 2.0 shield. But this shield does not take into account the fact that in such a place as the Vistula or the Rewal, in which 80% of people live from tourism, the problem with generating income today has not only a hotel or restaurant, but also a grocery store or any other commercial point, because it is true that after PKD business we will not save. It is easy to say that entrepreneurs are going to change, because such a great good-hearted advice often falls out of your mouth, but it is much harder to point out today the meaningful occupation of just such a place, which lives from tourism, as well as much harder to make such a decision, having several, several or sometimes several hundred dependants. You know what entrepreneurs need today? Either that, so they can act, or real help from you. She's late anyway and many won't save anymore, but this is really the last whistle for all those who haven't been able to generate revenue for months. You know what else they need? It's a specific piece of information. Entrepreneurs today don't really know whether to continue debting themselves, their families, because they don't know if they can act in a few days, a few weeks or a few months, or just fire workers and shut down businesses that were often passed down from generation to generation. Also, your good advice to those who have recently started their business, that you should not have started, you can put it under the rug. Remember that some investments are carried out for years, and therefore also aid to people who have just started doing business this year should also be made available, and there is no investment. Help is late, help is missed. And in fact, it reminds me of your advice that hotels have a tourist voucher, but it's a shame that it's only today. You understood, and these hotels, and the various resorts you finally put in to help, because the tourist voucher is Maybe he can help them next year when many of them are long gone on the market. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u450	Thank you very much. We must decide, ladies and gentlemen, whether we are speaking without restrictions, but then we must be consistent, Mr President. You don't have to come and ask me to shorten my speech because it's counterproductive. I told you, if it doesn't... It doesn't make any sense. Mr. Marshal, it's up to two minutes for everyone to have up to two minutes. Mr. Marshal, two minutes. I'm sorry I developed so much. This is a real debate, Mr. Marshal. Thank you. We are now looking forward to joining Mrs Wanda Nowicka. The Member is here. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u451	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Minister, who isn't here! Entrepreneurs would very much like to know from the Minister why the government selectively identified the activities eligible for the industrial shield. Why has one retail activity been included and another not, even though consumption has decreased throughout the sector? What is the key to making decisions? Moreover, the Polish Economic Institute calculates that the crisis caused by the pandemic threatens directly over 4 million Polish workers. It is estimated that the industry shield provides partial support only for 1/10 of these people, i.e. for approx. 400,000. workers and workers. What about the others? How does the government plan to secure the decent lives of these people at the time of the closure of their companies? Please answer these questions in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u452	Thank you very much, Member. I now ask you to ask Mr Mark Rutka a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u453	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki on the draft of the most important document defining the directions of development and the size of EU support for the coming years, i.e. the partnership agreement, said: The strength of the investment impact will be really powerful. True, the force of this impact is so powerful that it wiped out 736 million euros from the Regional Operational Programme of the Pomeranian Voivodeship. That is exactly how less development support will be given to the Pomeranian Voivodeship. At the end of last year, from the local investment fund round 0 PLN the PiS government granted to residents and residents of Gdańsk, Gdynia, Sopot and Słupska. Now it is time for another installment of political revenge for the region where true solidarity was born. Of course, we did not know the criteria for allocating these funds, this aid. It seems, however, that there was one [[♪ The bell ♪]] The only criterion - political sympathy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u454	The question will now be asked by Mr Robert Obaz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u455	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We're dealing with a situation where ten months ago we closed down 30% of this country because people couldn't get into the woods to breathe healthy, relax. Today we closed ok. 30% the economy. 30% people who live in the tourism, restaurant and all services provided to them are at risk. People don't have a lot of money to pay for their payments. All those who built, for example. ski lifts, not so long ago they renovated them, took loans for it, today they have about 60,000. monthly instalments, e.g. leasing. When there was the first shield, you introduced bank guarantees for six months. Today these guarantees are no longer available. What's the matter with you? [[♪ The bell ♪]] They don't take credit today because they have a shield. They don't take credit, Madame, because they've already taken credit, and they have to pay it back. Member, maybe you're not paying off. You really do have income from a dozen companies in the Treasury, you probably get that income. [[Applause]] But they're family. But all of them... I invite you to Karpacz, to Szklarska, to Świeradow, the Minister too. Family on their own. Mr. Gowin isn't here because I'm happy to welcome him, too. Please stand and tell these people that you have supported them all. Please, come in. After all, it is now possible, you can get in and in 5 hours we will take you to Jelenia Góra, to Karpacz, you will come to me. I'll drive you home. You'll face those people you've locked up today. It's not that these people don't have... We're locked up for fun, aren't we? You say they don't fire employees. They don't fire employees because they're hoping that as soon as the lockdown is over, they're gonna have to work somebody. They're the only ones who don't have electricity today, rents, all fixed fees. The state gave an additional grant to release ZUS. And those who didn't care about any slippages along the way and are behind in the U.S.S.A. are no longer covered by this help. These companies are going to go bankrupt today. Is this the government's policy? To support them, once again, I invite you to Szklarska, Świeradowa, Karpacz. Get in front of these people and tell them how good it is. Thank you. [[Applause]] Tell him you're coming.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u456	The question will now be asked by Mrs Beata Maciejewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u457	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are now in a series of questions, but we do not really need to ask any questions anymore, because the answer to the question of how the Polish government and the parliamentary majority treat entrepreneurs from the sectors at risk is here in this room, in this empty room, where there are three people in the parliamentary benches and where there is one person in the government benches, no one unknown undersecretary of state Niebżak, who limited his speech to less than 5 minutes and basically did not say anything. [[Applause]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is the answer of our government and our right-wing majority to the question of where he has entrepreneurs today. I'm not gonna say where, because we all know. But these entrepreneurs come here. They were here yesterday, and most of them, basically all the opposition parties stood with them at a press conference. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There were Members from each party except the ruling parties. And entrepreneurs - if you'll allow me, Mr. Marshal, it's still a while - and they were entrepreneurs in the fitness, catering, event, market, said that the aid that is being provided was 18.77%. companies. 81% Not applicable. They asked for a meeting, they asked to be heard. Today, we have messengers in this room who, when we talk about it, laugh by giving each other an iPad. I'd like to know -- I'm asking a question in space, because I don't really have anyone to ask it -- how much more of these people are gonna hold out. How much longer can they, their families and their businesses last? Is there a scenario and are there special studies and reports that talk about how - in a positive scenario or in a negative scenario - it will take a long time? How many more people who don't have a parking lot, who have already been hired for work contracts and a job can survive without a job? How much? Do you have this kind of research? Do you have such reports? Finally, I would like to say that when Adrian Zandberg, representing the Left, said that we would not be able to vote in favour of this information, the ladies of the benches said, "That's okay. This is the answer to the question of how entrepreneurs are treated. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] No. How to treat the opposition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u458	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Krutul will now ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u459	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I am a representative of the Podlaskie Voivodship. We have in our voivodship a lot of shipping companies, which have huge leasing costs or coach leasing costs - and it is our pride in Europe that we have taken over, we take over the market throughout the European Union. Entrepreneurs face colossal costs related to their workers from Belarus, Ukraine. After the pandemic occurred in those countries that are neighbouring us, they returned to their countries. The problem is to keep them alive. Let's hope this pandemic goes away soon. Our economy, our companies in the Podlaskie Voivodship can't do it without these employees. As far as shipping and tourism companies are concerned, [[♪ The bell ♪]] the employment of foreigners in these sectors is up to 60%. These entrepreneurs, of course, received support from the shields introduced by the Law and Justice Government, but leases are fixed costs, and for this they did not receive reimbursement. A request here from entrepreneurs I represent, with whom I meet in my parliamentary office in Białystok, in Suwałki or in Łomża, to take these industries and these costs into account, because if you do not help them, these companies will simply fall. These are family businesses, 10-, 20-, 30-year-old, run by families, and it's a big request that you lean over them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u460	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Przemysław Koperski. Marshal, why is the Left going all the time and not the change? I mean, the first one on the left, right? [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u461	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Vistula, Ustroń, Brenna, Szczyrk, Korbielów, Istebna or Zwardoń are villages where up to 80% of the population lives from tourist traffic. Thousands of inhabitants of Beskid Śląski, Żywiecki, Małego run guesthouses, hotels or rental of guest rooms. On the basis of local companies, there are schools, rental shops and ski slopes, and around them there are restaurants, bakeries, confectionery, cafes or laundry. Minister! One small ski station generates about 100 jobs in the winter season. E.g. Vistula Skipass is already 1 000. jobs during the winter season. Today by your actions at least 10,000. families in Beskids have no income, and they have to bear fixed costs every month. These are technical reviews, electricity charges, power charges, equipment, leases, loan instalments, TV subscription (Dawn) or alcohol licence and many, many others. Minister! Have you ever been to the mountains in winter? Do you know how much it costs to snow a little ski slope? $1,000. zł. And how much snow does it take to get enough for a long May weekend? Because it's the only thing that gives us a chance to stay on the market. Hundreds of hours. These are the costs. That must be paid, although the proceeds to the cash register are equal to zero at the moment. Minister and Prime Minister! 'Cause you're probably watching the transmission in your papa's front of the TV. Why doesn't the government want to give support to all the companies that have suffered during the pandemic? Why do some companies save and others commit bankruptcy? The question I would very much ask for is also a written reply: Is it true that Polish Hotel Holding will take over private hotels and private ski slopes? What this has to do with the lack of real support for the tourism sector, among others. In the Beskids? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u462	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Rafał Adamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u463	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Vice Minister! I would very much ask, I will mark at the beginning, for a written reply, because out of respect for Poles and Poles in the benches you should sit Deputy Prime Minister Gowin, who is an employee of all Poles and Poles. My question is who decided that casinos remained open for so long when bars, restaurants, gyms and hotels were closed. What conditions have decided that casinos were open and that other industries were closed? And one more question - I will also ask for a written reply - has anyone lobbied in the Ministry on this matter? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u464	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u465	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Why did the government leave out social enterprises run by foundations and associations? They are among them, for example. social cooperatives employing people with disabilities. Maybe these people aren't very many, but write down and answer this question in writing. So will the government reflect, correct this mistake and help these people Or not? We know that the government is working on a new industrial policy. Does this mean that Morawiecki's failed plan will no longer be implemented? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u466	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Katarzyna Kotula.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u467	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will address Members again, the Deputy Prime Minister does not see today's relationship with the Sejm because he is visiting Berlin. Therefore, as the Minister said... What visit? At the European Council. He's working. I didn't ask you to comment, thank you very much. As the Minister said, the time is late, so I would like to ask only a few short questions. I want to know... Not on a field trip, he's working. ...with which organizations and companies government proposals were consulted. Have these proposals been consulted with trade unions? Did representatives of all sectors, but also all types of companies, take part in this consultation? I would also like to ask if small businesses and individuals engaged in one-man business were allowed to speak. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask for a list of all stakeholders participating in the consultation because the word consultation changes you by all cases. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u468	The question will be asked by Monika Pawłowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u469	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The level of investment in recent years has fallen below 20% to the level from the 1990s. Have lessons been learned from the wrong investment policy of the government? Do you have a contingency plan for the failure of your investment policy? Let's take the government's local investment program, which can quietly be called a program for your own. And it's the only plan you really have. The Batory Foundation published a report indicating that in the municipalities where PiS is governed, the average subsidy per capita is PLN 250. Where the opposition rules - unfortunately 10 times less. Lech Szbek Voivodeship rules in Lublin. Recently, he sent a letter to the Prime Minister to be called off immediately because such injustices occur. Not just in the health system, [[♪ The bell ♪]] but in the financing of local governments, e.g. Italy and Biłgoraj, these cities are left alone because PiS doesn't rule there. [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, just a moment. Minister, why doesn't the government respect municipalities and districts so much? Why does he have double standards? Once again, I ask you Members: you do not respect the person who asks the question. Because they're not your option? Remember, you punish all the residents, even your constituents, who are part of the community. I hope they don't forget this. You in government from the perspective of ministry buildings, do not know what county Poland looks like. People save each other, organize actions to support local restaurants or pay money to entrepreneurs. In Poland of the 21st century, people have nothing to live for. The mockery is how you treat Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u470	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Marek Owl.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u471	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, everyone in this room should take the side of entrepreneurs who have been deceived and abused by the policy of the PiS government. They're the victims of your actions. Ha! Ha! Ha! The fact that Mr Morawiecki is not with us today has no excuse. There's no more important thing... He is at the European Council. ...like a struggle to keep what is most important to many, what is the work of all life. You probably don't know this, but not everyone in Poland has been one of the richest families for generations. Today, many people owe their hard work to what they have. I am from Małopolska, I know perfectly well how much energy it takes, what huge work everyone has done to be able to benefit from the economic development that was our share. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You guys are saying today that data shows you're good. Perhaps your well-being is good, because economic data clearly show that since 1992 you are the first government that has led to a deep recession in Poland. This is your fault and your responsibility. Yes, sir. And now a few examples. How should the inhabitants of Małopolska, Podhale, the Sądecczyn, who were at a meeting with Prime Minister Gowin and Minister Gut-Mostow at the turn of November and December, when ministers told them: snow, invest in these slopes, keep the sanitary regime, will you be able to use the slopes? And what did it turn out to be? The slopes are closed. Because of the epidemic? No. In November, Prime Minister Morawiecki showed us when the national quarantine would be put in place when the sharpenings would be reduced. Remember that slide? There was no viral mutation. For weeks... [[Game in the O.R.]] Małopolska is a green zone according to your data. If you say there was no coronavirus mutation, you shouldn't have sent the biggest LOT planes to London to bring him back. [[Applause]] Yes. Because it's just your fault and your responsibility. How are people supposed to feel if they have rooms to rent and they can't make it available to anyone and they have to bear all the costs? How are ski instructors supposed to feel about not training me because the slopes are closed? We know how they feel. Of course, the PiS know the solution to this situation. You have such a liar, this is the political invention of Prime Minister Gowin: you can sleep in an infirmary in five people, because your aunt doesn't rent. You can ride the slopes without a license, because you're a PiS-ocean and you say, "No punishment will happen to us, because we will even ensure impunity by law." You could say that along the fence you would walk in the boots up the slope to ski down. Your politics just can't stand the time of rehearsal. Liars. You're liars, cheaters. You have led to the tragedy of many hundreds of thousands of Poles and Poles and, of course, you are the only government in which most Poles and Poles have died since World War II, 480 thousand. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u472	Minister, did you have something to say? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Apologize for Emilevich. Minister, you've had unlimited time on the speaker, you've limited that time yourself. No, it wasn't. It was time. Don't turn the cat's tail at this point. Would the Minister like to speak at this moment? No. Well, if the Minister doesn't want to speak at this point, I'm asking you not to be emotional and that the Minister doesn't interfere with the discussion. [[Applause]] I'm not interrupting the discussion. Listen to what the marshal has to say. Don't lecture Members, Minister, because you're here to give polite answers, not to lecture. [[Applause]] Yes, sir. Mr. Marshal, please react as we are insulted. You're here for us, not us for you. Don't threaten the marshal with your finger. Don't threaten me, either. Don't argue. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u473	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies too, if I could just have a moment of focus. I wanted to talk to Prime Minister Morawiecki here or Prime Minister Gowin, because they are the cause of what is happening in this country. This isn't a minister we don't even know... This is Poland. This isn't the country. ...in this country. For you, this is the country that you now share for yourselves, for your people as a sonecura. Poland is for those entrepreneurs who now have nothing to put in the pot. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I'm asking you to give me your line. Thank you very much. The Minister doesn't even have a clue, he's sitting in his office telling nonsense about his 3% fall, 4% It got up and suddenly 190 grand. The companies got more done. Ha, ha, ha! He says exactly what your principal said: I make $50,000, and he makes $4,000, so on average we make $27,000. That's your truth. That's your truth. [[Applause]] I have this question: Why do you not speak with representatives of the Sea Coalition, i.e. with the initiative of local authorities from the north of Poland, from above the sea, who have been asking for a meeting with Prime Minister Gowin for a month? Because they want to save their communities because they want to save their residents because they want to save their entrepreneurs. You don't talk to them at all. You want to make this Poland for the Polish Kaczyński and Rydzyk prayer, and from our north you will make some - I don't know - an enclave that Brudziński will rule, and we will live on some reservation, because there will be no work there. The opposite of how you guys did it. Because there won't be any work there. We expect equal treatment, the same treatment as you treat mountain communities. We expect the same aid that the mountain communities have received. We only have the job we have there, tourism. There's no other industry, there's just tourism. To the coastal municipalities and to the municipalities in Warmia-Mazurskie voivodeship, this aid should come and not come. And now for the details of your help. You don't even know who the entrepreneur is and who the employer is. Of course we don't. Your help only goes to your employer. So, yeah, you're gonna add 50%. to ZUS, and I ask where this employer is going to give the other 50% If you've shut him down, you've shut him down. You're gonna make 25% of your salary. I'm asking where the employer gets 70%. salary, since you've shut him down. You're gonna give him a loan of $5,000. Where's he gonna give it back if you shut him down? They're dead. Dead. It's supposed to be a PFR subsidy, and you didn't make it a dead one. And that's what you're gonna do. She's dead. The subsidy from PFR is to be 100% deadly And not, as you said, 25%. And the fact is, some entrepreneurs will have to pay back up to 50%. Listen to the end, it's like this. We have to do this: open this whole business at last, because Poland and we can't stand it, entrepreneurs can't stand it. And in detail, we need to take care of the Poles. If they're shut down, they need 100%. compensate for the losses. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Count it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u474	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Katarzyna Lubnauer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u475	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In fact, everything about what happened at the moment, said government expert Mr Horban: we have destroyed the economy. That's what he said, and it actually gives away everything that happened. And this is manipulation. PKD - something to determine who lives and who dies. Let's see. It's out of context. The same two clothing stores: one on a franchise basis, the other not. One has the right PKD and a chance to survive, the other - unfortunately, sorry, you didn't get it. Bakery. Everyone eats bread, so why aren't they locked up, need help? Unless someone has a bakery in Zakopane and its main recipient so far there have been tiny restaurants and tiny hotels that took bread from him. Someone who delivers fresh, washed linen to small hotels or restaurants. [[♪ The bell ♪]] All these people in theory don't seem to have a problem. For Mr. Horban, the economy has no face, but this is Mrs. Anna's face, Mr. Peter's face, Mr. Richard's face - they all lost. They all don't know if the achievements of many generations will be theirs. Those people who built the hotels now find out that maybe the hotel holding company will take over. You couldn't even relieve Poles of the obvious. PPK - it would seem that it is obvious that it should be suspended. I'm not talking about the fact that this program ended in complete failure, because 77% The Poles did not decide to enter it. It's a matter of fiscal cash. At the worst moment, you force people to exchange cash. The situation with people who are licensed for alcohol - they have no business, no business, and still have to pay. You can't help entrepreneurs because you don't understand them, and that's why Horban told the truth: you trashed the economy. And then people won't get up. Don't manipulate it, don't pull it out of context.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u476	The question will be asked by Mr Aleksander Mishalski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u477	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Let us begin at all by saying that the title of this point is scandalous: industries at risk of losing revenue. Minister, some of these industries haven't generated any revenue in a year. They're not in danger, they just don't work anymore. These are hundreds of companies that are either opening up or they're going to open or they're going to open up, and they just don't have any revenue. And your help and your shield is holes and not enough. Examples of yesterday's reports from Krakow. Mr. Michał runs a bar on the market, Mrs. Ania runs kram in the Cloth Halls, Mrs. Kasia - a dance school and Mr. Tomek, who works in the event industry. All these companies are closed and none of them have received any gold from your shields. Why? E.g. Because your shields depend on the PKD, not on the drop in turnover. And for this purpose, e.g. all tourism suppliers are excluded. What about the beauty business? There's no wedding, part of the beauty business doesn't work the same way. PFR 1.0 shield. Entrepreneurs filed a complaint in May, June - so far they have no answers. PFR 2.0 shield. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why did you exclude one-man businesses from this shield, companies that only co-owners work in? Why did you rule out the new companies that started last year or the ones that changed? The shield 6.0 was supposed to be exempt from the ZUS and parking - November and later months. So what? There's nothing. This is really embarrassing. Why don't you just take our bill that Mirka Nykiel was running. Everything's written down there and done. This is about the comprehensive support of all sectors at risk. Also, do you realize that you've closed the gastronomy overnight? You keep her locked up for three months, and they've had their bets loaded. Will somebody give them back the money for the shit that got through? Did you know that commercial banks don't give any credit because they refuse all the affected industries on the basis of PCD? Did you know that insurance companies increase their contributions to tourist companies? Do you know - I'm almost done - what the help in Austria looked like in December? 70% aid for costs, 80% income compensation, 1000 euros of contribution to the shareholder and a loan of 100,000. Euros in stock. And at the end of the day, health standards. So you guys are gonna start working and consulting sanitary standards right now? What were you doing in the spring? After all, they have all been developed by the industries long ago. So that health standards need to be introduced as soon as possible, and businesses just let them earn money. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u478	The question will be asked by Mr Piotr Boris.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u479	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In fact, half empty Izbo! Today we are watched by 4 million entrepreneurs who are doomed to live under the rigour of closure of businesses, the achievements of their entire lives, the people who are fighting for survival, have no means to do so, because without their fault, you have closed down the business. Tell me, where is Prime Minister Morawiecki in this discussion? Where's Prime Minister Gowin? Where are the Members and Members of the PIS? [[Applause]] Have the courage to look directly into the eyes of all those to whom you close up your businesses and promise to help cover the costs of closing companies, companies. It is about employees and entrepreneurs in cities such as Szklarska Poręba, Karpacz, Wisła, Zakopane. 70% The inhabitants of these cities, the towns are unemployed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Suicides happen. More and more people are thinking about how to go bankrupt and not draw the achievements of their whole lives and their own families. If you wanted to be honest, you would use, for example. Czech experience. Czechs one-to-one cover all fixed costs including the leases of facilities for the catering industry. Why are we doing this? We don't have one? You're acting chaotic. In October, you closed Polish hotels, Polish gastronomy. Our law guaranteed to cover all fixed costs from October to March. You haven't even touched that bill. We wanted to make it clear today... What is the logic of closing business when we observe grocery stores, construction shops, churches full of people? Hotels, gastronomy, the fitness industry can't wait to operate in the sanitary regime. Over a few months of the sanitary regime, the district of Jelenio Góra - today Krkonoše - visited more than a million tourists. We had four infections. It was in everyone's interest to guard the sanitary sharpeners. Open up some of these businesses or people won't make it through the next few months. Have the courage to come to the Seym and hardworking debate of Polish entrepreneurs to tell them that you will not help them and you are not willing to open up businesses in the sanitary regime that will allow them to work and survive until the next season. Have courage. You don't have the courage. Room's empty. Let the Polish entrepreneurs see it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u480	The question will be asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u481	Minister! Do you have any backup? Room's empty. You can't see anyone. I hope it's not exactly like that. Minister, you'll remember this a long time. You'll never make that mistake again. It is necessary to use this House's time for concrete reasons, to say what the perspective is for people who, for lack of time, have to count on you. I'd like to give you a chance. I am about to give you a document that tells you that NGOs that are engaged in economic activities have not been supported. They haven't gotten backup so far. This support is not provided in the PFR 2.0 shield either. . Why? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, I trust that you will do something about this document, that this support will appear. I would like to point out that Minister Gut-Mostowy, responsible for tourism, did not have time for me in this matter. I understand you have to be a highlander to get an audience, and a ceper like me isn't lucky. Minister, I'm giving you the document. You have a condition in it, and you have the circumstances. Make good use of it, 'cause then you're gonna walk out of this room with your face. attach a copy to the protocol. I hope the marshal will accept it. I give you this hopeful, because NGOs are worthy of it. This is an important part of our civil society. Business activities are being undertaken, projects are being carried out, and their revenues from business activities and revenues from projects which are of course made non-profit.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u482	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Konrad Frysztak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u483	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At first, I'm gonna talk to you in human terms. I just feel sorry for you. You're on your own. That's not gonna happen on TV. You're the only one here. This is nothing personal, but you are the third suit of the Ministry to be responsible for helping Poles. In four minutes, you presented a vision of a country that works perfectly in a time of pandemic. Entrepreneurs are developing, they're grateful to the government for their support. A few weeks ago, your government colleague, the Undersecretary at the Ministry of Finance, said that Poles have more money, because in times of epidemics due to closed interests they spend less. He said if the slope wasn't working, he might change. Except the sled hill can't open either. You live in a different, unrealized world. In this room there is no Member of PiS, it is important for Radoms, there is no Andrzej Sztuwniak, Anna April, Marek Suski. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There is no Agnieszka Górska, there is no Mr Fark and Mr Fogel. Where are they today? They're asleep. You, Minister, did not come here to face us, with the Members of the opposition. You came to tell Poles how they could save their businesses. You said there were a lot of restructuring processes going on. I agree with you. Do you know why? Because people want to save their businesses with their personal possessions. And that's why they catch not liquidation, but restructuring. Only if you do not help Polish entrepreneurs, this liquidation will come. If it's so great, I have a question: what do you say to the Ewent industry in Radom's Archer Zone, which had to shut down all the clubs because you helped them? What do you say to the restaurateurs on the street? Żeromski, who's selling out their equipment today so he can pay off his debts because the bailiff is about to knock on their door? What do you say to those who have wedding rooms in the area of Pawns, Szydłowiec or Kozienice, who are left with no means to live? Minister! I have a favor to ask of you. Let's go to Radom tomorrow. Look at the real situation in the country. I think then you can hear one question, one from which they laughed here in the parliamentary benches a few years ago, your party colleagues, when asked the paprika producer from Radom how to live?. Only now it won't be so easy to answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u484	The question will be asked by Małgorzata Chmiel.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u485	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I appeal to Prime Minister Morawiecki, Prime Minister Gowin. It is a pity that none of them are here today, because the discussion is very important for most Polish families. And Prime Minister Gowin, who is responsible in the government for the activities of entrepreneurs, is not here. The Prime Minister Morawiecki isn't here either. Disregarding is unbelievable. I appeal to Prime Minister Gowin and Prime Minister Morawiecki on behalf of the mobs, mayors, presidents of the Pomerania communes for help in such a difficult, dramatic situation. We know that in Podhale the determined highlanders decided to open up their activities because (the bell) angry, on the edge of endurance they already called the government plan a farce. As a result, Prime Minister Gowin has decided to pay more money on Podhale and says that if someone opens up against his directives, he is threatening to cut the funds. Ladies and gentlemen! These entrepreneurs are working on the money that the Prime Minister is giving away with such a light hand, and he says he's gonna give it to someone or he's not gonna give it to anyone. And support should be given to all those who lost their income, not just those on the list of Polish Classification of Activities. Because, as we have said before, the Polish Classification of Activities does not cover everyone who should be helped. Does not include e.g. employers of single-person business activities. Restaurants, yes, will get help, but what about the suppliers to these restaurants? What about laundry facilities that are also necessary for running hotels? What about those who opened their businesses in 2020? The government party says that other countries are also closed, but in other countries it is incredibly different, more help, quick and effective. Ladies and gentlemen! In Pomerania the situation is so tragic that even in Sopot - where it is the possibility of being retrained at least temporarily - the income has decreased so much, drastically in relation to the previous year, that local government officials are wondering how, although temporarily, they could help. But locals, as you well know... Self-governments have cut funds also by the government side, by lack of support. Once again, I ask you to think about it and I call for talks with the coastal authorities of the Pomerania municipalities to invite them, talk and give really big support, because there are great tragedies that the government is completely deaf to. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u486	It seems that Mr Jakub Rutnicki is not here. So please take the floor to ask Mr Mirosław Suchon's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u487	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, we all see an empty room, and there are no members of the PiS, although this is one of the most important, if not the most important topic today. These actions of the government are absolutely incomprehensible. On the one hand, the PiS closes the economy, introduces restrictions, penalties for non-compliance with these restrictions, but it would probably be acceptable if at the same time these companies could count on the costs that would enable them to survive or supplement the resources after the drop in revenue. But it didn't happen because the PiS did the usual. You have announced this support propagandically, but the PiS government introduced the Census in the form of PKD, excluding many small Polish, medium-sized, family companies. And it's just an absolute scandal. This led the PiS government to extremes. Mr PiS Minister said that the economy is relatively well. I invite you to Bielsko-Biała, Beskidy, Silesia Cieszyński, Żywiecczyzna, Pszczyna. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Gastronomy, tourism, services and many other industries. Minister! People are bleeding, they're bleeding out, they're on the brink of strength, they're selling their assets. They borrow to keep companies: slopes, restaurants, accommodations, rentals, laundry facilities, shops and employees. 'Cause if there's no tourists, it's not just the quarters that die, it's all around. Minister! The government needs to take a step forward. You need to sit down with the entrepreneurs again and agree on the terms on which the companies will open. In Szczyrk, Wisła, Ustroń, Brenna, Istebna, in Bielsko-Biała or Cieszynie entrepreneurs are ready to use sanitary sharpenings, but the PiS government must stop pretending to be Greek. It is also necessary to move away from PKD to refer to the decline in revenue, or to close according to PKD - this is the second exit. It's a minimum plan. We need to defrost the economy before it's too late. And you must, Minister, use our projects. For example, the reduction of cork for gastronomy with compensation for local authorities - a project that lies in the parliament in the freezer. This can be used to improve the economy. You don't do that. Finally, Minister: you are clearly in a good mood, almost melted over the great state of the economy, so I invite you again to Beskidy, invite you to the Vistula, Szczyrk, to Bielsk, Silesia Cieszyński, to Żywiecczyn, Pszczyna. Let the Government of Law and Justice see what the exhausted and determined people look like. Maybe then you can stop pretending to be Greek because people can't handle it. And if the dam lets go, Minister, you'll just be wiped out. Or maybe the dam has already let go, but we just have to wait a while for the results. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u488	The question will be asked by Dariusz Joński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u489	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a joke, not a debate, just for a good cause. This is one big joke - I want it to sound like two reasons. This may be the most important debate in this meeting, apart from the election of the Ombudsman, without the participation of the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister and without any specific details. Who and what are we discussing, Minister? You left for four minutes here telling us that we are in a pretty good situation, unemployment is not going up that we are generally fourth in Europe. How did you get this information? You haven't made any suggestions. In Germany we hear: 500,000. EUR per company, PLN 2 million per company. With us, $5,000. I don't even have anything to refer to, 'cause $5,000. zł for the company it's nothing, it's nothing. I have such a huge request, Minister, because I have nothing to say about what you said here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The point is to give one important piece of information to Prime Minister Gowin. Will you pass it on? Tell him I'm buying him the best Łódź restaurant dinner to keep his business for $5,000. But if he can't hold this business for $5,000, he'll cover 100%. the cost of restaurants in Łódź. Tell him. And maybe this good humor finally comes out. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u490	The question will be asked by Mr Arkadiusz Carrot.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u491	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! If the state closes the company's entrepreneurs, it has to pay them compensation. The shield that the government has prepared is simply hollowed out like a thrush. You rule out one entrepreneur because some statistical code is entered under number two or three, not number one. The PFR shield announced last week excludes all entities, all those engaged in one-man business. You only fired the entrepreneurs from the ZUS in November, although many restaurants have been closed for almost 100 days. And the fact that there is not a single Member of the PIS in this debate only shows how disrespectful this power has to do with the problems of entrepreneurs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You make a law that's full of absurdity. Let me give you an example from Szczecin. In one place there is an ice rink, next to a small ski lift and a cafe. Everything the entrepreneur had to shut down. But not far from here, several hundred people were crowded on the hill on sleds. Where's the logic in that? Why can there be dozens of people on a public transport bus next to each other, in a closed space, or in a store, in a supermarket there can also be dozens of people waiting in line for the cash register, and in the open air, not on the ice rink anymore? Start giving these entrepreneurs real and constructive solutions. Allow your business to run, of course, with a sanitary regime. Because it might be that these entrepreneurs can limit e.g. the number of rooms available in hotels, they can let a limited number of people into this ice rink, but let's give these people a chance to work normally, because if you continue to surprise them overnight, prolong the lockdown, then these people will really have nothing to live for. I ask, Minister, for reason and for listening to the voices of entrepreneurs who are standing at this moment above the abyss and on the brink of bankruptcy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u492	The question will be asked by Mr Michał Jaros.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u493	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Economy, fools - it would be worth telling ministers and prime ministers, especially prime ministers: Morawiecki and Gowin, because they do not want to hear or see it. They don't want to look at human drama, the drama of entrepreneurs and their employees. You're shutting down people's businesses, you're shutting down command companies, you're introducing a sugar tax. He's chasing absurdity. You make mistakes, but you don't care, because you won't pay for those mistakes, because the government will feed itself. Polish taxpayers will pay for these mistakes and this is the wrong direction you have chosen. By eliminating these businesses, you expose people to drama. In fact, you're shutting down their businesses. Mr. Marshal, if I may continue. This situation, which takes place in Poland, is a bad situation, because you do not allow free people, free Poles and free Poles to run their businesses in freedom, and when you close their businesses, you do not give them any chance to get support to keep their jobs in place. You don't do that. I believe, Minister, that if you do not have the honour and courage to stand up in this House, I mean, of course, Prime Minister Gowin and Prime Minister Morawiecki, and face these entrepreneurs from all Polish cities, and tell them: we will help you - then really resign because you are destroying Polish business, destroying Polish entrepreneurs, destroying Polish economy, just destroying Poland. Shame. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u494	The question will be asked by Mr Franciszek Sterczewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u495	Dear Marshal, The absent Prime Minister! Half-empty High Izbo! Since spring, the government has been presenting further crisis shields, which are actually a collection of chaotic solutions. But the cardboard shield won't save anyone. In a dramatic situation there are people doing so-called jobs. garbage contracts. People are distraught and write me medical paramedics, flight attendants from LOT, travel guides, bartenders and waitresses whose salary is reduced by half or who lose their jobs overnight. The pathology of the Polish labour market concerns all sectors. I got a letter from a senior who makes extra money cleaning up at college for a penny's pension, and now there's nothing to buy drugs for. The solutions proposed by the government cover only certain contracts, and the parking is a charity that cannot be lived for. That's why I have a question: what are the government's plans, [[♪ The bell ♪]] To help all those employed, including those employed on the basis of garbage contracts? When are you gonna cancel ZUS and other fees for restaurants and other companies that can't do their business? What will you do to avoid a wave of bankruptcy and dismissal? How long are these people gonna last? Where is Prime Minister Morawiecki, where is Prime Minister Gowin? Why is half the room empty? Just because you're ignoring this problem doesn't make it disappear. You left Poles and Poles not on ice, just under the ice, and you'll pay for it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u496	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u497	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wanted to ask you three specific questions. First of all, I'd like to ask what kind of help the ski stations will get. This is a specific activity. On December 28th, the government closed the ski slopes, when these slopes were already prepared for business, when they incurred huge snow costs. It was already mentioned that 1 hour of snowing costs as much as 1000 PLN, but at large slopes - several thousand PLN. It was a huge amount of money invested to generate business revenue. In addition to the high expenditures, the speciality of downhill skiing is that these slopes operate only 3 and 4 months, until mid-March. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Time runs, and the government - I asked Minister Gut-Most today, of course it is not his competence - he did not answer when these slopes were opened. Currently, when there is no authorisation to operate, these slopes live because there are hundreds of people with sleds, parents, children, and no one is watching any sanitary regimes. And it hurts so much that despite repeated requests to Deputy Prime Minister Gowin, he did not enter into any dialogue with entrepreneurs. In Austria, Germany, Switzerland, Scandinavia, governments talk to entrepreneurs everywhere and decide on this basis. And with us, you don't count, you don't count the government with entrepreneurs, you don't respect them, you don't respond to any speeches. After all, they are prepared to comply with any restrictions, to fulfill all regimes. I ask: When will the opening of the business take place? Let people work, because there will be no danger when all the regimes are fulfilled, and entrepreneurs are ready to do so. Second question, short. Newly opened activity in 2019, at the end of the year especially when there was no turnover in December, but there were high expenditures, there were loans - there is nothing to compare, there is no aid. What about those entrepreneurs who are so indebted? Why the government, having Polish national banks, will not provide assistance in the form of deferral of loans, redemption of interest, etc.? After all, banks have great opportunities to help entrepreneurs. And one last question. Single-person business activity - apart from aid. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm really sorry to hear that today, because there's no answer. Nobody knows anything, nobody wants to help anyone. Ladies and gentlemen, this can't happen. I think the government is ignoring companies, ignoring the economy, and it's not gonna get far. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u498	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Adam Szłapka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u499	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A few minutes ago, Mr. Marshal Zgorzelski asked you if you wanted to speak, gave you a chance to use this speaker. You didn't take that chance. This is a mistake, because this was the moment when you could go out on the stand and say, "I'm sorry about all these Polish entrepreneurs, [[Applause]] The ones you're treating... My association, and I think that not only mine, is one with a sequence that many of us have heard on TV many times: the draw machine drum is empty, the lock is released and the draw starts - six industries. This is total chaos. The entrepreneur does not know whether he will be included in the list of closed industries tomorrow, whether he will be assisted or not. Nobody's got it under control. And the government's information policy and what appears only deepens chaos. That's probably the worst thing that entrepreneurs have to deal with today, because they can't plan anything. Did you have at least one reliable consultation with the entrepreneurs, planning what you're doing all the time? Have you talked to the fitness industry? Have you talked to the catering industry? Have you talked to the tourism industry? You didn't do a proper consultation because anyone... After all, the majority of Members in this Chamber are talking to those entrepreneurs and most of the things they raise and the things they have to say to you, simply cannot be quoted from this speaker. Have you also wondered what is going on with such professions as: A photographer? Anyone think there's no wedding? Therefore, they have nothing to live for either. What about the laundry? Hotels are closed. Chaos. What about the trade fair industry in Poznań? This is an extremely important matter. But there is another very important thing that no one in the government of Mateusz Morawiecki has thought about for a second. You've virtually shut down the entire economy without a solid legal basis. Entrepreneurs, who no longer have the strength, start opening their businesses and celebrating your regulations. Every court is on their side because the law is on their side. Have you considered what damage this will bring to the institution and to the authority of the state? Nobody takes you seriously, people open their businesses because what you're preparing doesn't matter, just nobody listens to you anymore. This is a very, very serious issue that we will face for years: restoring confidence in you and its institutions. One more thing about chaos, because today would be a good time to say it. Minister, what about the Polish economy on Monday 1 February? Entrepreneurs are waiting, they want to plan something. Time flies, we have to answer that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u500	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Barbara Nowacka a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u501	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Undersecretary Small! I wonder what happened to your heads, where you've lost your minds. By writing your regulations, by writing all these holes in your shields, you forgot the fundamental thing, you forgot the man. You said with such a light hand that, in fact, unemployment fell only by 0.1, and that's not so much. Do you know how many people that are? Do you know how many families these are? Do you know how many companies, families and people are threatened by your lack of thought for help? For you, maybe these are numbers, because maybe you've never been poor, because you and your loved ones may never have had to come out of the crisis, because maybe your family and your colleagues weren't at risk of losing their entire lives - I know that Minister Gowin was hungry because he wasn't satisfied with his first ministry salary - but today entrepreneurs and people at work (the bell) are looking scared at how you don't do anything, and what you're doing is wrong and thoughtless. First you came up with the idea of shutting down the entire economy, and then you add one, the other PKD. Do you have any idea how entrepreneurs reported this to PKD? It's not like if someone has five activities, he wondered 20 years ago what might be in one of the shields you're proposing. No, different companies in different moments wrote data into the PKD in different order, because it was used for statistical purposes, not for the purposes for which you are using it now. It's just absurd. You've forgotten about one-man business. You're saying that you're helping so much and that you're going to refund 80%. Local governments. Self-governments through your dull, anti-government politics have long been strangled, pressed against the wall. You put new responsibilities on them, and money isn't enough. What do local governments do to finance schools? Because the kids had to go back to school, as far as you know. The kids had to go back to school, the schools had to adjust with local government money, and that money had to come from somewhere in the local government. So what do local governments do? Self-governments raise taxes on entrepreneurs. The entrepreneur either doesn't pay and fall, or he pays and starts wondering what to sell. Can you sell a car or sell your own apartment, or can it end your business? Are you aware that this game of yours in the story of many billions put into it is completely unbelievable, because people know one thing: in a few months this crisis, which starts now, will result in job losses, the threat of economic security not 0.1, but individual families, sometimes the loss of a lifetime's achievements, sometimes the loss of security. A few months ago... You're the champions in hiding important problems. Today you decided to remain silent. Mr PiS Members were laughing, Minister, I'm sorry, Mr Undersecretary spoke about us for four minutes, and Prime Minister Gowin and Prime Minister Morawiecki just didn't come. You're the masters of covering up problems and causing wars and disputes in a place where people don't want them. But as you'll recall, Mr. Small Man, these protests from a few months ago, I'm sure you heard what the street was saying. And they told you to leave. And that's what angry women said. And are you aware of how angry the people of work and entrepreneurs are today? And they'll tell you the same thing. It will be your fault that part of the Polish economy... After all, more than 12 million people are employed in the private sector, and in the public sector there are also redundancies, because you have on TVP, but you no longer have LOT employees. There may have been awards for the board - it's also an interesting topic - but there you fire employees. People lose their jobs in their companies, they have no way of doing business. The young people who worked in restaurants, restaurants, there's nothing to live for. You bring disaster to the state, self-government, the rule of law, and you don't know that you need to start preventing it? Do you have the audacity to come out with such blunt propaganda? People are telling you in the streets, like sometimes you go out, what they have to say to you. You still have a chance. You have a chance because you're supposed to be responsible for legislation, economic legislation, at least that's what Wikipedia says. You have a chance to make it better. And our appeal today is for you to finally take care of it. Tell those old gentlemen who didn't come here to fix the holes. We have to help people, otherwise in a few months we'll be in a crisis like we were in at the beginning of the '90s. And those who remember these times know that it was suffering, it was exclusion, and for many years we have come out of this crisis. And we only left thanks to entrepreneurship and resourcefulness of Poles and Poles. Do we really have to go through this test twice through your inability? People don't want it, they tell you to apologize and run quickly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u502	The question will be asked by Mrs Monica Falej.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u503	Mr. Marshal! I don't know, I should really say hello to the Prime Minister or to the Deputy Prime Minister, because, just to remind you, if you could watch now, with interest, of course, what is the information? Deputy Prime Minister of the Council of Ministers, Minister for Development, Labour and Technology on the situation of sectors most at risk of loss of revenue during the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic and proposals to support workers and entrepreneurs in 2021. As you can see, those who are to present it simply do not exist. Those who are going to debate it aren't there either. Ms Urszula Rusecka, a representative of the United Right, spoke in her speech on partnership, on contact with entrepreneurs and industry representatives, setting out for them the assistance they should receive. I'm also asking if this is about the industries that the police are visiting right now (the bell) and the health department is starting to deal with them on the basis of, of course, the regulation, so that it is not that on the basis of the law. Today, entrepreneurs signal me that the health department has requested a profit statement from the day of the check and an estimate of the losses if they did not open on that day of the check. And I'm asking if the health department is the IRS today. It's kind of an incomprehensible situation at all. The government also, realizing, of course, the seriousness of the situation and the recession, promised support for entrepreneurs. But, as it turns out, for mountain businessmen, because apparently they're more in need there. Here, too, I ask the question when entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs from Warmia and Mazury and Powiśle will receive this honour. They'd love to use it. Therefore, I ask when the government will at least declare an approximate opening date for the industries most affected by lockdown. When will hotels, restaurants, gyms and all the industries associated with them return to work, those that can't work now? And last but not least, there's one more thing I'm very curious about. Why did the government delay the decision to close the cemeteries on All Saints' Day and decide several hours earlier? Polish entrepreneurs and Polish entrepreneurs selling flowers, ruins, industries that also cooperate with them lost thousands of zlotys on purchased goods, which they could not sell. That is why I am asking what this help is supposed to look like, what this debate is supposed to look like and with whom this debate is going to be with. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u504	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u505	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A delicious and arrogant officer who ran out in the gym after midnight today! A few months ago in this room, we talked about helping entrepreneurs so that they wouldn't lose their jobs. Then you, Mr. Small, gave an interview. I'll remind you of it, because you probably don't remember: Money to fund employees' salaries will be there all the time, and if they aren't there, there will be the possibility of gaining them constantly - April 21, 2020. Shame, Mr. Nieżak, to come here and lie. It's a shame not to settle things that she's declared to be. But you didn't resent me because you had another boss back then. It is not to you that they sent you here (the bell) themselves, because it is not your fault that Gowin and Morawiecki are ashamed to come, to look into the eyes of thousands of entrepreneurs and hundreds of thousands of employees. It is not your fault that government benches are full when you have to fill your pockets and empty when you have to explain why Polish entrepreneurs cry and their employees have to look at their companies and wonder why they fall. They're falling because of you. By Mr Morawiecki, by Mr Gowin, by Mr Kaczyński and by you, because the responsibility for what is happening in Polish business and in Polish workers' homes is where the decisions of the Government of Law and Justice are. You failed and cheated. Today instead of saying sorry, let's try to fix it together. With a shoe and arrogance you try to shout this horrible, shrill and sinister mood among Polish entrepreneurs. History won't forget this. Please, Mr. Nieżak, remind this at the Council of Ministers meeting. Yummy always goes before the fall. This empty bench will be the beginning of your end. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u506	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Jan Szopiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u507	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am in this Seym for the first term of office and I probably don't understand a lot of things. What's going on in this room today, I don't understand anymore. And if I don't understand it, then I'm sure those who sent us here to the Sejm can't understand it, our voters. They expected us to debate with the government about the situation of Polish entrepreneurs, because it is a question of the future of our homeland, the future of Poland, the future of the next generations. I understand that today, like the 459 parliamentarians, I was invited to this room by Marshal Elżbieta Witek, who wrote on the agenda of the High House: Information from the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers (Dzinek), Minister of Development, Labour and Technology on the situation of the most vulnerable industries during the pandemic and proposals to support workers and entrepreneurs in 2021. We have been contacted by many entrepreneurs, hoping that today Prime Minister Gowin will be present in this Chamber and will have proposals for entrepreneurs for 2021 and, above all, will respond to Poles and Poles, which will be for Polish entrepreneurs after 1 February. And what happened today is one big scandal. After all, this House is the place, and the time where we are to talk like a Pole with a Pole. Mr. Marshal! Do you know anything that absent PiS Members, perhaps they are, have given up their seats today and therefore left this room? This is one big scandal. I'd like to ask you a question, Minister. I know that there may have been opinions that you don't deserve, because you've been meeting with entrepreneurs and working out some good models for these companies. But believe me, we were expecting you in this courtroom today. We were expecting your Deputy Prime Minister because that's what it says on the House's agenda today. And the Prime Minister wasn't able to come to us. The Prime Minister sent you as a shield. As a shield, not for talking to us. I would also like not to ask your marshal, but I kindly ask the marshal to tell us at the next session of the Sejm whether we will continue to debate. When there are good laws for the PiS, or when the President will be in this Chamber, the PiS Members will be there, and when we need to listen and work out a solution together, because there are some failures in Poland, there are poor people, there are people who do not have a job, there are people for whom we hope that we will make a good law for them, or then there will be PiS Members. This is one big scandal that happened today in this room. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u508	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Katarzyna Ueberhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u509	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! We hear the government is working on a new industrial policy. Does this mean that Morawiecki's failed plan will no longer be implemented? What is the assessment of Morawiecki's plan after 5 years of implementation? Another question. The level of investment in Poland has fallen below 20% in recent years, to the level from the 1990s. Have lessons been learned from the wrong investment policy of the government? Does the government have a contingency plan for the failure of existing investment policy? Another question. The Left has proposed that, as part of support for entrepreneurs in the crisis, the exemption of the Social Security Office and PIT should be extended, as the current solutions are not sufficient. Does the government intend to introduce these solutions and when? And if not, why not? Why won't he bring them in? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will and when the government intends to open closed industries, in the sanitary regime of course, but still open, especially here I am referring to the gastronomic industry Or the fitness industry? Of course, creative entrepreneurs are trying to cope, some are opening up despite restrictions, but is this really what we want to be, to be a law that no one will obey, because it is not really a law? Do you know that Poland currently has the largest national swimming staff in the world? The government closed the pools, but there's a way to circumvent the law. How long are you gonna keep this farce that Bareja wouldn't even think of? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u510	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u511	Mr. Marshal! The absent Prime Minister! Abandoned Members of the PIS! I am, I wasn't counting, maybe a 50th messenger, an envoy who came here in good faith and at hours. 0.30 has prepared questions for the government on the issue we met here. And I listen to this debate, I sit in the back, I listen to my colleagues, my fellow Members, Members who in various ways are trying to find logic in this illogical situation, trying to find a method in this chaos, trying various rhetorical, emotional tricks in good faith, thinking that they will reach with information (the bell), with beliefs to the government and to the government of Members who are not present in this Chamber - oh, three Members have returned now, finally - that they will reach them with the horror of this whole situation and with ways to control the chaos. I come to the conclusion, I have an impression - I have prepared questions, simple questions that have already been asked here, maybe a few have not been asked - that this chaos is deliberate and that it is not so that it governs this chaos of inability, incompetence, lack of knowledge, lack of experience, but that it is intentional. At least there's such a suspicion that it's intentional. Because if hotels close and do not want to talk to the industry - this is one example - hotels, you do not look for ways to operate this industry in the sanitary regime, although other industries are allowed to operate in the same regime... That's where the questions came from. You have said with conviction that they probably do not understand it, we will explain it to them. But maybe they understand that. Maybe they understand that these hotels could be functioning and deliberately forbid them from operating? Maybe that's why it's empty. Maybe Prime Minister Gowin didn't come because they knew it. And the Polish hotel holding company begins, as we read, to offer fallen or falling or barely struggling hotels on this market to buy for 5%, 10% values. Maybe this logic is in control of the chaos we've been dealing with for a year? Because if the method was to close the economy, protect Poles and Poles and their health in this way, then okay. However, why in this case the state of the natural disaster was not announced, as the opposition did not ask for because there were presidential elections, just because such a situation, rather than another, took place in Poland since March. If there was a natural disaster, there would be compensation for all those sectors affected by the disaster. It's just that there's no compensation, right? The presidential election is over, so why don't we announce the state of the natural disaster now? Then this closure would be legal, but there would also be compensation. If the state of the natural disaster has not been declared and yet there is closure, then why, as in other countries, do not pay 80% A salary? Why aren't you paying these employees? Why doesn't it compensate for Polish fixed costs? Why hasn't it been done like this? In England, around, with our neighbors closer and further? Why is this aid calculated at the moment - I'm almost done - for 3 months? It's about those PCDs that are supposed to get this help. Suppose they get it, 20% of them get it. Why three months? Does Prime Minister Gowin have information that the pandemic is about to end in three months? Why in all this... And it was in every speech, there were examples, how it works, that it doesn't work, that it's illogical, that this one has to submit an application, and this one struggles, that then comes control, makes it pay back. Is it just a mess or is it a deliberate mess made to pretend you do something when you don't do anything? Are these shields holes because there are no professionals who can plan a hole-in-the-wall? No, these shields are holes because they're supposed to be holes. Last sentence. Polish self-governments. Polish local governments have lost billions, they have not received any systemic support yet. 2300 municipalities, which are not mountain municipalities, received no support. Can these self-governments count on any aid or are they just going to count their losses, hold off all investments and cut costs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u512	The question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Bosak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u513	First of all, I would like to take this opportunity to point out that it is unworthy of how the governing camp treated your deputy minister, leaving him here alone with us, to be torn apart by the opposition. I am sure that if it were up to you, the economy would not be closed, and that you came to the government to develop the economy, not to close it, and that you probably cannot believe yourself in the situation in which you were in the position in which you were to develop the economy, at this moment you must manage the unpredictable completely, probably also for you, government decisions dictated probably by public opinion polls, perhaps the moods in the government or the mood of the president of the governing party. In fact, our questions are addressed to the wrong person. Perhaps if Prime Minister Morawiecki were here with us. You might say he's taking responsibility for all of this if he didn't agree, maybe he'd resign. But after all (the bell), even though I note this, I will ask one question: What are we supposed to say as Members of the various districts of the people who ask us questions, they say that no help ever comes to them because either they do not hit the shields, or they have worked on civil law contracts, or they have not been properly covered by all regulations, or they were simply deceived in December by the Prime Minister, who said that they would be able to open up and maybe, if some indicators were fulfilled, they would open up and they would not open up. What exactly are we supposed to tell them, Minister? Because in my opinion, there's actually nothing left to say about how you look at it and look at it. You just don't want to wash people's eyes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u514	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mrs Joanna Borowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u515	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I am amazed to hear and amaze you, as those who told me during the outbreak of swine flu told Poles to enjoy spring and not worry about anything. You're not listening. And during the economic crisis in 2008-2009 they provided Polish entrepreneurs with all 9 billion PLN, that was the shield. Who she was supposed to help, I don't really know. What was the economic growth, Commissioner? Today, the same people are trying to give prescriptions to fight the pandemic. You are well aware, Mr President, that the restrictions are necessary to break the chain of infection. We are now at a special moment - at the start of vaccination. After all, the pandemic is over, says the Member, there is nothing to be afraid of. Vaccinations are underway. More than 0.5 million Poles were vaccinated. The following groups are vaccinated. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The most sensitive and in need of vaccination group are our seniors as a group that is most susceptible to infection and the most severe undergoes Coronavirus. Unfortunately, there are the most deaths in this group. That is why I have a question for you: What are you going to do, Members of the opposition, calling for the abolition of the restrictions? urging that suddenly, now open everything that was closed. You didn't really listen to what we said. Let us remind you that in Poland there is no epidemic full of lockdown. There are only certain sharpenings in those industries where, as we know from world research, the most rapid spread of the coronavirus. No, there's a national quarantine... We can't afford to have a surge of infections growing dramatically during vaccinations today. We need this chain of infection... That's why you opened schools. Mrs Nowacka, please do not shout. We have to do everything... Then make sense, you weren't... Don't yell. Mrs Nowacka has just said to me now that I am blaspheming. Get to the point. Madam, it may be late, maybe it's time to go to bed. To the ethics committee. Members of the opposition! Platform! There was supposed to be no more epidemics in November. After all, your leader said clearly: there will be no epidemic in the fall. We wait all the time for the data, for the source from which your leader, the leader of the Civic Platform, Mr Boris Budka, drew his knowledge. He still hasn't answered that question. Please quote Mr Morawiecki. I understand what I'm talking about is very inconvenient. What is your hypocrisy? In November Ub. in the same plenary room during the information of the Minister of Health regarding the situation of COVID in Poland... The ventilator guy? ...manage of the Civic Platform, when information was presented that the government was preparing a vaccination plan, they screamed: like what vaccination plan it was, it was too early. In January, we hear when vaccinations began in Poland on December 27th... I'm just gonna remind you because what you're saying in the courtroom today is clearly showing that you have a terrible short memory, possibly selective memory. Let me remind you that when the outbreak of Coronavirus started and turned into a global pandemic, we all prayed that the vaccine would be the earliest. And that was supposed to be two years at the earliest. It's been less than a year, this vaccine is. And today, instead of supporting the government in certain actions, instead of helping, instead of joining in with some solutions, the state is still falling into the sand in the modes. This, too, is an example of today's discussion. That's not the point. But there's no talking here. It is difficult to call it a discussion in the plenary room. But there was no Member, you were out of the room. Now in January 2021, the same Members, the same Platform, are talking about vaccines. What do you mean? It's the wrong group, it's the wrong order. Ladies and gentlemen! Your questions show that either you do not know the contents of the laws, or you deliberately manipulate and disinformed Poles. Where do you get the data? You're getting Twitter data. Mrs Lewis, who unfortunately is no longer in the plenary room... You've been gone for two hours. ...she said she was getting Twitter data. Where's he gonna get it? And so, ladies and gentlemen... Mr. Marshal, I have such a question for you, are you still conducting these proceedings? How the government lies. Madam President, please concentrate very much on your response and I will try to make sure that you can continue your speech calmly. I'm asking you very kindly because that's the only reason I turned to you. You've been given water, the water is there. Well, ladies and gentlemen, you then give heresy, but it is difficult not to give heresy if you do not know the contents of the laws that are being practiced in the Seym. You're just showing that you only have zero knowledge. Ha, ha, ha! The problem with temporary hospitals. Why aren't there temporary hospitals? The shield's dilated. Get to the point. Madam President, must the assessment of opposition Members' knowledge be included in this question? Mr. Marshal, with all due respect to you... Mr. Marshal, everyone had time... I don't limit time. I don't limit time. Marshal, I have a favor to ask of you. You have not reviewed the statements of the Members of the opposition. Please don't review mine and refrain from it either. Don't review. You're welcome to ask a question. Question for the Minister. 'Cause about what... But maybe in a minute. Coronavirus pandemic was a surprise to everyone. Today we're struggling with her second wave. We are aware that the situation of businesses in the sectors most affected by the loss of income due to Coronavirus is really difficult. However, by listening to Members of the opposition who draw such black scenarios that it might seem that around it is only a rubble, and it is not... Unfortunately, it's impossible to listen to it calmly. Anti-crisis shields and financial shields at the first wave of epidemics - from these shields to entrepreneurs, 175 billion PLN went to Polish companies. Platforms' anti-crisis packages, I will remind you, 2008-2009, I already said this: 9 billion PLN. 175 and 9. Just compare it. We've saved over 5 million jobs. The Platform Members today called it demagogy. If for you more than PLN 170 billion for entrepreneurs and more than 5 million jobs saved is demagogy, then I congratulate you on your good humor. 30. But it's no wonder, because the opposition has often shown that they don't understand the mechanisms of support, or you just don't want to understand it, especially since your leaders quietly praised it, praised it. Is that a question? Who's the question? On the other hand, the shield of the Polish Development Fund 2.0, the financial shield, which in the second wave of pandemic - at the moment entrepreneurs have already submitted applications for PLN 1105 million. Please add this to the 175 billion. Mr. Marshal, this is... Do not try - it is to the Members of the opposition - do not try to capitalize political capital on pandemics and on the difficult situation of entrepreneurs, because all the speeches... Is the truth... I just wanted to point out politely that you have switched roles with the Minister, because you answer questions instead of asking them. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Mr. Marshal, once again, I ask you very much to treat me... But Marshal Terlecki would have kicked you out of the podium. Just phrase the question. Mr. Marshal, I have a request for you to stop selecting Members. But everyone's asked questions, you're the only one who answers. Because you, Mr. Marshal, didn't pay any attention to any of the Members of the opposition... But you went to eat. You weren't there. Nobody said anything about... Please. We have as much time as the opposition, two hours. Why not? And now, you are saying that there is no help. This is completely hypocritical. And now the question, and then one more note. Minister! In view of all that we hear from the opposition, against these false, manipulation and lies, I wanted to ask you: How do the restrictions imposed on the pandemic of Coronavirus in other countries look compared to the restrictions introduced at the moment in Poland? In what order did Polish entrepreneurs receive support in the conversion into a percentage of GDP? But that's what you said. Isn't it? Thank you very much. No, no, I'm not done yet, Marshal. [[Joy in the Chamber]] No, that's enough. I will add a few figures at the end for the country that says that it is so tragic that the financial situation is dramatic and that unemployment is rising. Comparison of data of the Central Statistical Office: November 2015, the last year of the Platform's and PSL's governments, and November 2020, last year, that is, the year of the Coronavirus pandemic. At the top of the pandemic. Employment increased by 12.5%. Unemployment fell by 33%. The salaries have increased by almost 32%. Retirement has increased by more than 20%. That's 42% this year. The social pension has increased by more than 62%. And a message literally from the last minute. Deficit increased by PLN 700 billion. The data published by the Central Statistical Office on Polish freight turnover with foreign countries indicate that despite the release of both the Polish economy and the world economy, the value of export of goods from Poland expressed in PLN increased by 1.5%. in relation to the same period of the previous year. That's what the data from the year of the Coronavirus pandemic looked like. Commissioner, the public debt has increased by PLN 800 billion. Now for the last sentence, Marshal. Thank you so much for letting me give it to you. I am very sorry because I did not think that I would say such a thing to your marshal, but unfortunately today's proceedings, this part of the deliberations, by your marshal, I find it outrageous. Ooh... Ten minutes, ma'am. How can you... You turned the pleural room into Hyde Park. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u516	And I have the impression, Mrs... Formal conclusion. If you don't mind, I would like to answer that at the moment when the Sejm's deliberations are being conducted by opposition marshals, at least they can see the impression that parliamentarianism in this House has been brought into the caricature category. [[Applause]] Bravo! Formal conclusion, Mr. Marshal. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u517	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm filing a formal request for a recess because Mrs Borowiak, Mrs Ruseck and Mr Wargock went to eat a bit, to drink, and the room was empty. You came back full, satisfied and smiling. Do us a favor. Let's take a break till morning. We'll come back, we'll raid. It's not gonna look like you're coming and poking us, saying you know everything. You didn't let the minister say you didn't, and you think you know best. Did you need a consult with the president in the back? Too bad you didn't sit here for two hours. Shame and shame. That's the way the PS treats the Sejm. We're sitting here listening, and you're going to the back to eat and drink. Shame. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u518	Or will it be so, sir, that if the Members have used the government lounge, they will also invite the other Members to it? [[Applause]] It'd be fine. The piss will feed. Can I do it now? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u519	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Dear Opposite! Are you satisfied with yourselves already? You guys are already wobbling, are you doing a show? That's all you can do. You've already done the show? But you're doing it, you're doing it. We've been listening. You just couldn't listen to it. This is your show, this street brawl, this is no way to help entrepreneurs. That's what you're doing. Your emotions... on the disabled, on the retired, on the sick, and now on the entrepreneurs in a difficult situation. Question. They're like that, aren't they? At the time when the Entrepreneur's Aid Act was being considered, it was your Member who would then speak at the protest. The Platform Member and the Left Member wanted to take a break because for you (the bell) a street demonstration was more important than... Yes. Of course I'll take a break. ...helping entrepreneurs. Don't tell people how interested you are in helping entrepreneurs. You've all been in charge. You want to give advice to the government of law and justice... But here we are... Mrs. Member! As the Left ruled, unemployment... But the statements at the end will be. ...was almost 19%. How did you rule? Gambling, sweaty Bread. We all remember that. As you were on the Platform, unemployment was... Don't talk about your dreams. Sir, I was born a little earlier than you, so I remember these things. You have selective memory. Szumowski... The State of the Platform, how much was unemployment, how did you rule? What money did you spend on disabled people, on pensioners? How much was the deficit... And what was it in 2007? But it's a stream of consciousness. I would ask you very much to allow your fellow Member to speak calmly. Gentlemen and Members of the Civic Platform! There was no crisis, and you had a deficit problem. You were caught up in the rule. This is James. Joyce on steroids. You should've tightened your belt. You can't rule, and you want to lecture us. God's providence watched over Poland that you did not rule during this pandemic, which engulfs the whole world. There's a lockdown in Germany, Belgium, France. Do you think... You can't even lockdown. ...that Poland is on Mars, that the epidemic didn't get us? What are you guys talking about? Get down on the ground. Because, as I have already said, the Member does not know the tools of assistance and the Left, by reporting this point of aid to entrepreneurs... What were you guys doing in the back? I have a question for the Minister. Is it true that in order to be able to apply for help from an anti-crisis shield, you should... Oh, dear? Are you suspended? What's so weird about that? Excuse me, ma'am, but please allow me to speak with you. Member, I thought you were... Ha, ha, ha! ...a really intelligent person, but you... I didn't have any illusions. Yeah, I just turned it on purpose. You're really above your level of intelligence. Above? Ha, ha, ha! Minister! What is help from the crisis shields? This whole package of financial assistance instruments for employees and employers within the framework of the crisis shields is designed... This is a parking benefit, a one-off payment of 80% minimum remuneration. The benefit may be granted up to a maximum of three times. You can get an exemption from the Social Security Office. What is the financial shield of PFR 2.0? Microenterprises can apply for financial support from a pool of 6.5 billion PLN, while small and medium-sized enterprises can apply for assistance worth 6.5 billion PLN. For large companies, the level of support is 25 billion. How much is the subsidy from the financial shield 2.0? The amount of the subsidy will depend on the extent of the drop in revenue. For small and medium-sized enterprises it is 18 000. PLN per employee with a decrease in revenue from 30% to 60%. 36,000. PLN per employee with a decrease in revenues above 60%. Listen, sir, because from this discussion that has taken place, we conclude... But what do you refer to us? There's a sign at the end. ...you just don't know it. But these are questions. But I'm asking the Minister a question... What are you referring to? Those are questions. ...if that's true. Let him tell me if it's true that... Ha, ha, ha! Now that even the Members of the Law and Justice don't believe... Maximum amount... The truth is, Miss... ...can amount to 324,000. zł. It is possible to redeem up to 100% grants for the maintenance of employment up to 2021. Is that true? It's all in financial shield 2.0, sir. Is that true? Is that true? The Minister will confirm that immediately. Ha, ha, ha! Who can apply for help from a financial shield? This solution is addressed to employees from micro, small and large companies and for entrepreneurs who conduct business activities under 45 PKD codes. Support will be available, among others. companies from: events, trade fairs, exhibitions and congresses, retail trades, hotels, catering establishments, tourism, fitness activities, artistic exhibition activities, artistic performance activities. Please don't occupy the speaker. We're dealing with an obstruction procedure. Minister! What conditions must be met to receive assistance from the financial shield? You're going on record. Please do not disturb, the State of the Entrepreneur is probably interested in what the Government of Law and Justice offers, which is the only reliable government. A minimum of 30% reduction in turnover between April and December or October to December 2020 must be demonstrated compared to the corresponding period in 2019. It is necessary to carry out an economic activity as at 31 December 2019 and on the date on which the application for financial support is submitted. That's the sado-maso version. It is necessary to operate in one or more of the 45 PKD codes indicated. There can be no arrears in paying taxes and social security contributions. How can you obtain financial shield assistance, Minister? Applications can be submitted through the website... It's true. ...and from 15 January 2021 to 28 February 2021 - via the electronic banking system, as in the case of PFR 1.0. There is also a problem with the inventory industry, but you will manage. Where to find information about the financial shield PFR 2.0.? For your information and news, I will say that entrepreneurs come to my office as well and I happen to live in a city where the pandemic hit very hard, because this is a city that only, mostly, lives from tourism. Sorry about that, ma'am. What is the help of the industry shield? That's the question. Now I'm going to tell you about the industry shield because you don't know it at all. Companies can apply for assistance in the form of: exemption from ZUS contributions for November 2020, single additional parking benefit of PLN 2080... Is there a phone book to give you? ...payment of PLN 2,000 to the employee's salary. This also applies to contract-orders, because there was a question here. Orders and deeds. And you're the one from the Confederation asking about the people who are on the trash deal. Persons on trash contracts can also use the industry shield. Please... Madame, but as he asked the question, he certainly expected an answer from the Minister. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm sure the Minister will confirm that. [[Joy in the Chamber]] But Mrs. Rusecka's in the loop right now. In addition, traders trading in marketplaces and bazaars are exempt from the fair fee in 2021. The Council of Ministers has submitted... Is it true, Minister... [[Joy in the Chamber]] Just hold on. How about a glass of water? Hold on, it's just a crisis. Already? Already? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Okay, is the truth... It is very sad that you simply do not know this as Members, something that is... We know... You know that. Yes. So why these questions from self-government through thousands of other stories? Is it true, Minister, that the Council of Ministers has submitted and extended the assistance of the industry shield? This includes: exemption from the payment of ZUS contributions... The Minister shakes his head that he doesn't. ...and then for 2 months grants for micro- and small companies up to 5 thousand. PLN, additional parking and salary subsidies. The new solutions are expected to enter into force on 1 February 2021 and the value of the aid can be up to PLN 5 billion and cover up to about 300,000. entrepreneurs. Theaters are closed. Minister! Let us remind you who can apply for help from the industry shield. [[Applause]] Bravo! The industry shield is a support for companies, about 45 industries, whose dominant activity is identified by PKD code and which were most affected by sanitary sharpening during the second wave of the pandemic of Coronavirus. Companies from the gastronomic, cultural and entertainment sectors can apply for help... Yes? ...stradowa... Oh, that's your business. ...tournament, photography, film, museum, sports, fitness, gyms, recreation, spas, sales. Yes, yes, theaters, Member. Member of the Platform. I'm not from the Platform. The cost of obtaining for artists is who cut it? That's what your governments looked like. I'm not from the Platform. So you're really gonna learn a lot by listening to what's in the bill, because you never have time to read this bill, just... But ask questions. And now you're asking me questions. It's very nice to hear, always. You've been over 10 minutes. Of course, the question is this. Is the truth... Is it true, Minister, that the Council of Ministers extended and extended the aid from the industry shield? Is it true that in the bill that we have adopted, and on which Members, not necessarily from the opposition, [[Joy in the Chamber]] They wanted to listen and know what was written there, there's a delegation It was for the Council of Ministers, from which the Minister at the moment used, to extend all reductions from the industrial shield. Please don't occupy the speaker. You are having a very good time, and I will say this: even in this law, which I am now referring to, which gives a great deal of state aid to the affected industries, you have had a good time, you have tabled 451 amendments, of which these amendments were simply unimportant in the vast majority. Tell that to all the industries you've turned down: laundry, coach... Next to the industry shield, the financial shield, the crisis shield can also be obtained - Minister, please confirm this if you can - help with BGK. Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego offers financing, as well as guarantee and guarantee schemes under the What happened to that lady? BGK aid grants for both new and borrowed loans, de minimis guarantee up to 80% the amount of the loan, the liquidity guarantee, the guarantee of the factoring limit, the guarantee of the Creative Europe. Who can, Minister, who can apply for help from Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego? Just all entrepreneurs in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Is that true? That's enough. Really go to Carpathian and meet me there... Besides this, you can still get help from the Industrial Development Agency. Is that true? The Industrial Development Agency offers assistance in the form of operating leasing of machinery for the purchase of machinery and equipment, a turnover loan to finance the deficit in working capital and many, many other financial instruments. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! The seriousness of this House... She's been compromised. I'm sure your marshal isn't preserved in his proceedings today. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ah... This is the only marshal who can be spoken without restriction.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u520	I would like to ask Mrs Teresa Wargock's question. The paper.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u521	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If you'll allow the marshal to take me back... [[Game in the O.R.]] I would ask you very much to remain calm when you speak. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I would like to comment on the comments made by your Members regarding our absence from the Chamber. We came as a representation of the Law and Justice Club to participate in the debate... And how many of you can enter the O.R.? ...to listen to your proposals, to ask the Minister questions. But unfortunately, your comments from this speaker differed far from the definition of debate. Without a political invitation, we're at this political rally. Believe me, if you're sitting on a bench and a messenger is waving a finger, lying, manipulating, accusing, accusing you of lack of empathy, compassion for people, that we don't care about a normal person, it's really mental harassment. Is that true? Everyone has the right to defend themselves. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Oh... Our leaving this room was a defense of our dignity. So much for explaining. [[Applause]] Bravo! Another thing - the conclusions of this debate and the discussion. There's a saying that if God wants to punish someone, he's out of his mind. There's something in it. And your behaviour as an opposition during this difficult time for all Poles, during this difficult time when concern for the health of the nearest... It's a parliamentary statement. ...about the life you're closest to, when there's concern about the economic basis of family life, about the emotions that you're trying to convey to society, it's really out of place. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki at the beginning of this pandemic asked all political parties, all clubs for cooperation. Unfortunately, you did not take advantage of this invitation. We've made adjustments. Every law and justice proposal is a bad proposal, not enough, too late, too early, too small. Which amendments did you support? Many of your amendments have been supported, even in the case of a 6.0 shield. We supported your amendments. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Four hundred of them. Once again, I would like to ask you to allow me to speak to you. Don't question me from the number of votes on the committee because I can't answer you. Surely there were amendments that we supported, and those were your amendments. So that's it. It is not that we do not talk if there are substantive proposals. But if you propose - these solutions fell in the hall - that we can from the state budget, indebted to the next generations, to all Poles in Poland to compensate for the loss of income, it is populism. It's unfair, it's a law-and-righteous act. This is irresponsible. Don't go that way, because we will really get Poland out of this crisis, we will really move on with the economy after the inoculation of society and you will be in a situation of lost people... Not us. Poland. ...who have not behaved in a difficult, traumatic period for our homeland, as it should be. Minister! No questions. I know all about how the government helps entrepreneurs and how it takes care of every citizen. Thank you very much. Ad vocem.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u522	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Magdalena Beyat. And then Mr Piotr Boris.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u523	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You've been switching accusations, and I've come to ask the Minister something, since he's still here with us. I am curious to see how you have helped workers in closed industries, which we are trying to discuss here at least. You mentioned in your extremely brief speech, and indeed you admitted that the hardest part was at the moment. the catering industry. Are you aware that you are aware in the government that this is one of the most littered sectors of the labour market? What does that mean? This means that very often the catering industry employs workers and workers not on the basis of a contract of employment, but in black, on the basis of garbage contracts. Do you have any offer for those employees whose employers are sometimes not even able to demonstrate? How do you help them? You're saying we've got 139,000. companies. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is very interesting information and it would be even more interesting to know how many of these new shiny companies are single-person businesses, how many of them are de facto employees pushed into self-employment due to a very difficult economic situation. I'd appreciate that information. The official number of unemployed people has recently increased by almost 180 000 in recent months. But it's only a part of hundreds of thousands of people without jobs, and you certainly know that these statistics don't fully reflect what's going on in the labour market. What are the concrete plans for helping these people? Because the current unemployment benefit is not enough, and we all know that. I also have a question: Why is the government not discussing what the Left has been trying to initiate since April about how badly the unemployment support system is working right now, which is absolutely unsuited to the crisis situation, which is in no way able to really support those who are currently losing their jobs? Finally, my last question, because I will not speak as long as my colleagues from Law and Justice, is: Why do you agree that the State Labour Inspection should not give trade union headquarters access to the agreement to cut their salaries? We've talked about this many times, we've talked about it today. You have shifted the responsibility and cost of this crisis to workers. It's happening again. We observe this not only during these governments, but also during Tusk's rule, it is happening again. We know that salaries are cut, and we know that it is very often a condition for helping workers to cut their salaries. Thus, at least a basic security would be to allow the Land's headquarters to look into these agreements, and that is not the case. Are you going to do something about it? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u524	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u525	Dear Marshal, ad vocem. Firstly, I would like to thank Marshal Piotr Zgorzelski very much for giving an unlimited voice in Parliament's debate in this House on such an important subject, actually, to all persons without a time limit. This is not the case when your marshals are holding this debate, there is no way to speak without restrictions in order to discuss the most important issues in the plenary room. It's the first thing. It wasn't a discussion. And you can't attack a marshal for showing a truly civic attitude guaranteeing genuine parliamentaryism in this House. That's one thing. Secondly, Commissioner, how can you accuse us of not being serious in this debate when this room is empty? You're either two or three. There's none of you. You did not participate in the whole debate. We heard everything. At our request, we wanted the Prime Minister (the bell) to attend at our request in this debate on the fate of 4 million employers and employees, at least Deputy Prime Minister Gowin. This is ignoring the MPs, but... And listening to this. ...missary, also ignoring all those people who are waiting for constructive conclusions from this debate. The questions were not constructive. Another ad vocem case. How can you attack the opposition for making - we all make - whether we are from the Confederation, the Left - constructive amendments? Cash registers - 3.5 thousand. For the fiscal money for the entrepreneurs you're shutting down. They have to buy them since January and they still have checks. The issue of alcohol concessions, the question of complementing industries that are not included in our amendments, the sectors for companies that are also limited and closed. After all, you rejected most of these amendments. All PKDs have been reported, even the tobacco industry. Do you want me to remind you of how many Senate amendments you rejected that guaranteed all sectors in the pandemic to get government aid? Here's another thing. Government aid, according to our assessment, was to guarantee support from the time of closure, i.e. from October to March, when we assume that the pandemic would pass. After all, she's selective, she's monthly with the possibility of extension. By June, take it easy. It's selective, it's not complex. I will therefore say for the last time: you are treating the opposition's amendments, not guaranteeing that the interests of workers and employers are taken into account, only at your own weird discretion. And please don't criticize our attitudes, because we will defend every amendment you have rejected. You can talk for hours, but you can't defend yourself. I'd like this debate to be listened to by these employers, those employees you've deprived of government aid from shields. The amendment concerning the transfer of lease payments, which was included in the first part of the pandemic, also did not find itself... Listen to entrepreneurs and employers, come to cities, towns and organize an open meeting, such as those in which we participate and during which we listen. No, because we're not participating. Please come. I would like to invite you to Karpacz or Szklarska Poręba. Come and tell the entrepreneurs exactly that. I guarantee you'll hear other words. Thank you. [[Applause]] Don't invite us because you're gonna kill us like you did in the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u526	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Sosnierz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u527	High Izbo! What just happened here? She asks a half-hour question, she answers it herself on behalf of the Minister. That's hilarious, really. You said it was all done because you had to stop the chain of infection. So, did we stop? Yes. Not 27,000. a 4. No, we didn't interrupt anything, we have... I'm sending you back to this data, you're gonna rewind it, because I'm not gonna beat all of you here again with statistics from different countries. Look at Sweden. We have not stopped, we have a completely average and in many cases worse results than countries that have not closed the economy, so we have not interrupted any chain of infections. You made fun of Mr Budka here, who prophesied the end of the epidemic. But, Commissioner, do you want me to remind you? I am not defending Mr Budka, but should I remind you of the various statements made by Prime Minister Morawiecki who announced that the virus was over... Well, there's no epidemic according to the Confederation. ...Miss Czarnek, who said here in May that we had fought the epidemic? How did we fight? We're still hanging out with it today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I can remind you of how the slopes will be open or closing the cemeteries at the last minute. Really, since you change your mind, you've already got such specialists that let's not bid on it anymore. On the other hand, populism, of course, that if you were in charge, you'd give everything to everyone. What's that? The left won't do anything. You just didn't have to shut down the economy. The Confederacy is the only party that's criticized it all along. Then you made us crazy, and now you're surprised: oh, we're opening up the economy. And why are we suddenly opening up the economy? Because you listened, the businessmen yelled at you, because you're smart now. But who said it was a bad idea from the start? Well, we did. Thank you for granting us one half of the room. We're waiting for the other half of the room. Any aid instruments, if we are going this way, should not, of course, be so casuistically regulated, this was mentioned here, based on PKD, but on some objective criterion, a drop in turnover, a zone in which the company operates - whether red or green, etc. Simple solutions. Otherwise, it still turns out that the help is received not by those who need it most, but by those who are closest to the minister or the president, because the minister, the president, often has the same idea about the economy as from this poem: "And here go the tights, look to the right, look to the left." And seeing - they see everything separately that the house... that Stasiek... that the horse... that the tree... It seems to you that when you close one business, this is the only business you close. On the other hand, there were sometimes proposals that we could base this on the PKD. No, when we close restaurants, we close suppliers at the same time, those who supply, those who, I don't know, service equipment, for example. At the restaurant. They won't be able to make money either. There are plenty of such examples. We put the stick in the spokes, and we don't know where it's gonna end. It's a wave, it's a connected vessel system. You think you're shutting down one business and you're shutting down half the economy. So it seemed to you that if you're eliminating fur farms, then a few thousand workers are involved, and then, soon enough, it turns out how many things depend on it, what part of a wide chain it is. So no, that's not how it works. Turns out you can move into a trance on this platform. The economy is far too complicated to be managed by politicians. Instead of manually controlling the economy, we must immediately radically reduce and simplify taxes, as many other countries have done. Australia and Sweden are currently carrying out thorough tax reforms, Germany and the Czech Republic are temporarily reducing VAT. What are we gonna do? And we donate sugar tax, power charge, trade tax, fiscal bills. What, who's gonna stop the rich guy? Right? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u528	Thank you very much. Now two sentences. I have to react. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u529	I won't bother you anymore, but, ladies and gentlemen, I must respond because we cannot keep silent if the obvious facts are being lied to. There were 27,000 in October. infections per day, and that is why it was decided that we need to make decisions about sharpenings. November and December have passed, and in mid-January there are about 4 and 5 thousand infections. The principle: disinfection, distance, mask works all over the world, across Europe, and only this results in a reduction in the number of infections and deaths. But not shutting down the economy. Prime Minister Morawiecki, announcing the extension of the restrictions on 18 January, said very clearly: the number of infections is falling, we are observing what is happening in Poland every day, we are observing what is happening in Europe in connection with the third wave of pandemics. He said very clearly that the opening up of the economy, removing the sharpening is at the heart of the government's interest (the bell) and that such talks will take place. But one thing is still emphasized: subject to the consent of the health inspector and the protection of the health and life of Poles. We are not talking about the health and life of Poles, it has not happened once in this Chamber, we are talking about entrepreneurs. So let's look at these two values. The basic value, human right is the right to life and health. And that's what we all have to defend, even if we live more modestly, even if we live harder. Here we must show solidarity and unity. And I very much urge you to do so. Surely these shields, which are proposed, shields, may still be changed, because by June the Prime Minister, the Council of Ministers, in accordance with the regulation, may extend these forms. All this is monitored and directed in such a way that we do not close the workplace so that we do not fire people and that the economic reflection in the quarters of III and IV takes place as soon as possible. And I firmly believe that we can achieve that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u530	Thank you very much, Member. Is Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk in the Chamber? There it is. I'm here, I'm here. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u531	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's an hour. 1.30, at 1:30 a.m. we are talking about the most important, seems, a problem that concerns Poles and Poles. This discussion should take place several hours earlier and with a large representation, with all due respect to the Minister. The fact that the Members say that someone is taking them seriously is only visible on the right side of the room. And about this cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen, all the clubs... We represent the club. ...they wanted to talk, I remember when the first shield was presented. The Confederation had some very good proposals, the Left had some good proposals, the Coalition of Poland also. You should have sat down and taken advantage of these proposals. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today we'd be in a completely different situation. You've got to be kidding me. I encourage... Mrs. Member! I sat very quietly and listened, as you said, even when you read the bill, and then you commented on the bill. I'm sorry. That's not the point, because it really puts the High House at risk of being funny. Today we want to talk about a really important problem, I repeat once again. We've been sitting here for hours. 9:00 a.m. These proposals - don't be offended by the country - which is here, and these conclusions come from employers who come to our offices. Ours, too. Sometimes they cry because they lose their fortunes, fight to survive for themselves and for their employees. I have one more request for the Minister. I will not speak ill of you, Minister, because I deeply believe that he has noble ideas, although perhaps he has little influence on these noble ideas. Change the narrative. Sometimes I think you guys are out of the picture, and you say, "We did it, we did it, billions went there, billions went there." Life is different. If you don't believe it, go to the entrepreneurs, don't be afraid of the entrepreneurs, try talking to them. Today is such a time that - I think so, but not just me - some industries can be opened up in the sanitary regime. Entrepreneurs are not against the government. Entrepreneurs resent the fact that, first, their companies have been shut down, second, they are charged with all kinds of taxes, thirdly, they have no means to survive, and the worst thing yet, they have a health care centre or the police. Today, ladies and gentlemen, I will repeat this once again: the fact that so many Members are left shows that this problem, the problem of Polish entrepreneurship, is that there is no more important issue, today support for entrepreneurs should be a Polish state rhyme. I'd like to end by thanking the marshal. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much for this open debate, although it is not easy. But it's not the right thing... I've never imagined I'd have a minute, less than a minute, and I'd have to get off this platform. I thought that if we met here, we would be ready to work all the time so that we could exchange views so that we could process projects that would be good for the whole of the Republic and not for one political party. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u532	Thank you very much, sir. I would now like to ask Mr Tuduja, the Confederation, to ask Mr Krzysztof Tuduja.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u533	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We do have 1:30 in the morning. I look, I no longer see any journalists in the Chamber, not many Members, the Deputy Prime Minister, as it has already been noticed, clearly there is no - it is clearly a matter of hiding the subject of this debate from the public. Ladies and gentlemen, does anyone present in the Chamber think that the events of this debate will be on TVP tomorrow? Surely you will not find this state, that is why it is at night, to hide this fact, which I think is already certain and there is no doubt that the Government of Law and Justice does not understand entrepreneurs, does not understand how it works. Here we are faced with such emotional blackmail that care, life (the bell), as if we and these entrepreneurs did not think about care, about life, about older people. It's just that the cure shouldn't be worse than the disease. The point is not to fire a baby with a bath. People in these sectors who are closed have learned to function in the sanitary regime. In addition, it is important to give people a choice as to whether they decide to go to a restaurant or not in the face of this situation. You're going to vaccinate, and you don't believe in the effectiveness of this vaccine, since we still don't have clear signals about what's going to happen. Mandates already need to be adopted Right away, you can't appeal. I mean, you can appeal to the court, but not until after the party, after the payment. That's sad, because I understand that money is being raised for projects like 14 for pensioners. I wish my grandmothers, my grandparents all the best, and I respect the elderly very much, but what you're doing is just buying an electorate. It's terrible what you said. The truth can be terrible. Fifteen, sixteen, seventeen. With all due respect to the elderly, to the retirees, but what you're doing is reprehensible, really. The question to the Minister: Is it true that if an entrepreneur has 10 employees for a contract-order, he will not get aid from the current system of support, and if he has 10 employees for contract-ordering and one part-time, he will get it? It's such a specific question. The government likes taxes, right? Every government likes taxes. The Government of Law and Justice is very fond of taxes. Question: "Can we count on the opening of these industries on February 1?" If it's open, you'll have more at your disposal, so it's in your best interest. There were threats here, there were different behaviors, and I would add one more request, a request on behalf of these entrepreneurs, that you let people earn, because the effects are really wide. There is cancer diagnosis, and there are other things that are incalculable, and unfortunately also mental situations, and unfortunately suicides. All this must be taken into account, not just one factor, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, I would like to join you again in thanking the marshal for the fact that this debate may have taken place. At the same time, I would also like to say that I understand, ladies, and that for a moment the ladies left the room because the total opposition with its famous charm showed what it can do, but also the question is: Where are the Members of the PiS, where are the men of the PiS? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u534	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u535	Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left, I join in thanking you for allowing a reliable, perhaps not easy, but a real debate about the state of the Polish economy, taking into account workers and entrepreneurs to the greatest extent. Now a few words of answer for the Member, because it is worth correcting what has happened here, and it has not been true. You said you wanted to shut down the economy at first, because the most important thing was to stop the transmission of the virus. I will remind you of what the well-known Member, then Minister Łukasz Szumowski, said about these masks: the masks do not help, take them off. Let me remind you of what Mateusz Morawiecki said in July 2020: we won the pandemic. Let me remind you that when the kids went to school on 1 September (the bell), the disease was 500, not 25,000. Let me remind you that on September 14th, we said that the transmission of the virus would expand and the disease would be 20,000, because that's what the specialists said. And I will remind you of what Prime Minister Morawiecki said from that speaker, turning towards the Left: you panic, you panic again. At the end of this debate, such a calm calculation will allow you to understand that we have been here for so long because we want to expose what is not true, but on the other hand we say it with concern to all those people who, if they do not see us, sometimes cry or very often stand in front of the mirror because they have nothing to live for. It is important for us in such a debate, Commissioner, to be fully aware that we are not talking to each other here, but we are talking to people who treat the pandemic not only as a health problem, but often as a problem of their lives, their families' lives, lack of financial resources. That's what we think, too. Responsibility to Poland is responsibility to Poles. Also the responsibility of the opposition. It is not worth treating the Sejm as a place where we are lying. We should be talking about facts. We agree. Mr. Messengers! Remember that today you represent the two parliamentary club, which has a majority in this room, but that does not mean that the two of us at the 233-person club know everything, because Poland is not just a PiS. Poland is our good and it is worth remembering that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u536	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Barbara Nowack will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u537	Mr. Marshal! Firstly, thank you for the possibility of a longer debate, for the opportunity to speak. Members remember exactly what Parliament looked like a few years ago. It's for me, the messengers for the first time, an absolutely new experience, that you can talk to each other. In spite of all the harsh words, I appreciate that you wanted to be here, that you were two - plus Mrs Borowiak - people who were interested in this debate. I wish we could understand each other. Our allegations are mostly about a government that didn't want to appear. But if we're talking about facts... Mrs Wargock told me who ended the epidemic. Remember, Mrs Morawiecki, on July 1st, when Prime Minister Morawiecki announced the end of the pandemic and said that the virus should not be feared, should we go to vote? Do you remember that? Then opening schools, then a wave of disease. And that's where you're right that you started talking about the lockdown, except on December 1st, the Prime Minister left, and you know what he said? That we're winning the virus. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Then he came out with the charts on which he showed entrepreneurs, citizens and citizens how the economy would be shut down. The country is not a game. If the Prime Minister speaks, he speaks on behalf of the Republic of Poland. He can't go out and splash something he can't keep up with. He showed a clear graph: if there's a green zone, it all works, if there's a yellow zone, then we're going to make these sharpenings, if there's a red one, then there's a warning point, and there's a total lockdown. And on December 28th, after Christmas, after the trade galleries could have been opened in the meantime, what happened? The economy has been frozen. You see, health is fundamental, and contrary to what the men of the Confederacy have imagined, we don't think the lockdown fair was a mistake. On the other hand, we believe that if you decide to tell entrepreneurs: you cannot do your business if you tell people: you cannot do your job, then you are responsible for this person's existence. It is known that the Polish state will not be able to afford 100% reimbursement of costs lost. That's what you want. On the other hand, we say that this aid must be equal and fair. You know, Prime Minister Gowin announced on 11 January that he would support the tourism industry in the south of Poland, that he would help lifts, restaurants through support for local governments. It ended with the fact that he chose specific municipalities that are above 500 m, and there will be support. Tell me, actually, I would also like to ask the Minister, but to be honest, ladies have shown greater interest and competence in this debate than unfortunately you have in the Undersecretary of State... How can you? ...what's the difference between the owner of the lift or the employee of the lift in Sopot and Zakopane? Because one of them has a chance to be supported by the state by the fact that the owner can get a tax exemption, so maybe you can keep the place of work, or that owner can survive... He'll be able to use it. ...and the guy who's unlucky to be in Pomerania, in Sopot, in Kashubia, in Koszalin... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] He can't, no. Madam, please read the regulation announced by Prime Minister Gowin on 11 January. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Dear Member, I assure you that if you wish to speak, I will give it. Remember, people are watching this, too, and they know... Of course, there are others who reach each of us, but as parliamentarians, as politicians, we share responsibility for the shape of the state and how citizens and citizens look at it. We can arrange cabarets here, we can be insulted, we can use tricks and eristic games to turn a 10-minute question into a speech, we can do it, only at the end are people - people of work, people who build the Republic. And if we are not able to find out - you too, although you may have some other channels - here, in this House, from the Prime Minister, from the Minister responsible for development, work and technology, what's next, this is not serious information. I appreciate you ladies sitting down until 2:00 a.m., and I'm sorry the rest of you weren't interested. Don't feel sorry for us. We have every right to feel that way, but believe me, this isn't about us. It's not about you or me, it's about people who are desperate today, they don't know who to turn to, they see holes in the shield, they write letters -- they write letters to the government, to companies, to institutions. They don't get an answer. And it seemed that today's debate was an opportunity. Unfortunately, it did not turn out to be an opportunity because from the government we received quite ignorant, four-minute information from the Minister that it was awesome. So we keep saying it's not cool and it's not gonna be great. It could be better if you wanted to have a normal dialogue, because that's what Parliament is all about. Unfortunately, and you know it very well, this normal dialogue is not possible with you, with your formation, because you do not want to listen. You do not want to listen - not even to us - to these people, and the good of the Republic depends on them, because they apply to GDP, and from GDP we have money for social assistance, for security, for the functioning of the state, for defence. We have to take care of this. Ha, ha, ha! It's better to do it together, no offense. And don't laugh, sometimes it's worth thinking about something in common. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u538	Thank you very much. Mrs Wargock.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u539	Thank you very much. Another ad vocem, because once again the information is false, ripped out of context. You remember that July 1st was the presidential election. You also remember that we have slowed down the number of infections in Poland. Nobody said at the time... On the contrary, in the election discussion, there was a proposal from the Platform to translate the elections into autumn. Very clearly Law and Justice defined that this is irresponsible, because epidemics have their waves and another wave may be in autumn. If the Prime Minister encouraged us to take part in the election, he said that there were fewer infections, that if we went to the store for groceries, we could go vote, throw the ballot in the ballot box. Those were the times. I will remind you that the elections were organised in the full sanitary regime (The Bell) and because of the elections there was no increase in disease. As usual, we've done a good job. We have stability in the state, we are after the presidential election, we have not spread the pandemic. It is absolutely not true that anyone in December said there was no pandemic. It was a very difficult time for Poland... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I'm asking you to do this... unless I have the whole statement because I don't want it taken out of the context of my sentences. I'll read it to you right away. I am very pleased that at the moment, in her last speech, she said that this could be done better, because many of you and your fellow Members, in their speeches during the debate, defined very clearly: you have done nothing, you have not done anything to anyone... No, unfortunately, there was such aggression and such lies. But you weren't there when I said it. I was, I heard everything. Thank you very much. People are the most important. If we are together, if we jointly bear the burden of the pandemic, we will certainly succeed in all that is a good future for Poland and Poles. The fate of every family, every citizen, is very important to us. We lean on all these difficulties and try to help. And we're helping. You're accusing us of talking about big numbers. But if you are talking about a particular man who has financial problems, and we are saying that we saved 5 million jobs, we are saying: we have happily helped 5 million Poles get paid, maybe a little lower, but you know that losing a job is a huge blow to the family, to a man, that is sometimes taking away the desire to live. We saved these jobs and we're still saving them. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] If this is another declaration of cooperation and calming emotions, I accept such a declaration from the Member, and I would like to say so, I will speak with all of you in an atmosphere of cooperation, because it can really serve Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u540	Thank you very much, Member. I now ask you to ask Mr Stefan Krajewski, the Parliamentary Club of the Coalition of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u541	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister, the Government: When will you finally start acting responsibly in the fight against pandemics? Today, this festival of hypocrisy, this ladle dance, which on this side has been done since the beginning, is really beyond the imagination we've had so far. Surprisingly, it is a long discussion. There are a lot more Members on this side of the room, despite the late hours. You'll listen to yours, you'll leave the on-call people behind and you won't talk anymore. Our questions are ignored. The answers to our interpelations are laconic, they differ from what we ask - that's, just to fill out. When we ask, it's not good. Yesterday I heard the accusation that we were making amendments to the (Bingle) budget, and that's not good either, because we're destroying government work. No, we just want to help and fix what you've ruined from the beginning. You bounce from wall to wall: either you close the woods or you close the restaurants. You were able to divide, calculate the area in churches, in shopping malls, you can't calculate the area in hotels. The hotels are empty. Holiday resorts are standing. People were waiting for them to make some gold at some point, because the winter came, and they got the bills. No, that's where everyone's gonna get infected. But on the other hand, it doesn't bother you to drive all the buses as activists of the United Right and open objects, cut the ribbons of these investments, which often we, representatives of today's opposition, started earlier as local government representatives. And today you accuse We still don't want to cooperate. Begin cooperating, don't just preach your successes here. We hear about them all the time, but when you go to the communal Poland, to the county Poland, you can't see it. You're talking today about how there's no money for that, but you're running your politics all the time. The nationalisation of hospitals - this must be said loudly and clearly. You've already shown how you nationalized agricultural advice, then Polish Waters - you've established an institution that doesn't work today. And that's what the Poles see. What you're getting at, you're gonna ruin it, but if there's a good idea of opposition, you're gonna put it in a drawer, you're gonna move commas, semicolons, dots, and next week you're gonna take it out as your project, and you're gonna say it's a great solution, nobody's ever figured it out. You cannot afford to say, yes, it is this particular Member, the specific representatives of this group, who have invented this and it must be implemented, whether it is from the right or left side of the room. Either there's gonna be this cooperation or she's not. Take an example from opposition marshals, because when there is a representative of the Polish Coalition, the Left, the Civic Coalition, this debate can be held. What can you do? Turn off the mike. This is the best job you've ever had. Here even the clock is counting, and already Marshal Terlecki... [[Game in the O.R.]] May I ask my fellow Member for silence? ...turns off the microphones. As you speak, you resent not listening to you. When someone else talks, you guys are like bribes at the market -- there's a debate all over the place, and you don't listen to what anybody else says. It's a good thing we're having this discussion. She could be here by the hour. 9 a.m. be led, after all they pay us all for it, not everyone has to sit 24 hours in this room, because there are representatives who can speak at particular points. Mr. Marshal, thank you for this discussion today, and I hope there are more. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u542	Thank you very much. If there are no more people willing to discuss it, I now ask Mr Mark Niebłużak, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology, to answer the questions asked. Excuse me, Minister. Someone from my girlfriends or friends left their glasses. Black with a silver frame. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] If it is possible to ask Mrs Baś Nowacka to give an answer now to the Minister... We're not on Basia. You can scratch my name, but you can't scratch my name. I didn't call you by your first name. May I, Marshal? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u543	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for your speeches and your questions. Of course, thank you most for these substantive ones, for these non-essential ones, thank you a little less. As for another such courtesy thing, thank you very much to those of you who are in the courtroom with us now, because believe me, there is something psychic about it, when Members of the Catons come in here and scream, or at any rate so loud that there is no real debate. Whose faces? Catons. The Older Caton, the Younger Caton - there were two of them. They say that there is no debate, and then they leave right after the question is asked. Therefore, thank you very much to those who are here with us at this late hour as well. There's one thing. One I'd like to draw attention to, too. I have also spoken here many times as if in such a format and I have to say that for the first time I met the accusation that I was sticking to the time frame. I understand that this time there's such a formula that we don't stick to these frameworks. Good. I will now move on to the subject of this debate. There's a few things I think we need to put down, isn't there? There are several statements that have been made in the statements of various parliamentarians, which differ from the facts. For example, it is not true that one-man economic activity cannot benefit from aid. They can. There was also a statement concerning subsidies from the PFR shield. The government has passed a resolution on her dismissal, right? So that it's not true that she wasn't given up or subject to redemption. From this spring PFR shield, these subsidies have been discontinued. There were also questions or such statements: you do not help laundry, the market industry, photographers. Nor is this, strictly speaking, based on facts, because these industries are actually covered by the aid. There was also a statement: you do not talk to business organisations. Believe me - I speak for myself, for the resort where I work - that we talk very much to business organisations. If you don't want to believe me, I'm sure you know the representatives of these organizations, especially the representative ones, so ask them. So make sure you confirm this, please, if we're talking to them about the solutions we're proposing. There was such a voice, there were several such voices, which also talked about why in Poland it is not the same as in other countries. You have said this for both the sharpenings that have been introduced and the aid. As far as help is concerned, I've talked about it before. If it compares percentage to GDP aid already granted to entrepreneurs in Poland, we are one of the countries that really lead the European Union in this respect. 7% GDP, right? Think about it. I'm talking to all of you who are calling this here now: more, more, not enough. Like in a month or two, and I'm sure that's gonna happen, there's gonna be a debate. If you have a discussion about the deficit, remember that voice you were taking today, remember it, because I think there may be some sort of inconsistencies here. The example of Germany fell. Ladies and gentlemen, behind our western border - there was also one such question here - there are closed restaurants, recreation centers, cultural facilities, retail, except for grocery stores, drugstores, pharmacies. There's a federal system, so it's different between the states, but I know that. In Bavaria, the authorities are considering introducing a curfew at all. You know that there's even a curfew in many countries. Really, the rules introduced in Poland are not the most restrictive. They're not the most liberal either, and I'm aware of that. It's about helping. Poland is in such a ranking conducted by one of the schools or institutes belonging to the University of Oxford classified in respect of precisely such strictness (The Bell) sharpening on the 31st place - I understand, Mr. Marshal, that I can still speak - so let us not fall into demagogy here. The question was whether there was such a question of support for mountain communities, which are mountain communities, where we got it, what is this definition, why only there. Firstly, the definition of these mountain communities in this resolution of the Council of Ministers, if I remember correctly, is based simply on how mountainness, mountain village defines the GUS, and it does not define it from today or there, I do not know, for a month or for a year, only for a very, very long time. Secondly, not seeing the difference between what is the situation of the tourism industry, say, e.g. in the coastal municipalities, and what is the situation in the mountains, in my opinion... You have to close your eyes so you don't see the difference. You're welcome. Data relating to... It is obvious. In Poland, tourism in the mountains generally takes place mainly during the winter season. Then they have the season, then they earn very well. By the sea in the summer. In the summer by the Polish sea, there were many people on the Polish lakes. Those people who do tourist activities there are in a better position than those who do tourist activities, run it, live in mountain areas. It seems pretty obvious to me, really, and it doesn't require any expertise. A statement has been made, which I believe is in those areas which you have had the opportunity to call erystics: you are the first government that has led to a recession in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, do you realize that you attribute... I didn't say that. ...at this moment, the incredible power of the government, right? You know there's a recession in the European Union, too? Do you also believe that the Polish government has led to recession in other EU countries? Really? Ladies and gentlemen, as I told the marshal at some point, I realise that the boundaries of political discourse in Poland are very broad at present, so let's put it this way, but let's try not to expand them even more, right? That's what I think, and there were these slogans: lies, one even stronger... Really, it seems to me, however, is overstepping certain such boundaries, even this debate here. Could you talk about businessmen, not... There was one reference to my particular interview statement. This interview, this statement specifically concerned support for the maintenance of jobs, which comes from the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund. What was she referring to? Because here, too, the Member said: you lied or changed your mind because you had another boss. It is known that the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund is based on contributions from employees, i.e. from employers, but on the basis of employees, and it is known that he would already be exhausted if the only source of these subsidies were the FGŚP. So what did I mean? The fact that it will be supplemented with the COVID fund or the anti-COVID fund, which is one of those funds that provides public aid. This is something, you know, in fact it's such a technocratic statement, so separate from political disputes that I'm surprised that something like this is suddenly being used as something, I would say, a mace in this discussion. Referring to erystics, I'm going to say that some of you come and say, "How little concrete are there, others come and say, "Do you know that people are hiding behind the numbers you gave?" Those numbers I'm giving you, they're concrete. After all, it is clear that I will not come and tell: Anna's situation is this, Mr. Tomasz is this, Mr. Zbigniew is this. From the start, I said I wasn't gonna draw a pink picture. I tried very hard not to paint it pink, I told you straight away that there are situations, there are sectors that have very big problems, very big problems. I provided data on these numbers, I provided data on how many entrepreneurs in Poland plan to reduce their employees' salaries or layoffs. On the other hand, we cannot close our eyes to the fact that there are entrepreneurs in parallel - fortunately there are more of them from an economic point of view - who are planning employment and who are planning to raise their employees' wages. I absolutely agree with the voice which here also sounded in many statements that it is very important, perhaps even the most important thing to save jobs, workers, their situation. And I agree with that, I absolutely agree with that. One of the questions was: What did you do to help the workers? I would like to point out that for example. there is no longer a condition for a reduction in wages in the industry shield to benefit from employment subsidies. Please also bear in mind that this model, which the State of the Left most often criticizes, lowers the employee's salary in order to benefit from the aid, this is the infamous 20.40-40, which is said to be one of the biggest hits of German exports. This is the German model of saving jobs, which was adapted in Poland by means of FGŚP subsidies, the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund, in order to save jobs. I know it's extremely technical, I know it's gonna be a while. Madam or someone else can say: you do not see the drama because of it, you do not see any specific person. But, ladies and gentlemen, if we are to talk about state policy in a rational way, if you say that you want a serious debate, not a discussion and an emotional game, then really see the mechanisms of aid and you will know them by the fruits. The fact that unemployment has not increased significantly in Poland, there is no wave of bankruptcy - there is no, the data do not indicate it at all - shows that this aid is effective. And now you say, "But can you guarantee that they won't be here in a month, two, three or four?" Of course not. Just like you ask questions like this when it's over. No, I think there's a man on this planet who can tell you when the pandemic is over. I don't know if you've read the reports today that a new strain of the virus has been found in South Africa, which is more concerned with doctors than the strain most often referred to, British or English. These are all situations absolutely for us, not just here, but on this planet at all, on this scale, unprecedented and extremely, extremely dynamic, unpredictable. And neither you know the answer to these questions, nor we, and I don't want to pretend here that yes, we know when it's gonna end. Of course we don't know. We're trying to vaccinate, just like the whole world does. As you look at the rate of vaccination in Poland, you can see that they are in the EU average, and you know well that they depend on supplies that are contracted at EU level. At the same time introduced restrictions and sharpenings, however painful... I am aware that at an individual level for those entrepreneurs who are in the most affected sectors, this is a tragedy of life. I know that. They're texting us, too. I'm meeting them. But look, other countries are doing the same thing. If you accuse the government of so much evil will, consider whether this means that the German government also wants to harm its entrepreneurs, Italians, etc. I mean... Yes. Okay. Yeah, that's right. Okay, I'm sorry, 'cause I want to go through the notes again. By the way, I remember better the people who spoke later than the ones who said before, but they were, for example. Two such questions, someone raised such questions, There was a question of one of the Members of the Left who spoke about aid for leasing. I would very much like to invite you to join me. I know there are forms of leasing aid at the Industrial Development Agency, invite me to a meeting, let's talk about it. I think some forms may be available. Of course, I do not know the specific situation of those entrepreneurs to whom the Member referred, but perhaps something will be found for them. Similarly, the issue which also appeared twice - in one case there was also a letter - concerning aid to NGOs engaged in economic activities. I accept. This is, I think, an important issue, let's lean on it, let's talk about it. I understand there may be some technical problems, too. The question is whether they have business status or not, but let's talk about it. This is definitely a subject that requires you to lean over it. There was a question of cooperation on the shields. I spent the most time working on the first and fourth, spring and late spring, and I am convinced, I remember exactly the committee in the Seym and in the Senate, in both cases we accepted several dozen opposition amendments. Very often - and I admit that too, and it may be that you Members are frustrated in such a formula - the amendment appeared for the first time in a Parliamentary committee in some specific form and I or the government then said: let's think about it, we need some time, maybe we need to work it out, and then this amendment came back in the Senate... You rejected them. ...and was accepted as a senate. When the Senate resolution returned to the Sejm, it was the Senate amendment accepted. There was also this voice, and this is the voice at the beginning of the debate: you chickened out from the Americans. I would like to say to you that - let us remind you exactly what he wanted and what he calls cowardice towards the Americans - this idea was a tough one, that is. at the level of the law, but later the regulation, on the basis of this law, later issued a regulation... is about entering into B2B relationships between entrepreneurs and establishing margins on this market. I would say that would be a very strong intervention in market relations. In my opinion, such relationships are sometimes extremely justified, but I think they are very unique. After the discussion, in line with the promise we made at the meeting of the Sejm committee, with the president of the UOKiK on the situation in this market, we felt that there was no justification to go so strongly with the intervention of the state that, so to speak, hard, in relations between business. I don't know if calling it cowardice before the United States is an adequate definition of this situation. Another thing. This claim also comes back here: postpone lease payments and in the bank. But I'm sorry, these are also B2B relationships. I understand that you just want us to force banks and tenants to stop acting rationally or to give up their profits. Yes. There, one of your fellow Members confirms that he would like to. That's what my petition was about in the spring. Here's what I'm gonna say. I think it's a very controversial decision to force the law... There was a shield in it. There wasn't, there wasn't a solution. Credit vacations were always voluntary and the only exception is when someone is unemployed. Some European countries have introduced this. But given also the scale of the increase in unemployment in Poland, the Member can certainly answer the question that it is not a huge burden for the banking system. But at the moment, if you were to say whether here, the truth, the state as High House decided that yes, all leasings or all credit agreements are postponed for a few months, I am not sure what the banking stability committee would have to say about it, and that is euphemism. Good. I'd like to move on. There was help. Why is help for one month? I think this is where one of your fellow Members has already talked about it, so I'm just going to say it again. There is a regulation of the Council of Ministers. In this law, it is possible to extend aid by means of regulations of the Council of Ministers, and such a regulation has been issued for a further 2 months. If the pandemic situation requires this, we will continue this aid, and if not, probably not. But remember, it's the right thing to do. in the sense of responsibility for the state of public finances. I'm looking at these notes one at a time. I'm sorry, but it was a long discussion and there were a lot of voices. There was a question of one of your fellow Members from the Confederation - forgive me, I do not remember again - whether it is true that if someone has an economic activity and hires a person on civil law contracts, he cannot benefit from help. Maybe if he's paying the ZUS. So if it's a civil law contract that's being terminated, then he's entitled to help, whether it's from a PFR shield, whether it's from a co-financing from the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund. If they're not deleted, they're not. If you ask why this is the case, I will say that because it is very often the case that one person provides its services to many entrepreneurs or in many places on the basis of civil law contracts, which means that he has several orders for example, and only at one point is the contribution paid. We thought it was fairer when help is directed right where the contribution is being paid. I would also like to say and assure you that, in general, we in the Ministry of Development really are in favour of freezing the Polish economy as far as possible, of course in DDM security. But I think we can all agree that at this stage, especially since we just opened up in I-III schools, and we all remember that in the autumn this opening of schools was one of those factors... That's where you have different opinions. ...which translated into an increase in disease... Let's see what happens. So far, the situation is looking good in Poland, but you also know how dynamic it is, and you can see it in other countries as well. Remember how it was in the fall, remember how it is now. And again, it seems to me that this is a fact that should be independent of what one of us has here, in this room, political sympathies. I would like to finish one more point, because it was also very little specific. I'm not going to quote those statistics that I quoted from the very beginning, out of respect for you either. But I would like to conclude by quoting some statistics on aid, as promised, that I will try to spread my statement in such a way that I will say more about help at the end. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that this aid resulting from the government's recent activities is already on the way. We have a record of over 4,000. the companies received it, of which 1,100 gastronomy points, 530 hotels. Is that enough? Does it relieve the pain or reduce the tragedy of these people? I realize that's not true. Why are you being ironic? But the aid must also be made according to the budgetary possibilities we have, and we are trying to do so. I ask you again to compare us with other countries in terms of GDP. You will see that, in terms of sharpening, we are not a country that has introduced the harshest sharpenings, and in terms of assistance, you will see this country, we are one of the countries that is more generous to their employees and to their entrepreneurs. I'm sure I missed someone. Excuse me. This format also forces a bit, because this discussion continues and continues and continues, and the time of my speech even now I have exceeded perhaps four times, which I have never done before, and I am not sure that this is such a reason for glory, but so be it. If you just have the feeling that the longer the quantity goes into quality, well, I'll gladly submit to that format now. So, the ones I left out, I'm sorry. There have been a lot of questions beyond the limits of this discussion. I assume they'll be sent to us in writing, too. I would also encourage all Members who would like to ask questions. It seems to me that the answers to the speeches we give are not, so to speak, given with disregard, but we are always trying to treat these questions with due respect. Thank you very much again. I appreciate you guys being here, you've lasted so long. Thank you, Marshal and High Izbo.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u544	We, too, thank the Minister very much for his comprehensive response. Mrs Barbara Nowack's brief correction.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u545	Sir! I think your colleagues made a dramatic mistake and didn't tell you what government information was all about. What you've done now... I appreciate you answering some of the questions, and I would very much ask you to answer as far as possible all the questions that have been asked, in writing, including, of course, the questions of your messengers. On the other hand, Minister, if you believe that your role is to come and instruct Parliament what the debate is like... Hey, buddy, maybe just a minute so the minister can listen. ...I wanted to tell you that we were expecting specific information. Your job wasn't Q&A, it was to show the government what you did, what you were going to do. We also asked specific questions when you will unfreeze the industries, which, or whether you are looking for a revision of your actions. Unfortunately, these questions were not answered by you. I'm just gonna finish with one point. You know, the Kashubian communities are poor, some of them actually live sometimes with some tourism and the owner of the Kashubian lift has the right to expect (the bell) that you will help him, as well as the owner anywhere else. But do you know what the worst thing about this solution is, this one solution? The fact that those who are in Podkarpacie, and are supposed to be a little bit lower, at an altitude of 450 m, do not get this help either. Although these communities are poorer than Zakopane, there is no help there. Think about who you're addressing, because you can't just assume Pomerania - rich, Zakopane - poor, or: people come here or there. Lean on the data. We're asking you to. And the next time you visit us - because we already know each other, even for a long time - I hope that your information will be complete information and then maybe there will be less nervous questions and the High House will feel less ignored by government representatives. [[Applause]] There's nothing you can count on, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u546	Thank you very much. You're still an MP. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u547	Dear Marshal, I would like to thank the Minister for staying here and for this conversation with us. However, Commissioner, I will stand up for the Minister. The Deputy Prime Minister hid behind the Minister, because the Deputy Prime Minister should be here and have a debate with us, and perhaps he did not tell the Minister exactly what his role is here. Therefore, it is to the Minister's appreciation that he was with us and held this debate. This is his job. On the other hand, we accept completely negative that the Deputy Prime Minister has not found the time or has not asked us to postpone this debate, for example. for tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u548	Thank you very much. Dear Members, The essence of parliamentarians is debate, and I am convinced that we have conducted this debate in a very reliable manner today. I would like to apologize very much to these Members, who I have offended - I have tried not to do so - and to thank all those who have persevered and witnessed respect for Polish entrepreneurs and workers working in these companies. Thank you very much to all your parliamentarians, and I think that such debates should take place more often, because they could certainly contribute a lot. And we thank Marshal Zgorzelski. Bravo! [[Applause]] I think it is also worth thanking the two Members who have endured to the end. But also to the ladies who are sitting with us. Yes, sir. Only if you'll allow me... The discussion is closed. A request for rejection was made in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal at the next session of the Sejm. We have one more point... Thank you very much. [[Game in the O.R.]] On this we exhausted the agenda of the 25th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. And the statements? I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Can you identify those who are left... There it is. Great. In that case... Once we've made it, Mr. Marshal. ...we very much ask Mrs Monica Falej. Thank you kindly, thank you for your patience. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u549	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The government, aware of the seriousness of the situation and the recession, promised support for municipalities - but only for mountain communities. On behalf of the local governments of Warmia, Mazur and Powiśla, I appeal to you that the Polish government should support all municipalities affected by the difficult situation. I call for the same aid mechanisms, i.e. to enable local authorities to redeem their real estate taxes and to compensate municipalities themselves at 80%. income lost. I support all appeals, such as the Commune of Kurzętnik. There's a ski slope there too. January 15th this year. He called on the Minister for Labour, Development and Technology to help and to notice the problem. I believe that today, in the name of fighting the pandemic and protecting the Polish economy and the financial condition of local governments, we will take solidarity measures and no one will feel abandoned or left out in the face of the crisis. Prime Minister! I call for support for Warmia, Mazur and Powiśle on behalf of their own self-government of these regions, but also residents and residents of these lands. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u550	Thank you very much, Member. Is Mrs Beata Arrow in the room? Mr Mariusz Kałużny? Mrs Elizabeth Duda? Mrs Margaret Chmiel? Mr Jan Szopiński? I'm here. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u551	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We have an hour. 2.30 and therefore this will be a shortened form of my statement. Our country, like all of Europe, is in a situation where hundreds of thousands of companies will not survive without real, tangible and immediate state aid. Many companies have received such support, and many are waiting for it. Hotels, gyms, fitness clubs are waiting for help. We hear announcements about the liquidation of up to 2/3 of small businesses in many industries. Eliminate, among other things. barbershops, cosmetics and many others with a similar business profile. However, we have one field of activity that, despite many trials, could not count on any help for months. I'd like to talk about non-public educational institutions. In my region, I am witnessing the tragic situation of such facilities. Schools with a 70-year tradition that survived all the turmoil of history that taught the next generations of Poles today sell their assets and announce liquidation. First, our country had a problem with the classification of these institutions into the category of entrepreneurs. The problem was repeatedly signalled and never seriously leaned over. The Kuriozal responses to the next interpellations show the absolute immatureness of those who sit in our ministries. In response to Interpellation 5857, the Ministry informs that yes, these institutions have limited recruitment of pupils, but the resulting losses should compensate for the savings on water and electricity consumption. Minister! The current used for the lighting of the lecture hall costs the same regardless of whether there are 10 or 25 people in the lecture room. The reality is that the actual recruitment of students in these institutions fell by 50%, to 60%. People in times of epidemics, when fate is at stake, do not take up adult education. Bets don't send their employees there for courses or training. Schools do not train teachers because they have been closed for a year. One of the outposts in the war. Kujawsko-Pomorskie, which I represent, came to me by people who are counting on such facilities to receive support. On the one hand, I would kindly ask Minister Czarnek, on the other hand, Prime Minister Gowin, to take these entities seriously, because believe me, the savings resulting from the reduction in water consumption in student toilets cannot compensate for the losses that these institutions have suffered. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u552	Thank you very much, sir. I would now ask that Mr Krzysztof Tuduj make a declaration to the House.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u553	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We live in times of pandemic, but there are other problems we must not forget. Today I would like to draw attention to the growing problem of wolves in Poland, expressing the hope that the Pole does not have to be wise only after the damage. Wolves throughout Poland have been protected since 1998. At that time, their population was estimated to be about 0.5 thousand. The protection of this species has had a good effect, the wolf population has begun to grow. Wolf territories have grown into significant areas of the country, basically all voivodships. After all, the wolf can travel dozens of kilometers a day, and the cubs being pushed out of the pack must seek new areas. We should lean on the topic of the size of the current population of wolves in Poland. From the available data for 2019 it appears that wolves are currently over 2 000, but how much exactly - we do not know. The fact is, the wolf is no longer rare. I was interested in the people of the Kłodzka Valley who noticed the problem. After conducting the query, it turned out that in many places of Poland we are already dealing with harassment of human habitat by wolves. From the last period: Swarzyz, Wiśniowo, Snow, Dębogóra, Trzebier, Dudeńce. The topic mainly concerns small towns, ladies and gentlemen, but not only. From Poznań over the last four years wolves have been caught several times. It gives people a sense of danger, which is, I think, completely understandable. The wolf's appetite and the number of wolf's mouths to feed seem crucial in this case. The wolf eats several kilos of meat a day, the pack averages 4 and 7 pieces, so that for such a pack the food is deer, lamb or two dogs a day. So far this problem has not been noticeable, but it seems to be already real in a large area of the country, especially when the density of wolves in a given area is greater. Wolves not only feed on wild game but also attack farm animals, dangerously approaching human habitations. For these losses farmers receive compensation, whose amounts have increased in recent years, which is also a confirmation not only of the increasing population of wolves, but also of the sedition of it. It is true that the number of wild game in Polish forests is large, but the wolf eats what he wants or what he is comfortable with. In addition, domestic dogs are being attacked, which wolves take as competitors. Not only do dogs die on chains, but also run freely, and even there are confirmed cases that the Pack disarmed the fence from the metal grid to kidnap the dog guarding the fence. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Just a minute. So I'm ahead of the Left here, who always tries to take care of the animals by putting the world on top of it. We can't give up fighting for the right of dogs to be uneatened by wolves. It may sound a little funny, but it's not for four-legged owners who are connected to their pets, and sometimes Dantesque scenes happen in front of them or they have to watch the effects of these scenes later. The risk to dogs is also associated with the risk to children who walk with them. It does not really have to be that only then will the government deal with the problem when tragedy occurs. There needs to be a solution to this problem, an adequate regulation, because the current rules seem insufficient. Surely the border for wolves should be the immediate vicinity of human dwellings. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u554	Thank you very much, sir. Now I ask you to make a statement by Mr Richard Wilczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u555	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The situation in which the hospital in Namysłów is located entitles me to ask Mr Konrad Gęsiarz, an old man of Namysłów. Mr. Starosto! Why did you allow the loss of the company Namysłowskie Centrum Zdrowia, which belongs to Namysłowski hospital, to double in 2020 and exceed PLN 5 million? Moreover, the failure to perform the contract this year was closer to the amount of PLN 4 million. Why didn't the company's owners react until the situation became critical in every way? Who is responsible for the fact that the Namysłów hospital in terms of financial condition has become a disgraceful exception in the region among the units converted into COVID hospitals or operating with COVID units? On the basis of conversations with the elders, I know that the mental hospital in this respect is an exception. In other hospitals, things didn't get any worse. Mr. Starosto! Who is responsible for the state in which Namysłowski hospital remained almost without medical staff, so that the restoration of the activities of individual branches is most difficult and with increased financial costs? Is it true that an annex to the management agreement was signed with the President of Namysłowskiego Centrum Zdrowia shortly before the appeal, who significantly increased the benefits for him due to the appeal? What amounts of money should he pay monthly and pay together Namysłowskie Centrum Zdrowia z ograniczenie z określienia z ex-Presidenty? How much did these amounts increase due to the conclusion of the annex? In other words, Mr. Old Town, reveal the form of the gold parachute sewn by the owners of the company for the former CEO. In what district or municipal unit and in what position will the former administrative director of the hospital be co-responsible for his critical situation be employed? Mr. Starosto! I trust that, in view of the characteristics of the company's actions, which, in the light of the applicable rules, is punishable, you will have no problem giving a comprehensive response to the community of Namysłów County. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u556	Thank you very much. I now ask that Mr Stefan Krajewski, the Coalition of Poland, make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u557	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I was provoked to make a statement by Mr Marek Niedużak, Minister, because once again I heard here that mountain communities live mainly from winter tourism. On behalf of the inhabitants of the Podlaskie Voivodship, I declare that there is no agreement for unequal treatment of both municipalities and entrepreneurs. Municipalities from the Augustów Lake District, from Suwałszczyzna, from the Biebrzy Valley, from the Narwi Valley, the communes from the Białowieża Forest sometimes have more tourists than mountain communes during the year. Not only residents of Poland, but also residents of other countries come there. And these are year-round accommodations, hotels, holiday resorts, often located in the poorest municipalities. I can tell by the indicators. It is not possible to choose only a group of municipalities and entrepreneurs to help. I call on the Government of the United Right to stop dividing these municipalities, these entrepreneurs and simply give the kind of aid they will show, not just on the basis of support granted, because I guarantee that the support for the Law and Justice in the Podlaskie Voivodeship was not less than in the municipalities of Podhale. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-21-sejm-25-2.u558	Thank you very much, sir. This concludes the 25th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the next session of the Sejm, scheduled for 24 and 25 February 2021, will be served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 2 min 39]]
