ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u1	God bless all border guards, police officers, soldiers of the Polish Army who do their duty on the eastern border. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I shall make a formal application pursuant to Article. Paragraph 184. Point 3 (2) to vote on the secrecy of this sitting in the part in which the Prime Minister and perhaps the ministers he called to the board, with particular emphasis on the Minister of the Special Services Coordinator, could deepen this information to be presented to us, about the theme of the concert for resonance boxes that have sounded in recent months also in this Chamber, here in the High House. We would be very curious, we, near the Confederation (The Ring) what the minister coordinator has undertaken in this matter and how to counter the trolling of the Polish... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Mr Braun, I know you can hear me from here, even though you always say you can't hear me. I've filed a motion...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u2	Mr President, I would like to say to you that this proposal cannot be voted on. In order to be able to keep the sitting secret, it is necessary to have a written request signed by at least 30 Members. Please, Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice. [[He doesn't know anything. How would she know that?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u3	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very cordially for your message yesterday, and I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to appeal and make a formal request to each of you. When I entered this meeting today, one of the most important in the last 30 years, I left my party affiliation outside the door and I appeal for the exact same thing, dear opposition, [[Joy in the Chamber]] I call for the same thing, my dear United Right, because today, ladies and gentlemen... [[You can go back to the PiS.]] ... Lukashenka's looking at us, Putin's looking at us. [[Formal conclusion...]] Today we must, just as millions of Poles want us to do, speak with one voice, support the Polish state and defend the Polish border. I'm asking you to. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u4	Of course, sir, this was not a formal proposal. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Government information on the situation at the Polish-Belarusian border and the actions taken. Please take the floor of the President of the Council of Ministers, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u5	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! At first, I would like to apologize on behalf of President Jarosław Kaczyński for his absence, and he was sick. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] The disease doesn't choose. [[Voice from the room: Quiet!]] [[Voice from the hall: Is that so funny?]] At the same time, I will also start by saying that his actions within the Security Committee - very early started in June, then in July, in August - led to decisions which today result in much more effective action at the border. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will, of course, refer to these concrete actions. Let me start by saying, ladies and gentlemen, that today, on this particular day, on the day of such an important sitting as the Marshal stressed, we should forget who is of the left, who is of the right, who is of the liberal, conservative, left or other party. Today, although the Sejm is of course the basic place where different rations are subject to different disputes, today it should be dominated by one right: the right state. Right of the state of the Republic. [[Applause]] And the reason for the state is that we should calmly, carefully listen to what is happening on the eastern border, and at the same time discuss it in this format. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it must be emphasized with all our power that our security, the security of our eastern border is being violated in a very brutal way. This is unique, this is certainly a unique situation, the first such situation in 30 years, when we can say that security, the integrity of our borders is so brutally attacked and brutally tested. And at the same time, although from this place I have already mentioned the words of President Lech Kaczyński, I will mention them again, because they are incredibly adequate when he said 13 years ago in Tbilisi: Today Georgia, tomorrow Ukraine, the day after the Baltic States, and then maybe also the time for my country, for Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! Imperial, neoimperial Russian policy is progressing. We're seeing it very carefully. We're watching these steps. They're spread over different bars. They're spread over time. It is this last attack of Lukashenka - who is the contractor, but has its own power, this power is in Moscow, the power is President Putin - I am showing determination in the implementation of this scenario of the reconstruction of the Russian Empire. A scenario which we, all Poles, must oppose with all our power. [[Applause]] May I, too, begin by recalling the words of our great compatriot Ignacy Jan Paderewski, Prime Minister or President of the Council of Ministers of 1919, who said that Poland, in order to be free, must be strong. And this force is manifest today - it must be manifest - in effectiveness. In the effectiveness of our actions at the eastern border. First, it is worth explaining what is happening on the eastern border. That's what I'd like to spend the next few minutes with. Well, ladies and gentlemen, on the eastern border we are dealing not only with violence, not only with the direct use of violence against the sovereign Polish state - on the eastern border we are dealing with a directed performance. A spectacle aimed at violating the Polish border, introducing chaos in Poland, in the European Union. Exactly the same thing as the other direction was also implemented a few years ago, in 2015 and 2016. Today we oppose it under different circumstances. In circumstances where we were able to convince our partners from the European Union, NATO partners, that defending the eastern border of Poland is the defence of the eastern border of the European Union [[Applause]] and the eastern flank of NATO. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Let the Union pay for the wall.]] Today airplanes are being imported - special flights to Belarus - mainly from several directions from the Middle East. This is how migrants were attracted. They're migrants, they're not refugees. This is also worth noting, because some people are wrong about these terms. Migrants were attracted to destabilize the situation in the Republic of Poland, Lithuania, the Baltic States and the European Union as live shields. We can't let that happen. Therefore, the Security Committee under the direction of Prime Minister Kaczyński already in June decided to build the appropriate installations, a project that was intended to protect us preventively. Of course, I realise that the government is always criticized by the opposition. It is a normal, natural law of democracy. But take a look at the security committee's decisions. First security installations, second security installations. This morning, together with Minister Błaszczak, we were on the eastern border of the Republic of Poland, and I can tell you that if these security features were not the case, today the columns of migrants pushed behind the barrels of Belarusian special forces rifles would already be marching across the border of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] It was these safeguards that proved to be crucial. Yes, thank you very much to the President today, thank you to the President and to the entire Security Committee. These steps, taken as a result of decisions, are building a better security space. But without those decisions... [[Applause]] Thank you. But without these decisions it would not be possible to defend the borders of the Republic of Poland which has taken place recently in the last few days. And that's a sure basic premise to figure out how the government works on this issue. The point is that for a moment we forget about party animosities, party disputes, and that we all focus together on how the Republic can best defend itself against the greatest provocation, from the most powerful strike in at least decades from the East. And that's what I'm calling for. That's what I'm asking. I appeal in particular to the opposition. And in order to strengthen this appeal, let me just say briefly this: of course, they fell from this speaker and from various other speakers words, which should not fall, irresponsible words. I could quote them here for minutes, but I won't. I'm not gonna do this because I think today we have to focus on the future, on the future together, on taking care of it... As we have been able to predict to the ministers: Minister Błaszczak, Minister Kaminski, Prime Minister Kaczyński a few months ago, which will take place in October and November, and that is what has happened, so today we need to consider together what we should do together as a political class, as a government, as we, governing, because, of course, we have a special responsibility to strengthen security for the following weeks, months and maybe years. Yes, dear fellow countrymen, maybe years, because you have to prepare for a long-term impact, for a policy that can last for a long time, can be long-lasting. Just as you all remember the year 2014 when we thought that... Yeah, I think most of us thought it wouldn't last seven years, I guess. But there were those who predicted it would take a long time. And it takes a long time. There's still a fire in Donbasa, the occupation of Crimea. And I want to say here, from this place with all my power, without revealing the details, that we are convinced that these operations that take place on the eastern border of Poland are part of a larger operation. They are part of a very coordinated attack, which is a new type of war in which people are used as live shields and weapons known for previous wars are used, but in this case particularly important, weapons in which the Soviets were masters, and today the Russians, their direct heirs, are unfortunately also masters. It's about disinformation. And we need to be fully aware that we're all first and foremost being watched from across the eastern border. Yeah, west side, too. Our unity, whether Poles can be focused, coherent, united, focused on this goal - this is also observed beyond our western border, but especially beyond the eastern one. Because there, beyond the eastern border, they know best that if we are not united, it will easily break us down and easily interfere with our sovereignty. [[Applause]] That's why, ladies and gentlemen, this is my appeal. No one here in this room is to blame. We try to do our best and recognize the reality around us. But I think we will all admit, all of us as one husband realize that Alexander Lukashenka specially brought tens of thousands of people to Belarus. It is Alexander Lukashenka who moves these human groups, these people, migrants especially, sometimes with violence - we have such information - from Minsk to our eastern border. It is Alexander Lukashenka who uses these people as living shields... [[Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke:...from Iraq...]] ...and Alexander Lukashenka is responsible for these people returning to their countries where they belong. [[Applause]] But in order for him to come to such a conclusion, we must be united, we must look in solidarity at what is happening, taking first of all into account the fate of Poland, the fate of the Republic of Poland. And the risk is great. The risk is something we haven't experienced in a long time. [[Voice from the hall: Let's make a government of national unity.]] So much so, High Izbo, as much as it was necessary to take care of, take care of areas near the border, by the border of the Republic of Poland, because there are actually entrepreneurs there, who also suffer as a result of a state of emergency, we took care of. Our help is quite generous. If necessary, she'll be even more generous. That's where people live. We try to ensure that all the residents are able to function normally, as normal, so that the officers, the soldiers who carry out their duties daily and every night, are safe, calm, so that they can carry out their duties calmly. And the attacks are spotless. There are days where there are several hundred attacks a day, several hundred attempts to cross the border. Therefore, I would like to thank those people who are mainly responsible for preparing, which is good from this point of view very warmly once again, but with humility I look to the future, we must multiply our efforts, to those from the security committee. Let us thank President Jarosław Kaczyński. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] Thank you very much to all the members of the Security Committee, members of the Council of Ministers who have been involved in this subject, but mostly, and in the wake of the beautiful gesture made by the High Chamber - I think that no one will have any doubts - we owe here thanks for the worthy service, for defending the uniform, defending the dignity and uniform of a Polish soldier, a Polish officer to all great (The Bell) officers and officers, all great soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army, operational troops. Thank you. Thank you for defending the borders of the Republic of Poland. Thank you. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] [[Some Members chant: Thank you! Thank you! Thank you!]] Yes, sir, thank you. We also thank our partners, we thank our various neighbours from the European Union and from outside the European Union for these not only verbal signs of unity, but also for their willingness to help Poland. It is also about our willingness to help others who notice. Thank you from this place in a special way to the President for his international activity. [[Applause]] The President has raised this issue in recent days, in recent weeks, every day with his counterparts, the Secretary-General of NATO. Today, as you can see, we have widespread and unabated expressions of solidarity and support that flow to Poland from Brussels, Washington, Kiev and many other capitals, all of Europe's capitals. [[Applause]] See the action that takes place in Spain: Viva Polonia. It's one of the biggest social action that's happened in Spain recently. We thank all partners from abroad. Thank you for your solidarity, for your votes and your willingness to help. Today we defend our borders in an efficient way. We're ready to help others, too. There have also been calls in this House for Frontex assistance. Ladies and gentlemen, with all due respect for this wonderful European institution, we have nearly 15,000. Our Border Guard officers, we have 13,000 today. soldiers. Do you know how many Frontex officers are there to protect the borders of the entire European Union, at all its borders? All employees - less than 2,000, and officers - less than 1 000. [[Write that down.]] Not much. That is why this is not the real aid that some of you have called for. And that's not why we don't want to accept it, because for some reason we think it would be a wrong gesture. When he wanted to come to our eastern border, the chief of Frontex arrived and highly praised all the activities of our services. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I hope that I am explaining in substance why we are concentrating our forces, our resources, also concentrating our will and our determination on the eastern border to prevent the further bad course of events. There were also questions in this House as to whether this is needed, whether this risk is scaled down, whether this installation is needed, whether this even stronger installation, which we have decided recently, is necessary. I think it's clear today that we were right that these are actions that are needed at least to this extent. We will strengthen our forces, our human forces, our presence of uniformed services, our technical forces at the eastern border, so that it is properly protected. Yesterday I spoke with the Prime Minister of Lithuania, the Prime Minister of Lithuania, the Prime Minister of Latvia, the Prime Minister of Estonia, the President of the European Commission, today I spoke with several more prime ministers. Everyone understands this provocation perfectly, they understand that the border of the Republic is the border between the state of the rules, the state of law and the state of lawlessness, unfortunately, Belarus. [[Applause]] And it is worth noting that, ladies and gentlemen, if not for these actions taken under the direction of our government, today this border, the border between Poland and Belarus - let us think about it for a moment - would be a virtual border, would be a border through which thousands, tens of thousands of people, tens of thousands of migrants, who only, for this purpose, are downloaded by Lukashenka to destabilize the Republic, destroy the cohesion of our country, normal development after a pandemic and destroy the cohesion of the European Union. But this time they did not succeed, and unlike what happened between 2015 and 2016, they came to our answer, to a clear resistance not only to Poland, not only to Lithuania, Ukraine, Latvia, other countries of Central and Eastern Europe, but also to the whole of the European Union. The whole European Union says to Lukashenka: no, enough of this action, enough destabilization, we will not allow it and we will bring order back. [[Applause]] That's why, ladies and gentlemen, it's worth recalling this holiday, which... [[Any information?]] ...right before us, our biggest national holiday, the celebration of independence. On this holiday we will celebrate not only independence, but we will certainly also defend the borders of the Republic of Poland, and therefore we must be strong, we must be ready to resist all the various activities that we know will happen, but also those that we do not know about. That's why we need to be prepared for the unknown. We need to take into account the risks that we can't imagine today. This is a turning point, maybe a turning point in the history of Poland. That is why this unity is needed All of us. We owe it to the past generations. The ones who fought for independence, the ones who spilled blood behind the Republic. We owe it to future generations, we owe it to Poles, we owe it to Poland. [[Some Members stand up, long-term applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u6	Thank you, Prime Minister. Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, the coordinator of the special services of Mr Mariusz Kaminski, to present the information. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u7	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I will start with the hottest information about what is happening on our border with Belarus. As we all saw yesterday, there was a very spectacular mass attempt to cross our border illegally. We've been watching this situation for days. From Sunday, November 7th, at the meeting point, 3 km from our border crossing point in Kuźnica, Belarusian services, inspiring groups of migrants, pointed to them as such a gas station. On Sunday, some 500 people gathered there, which were moved by the Belarusian service to the area of nearby forests. On Monday you saw from the very morning in the country where public assemblies are banned, a very spectacular march of about 1000 migrants, who arrived for many hours from Minsk to this gas station as a meeting point which they were told. About 1,500 people tried to forcefully break the border of the Polish state yesterday. These attempts were ineffective and ineffective. We have sufficient force and resources to effectively counter such illegal, illegal, forceful, aggressive attempts to cross our border. Ladies and gentlemen! The situation is at the moment that there are about 2 and 4 000 in the belt near the border of our country with Belarus. illegal immigrants who will be pursuing in the near future, perhaps in the coming hours, perhaps in the coming days until the next assault on our border. About 15 thousand people live in Belarus at the moment. illegal immigrants. There are about 40 flights to Minsk from several countries of the world each week, mainly from Turkey, in addition to Dubai, Damascus, Syria, and Beirut, Lebanon. We are trying to influence the airlines and the authorities of these countries in order to reduce the number of these courses. We're doing this part of the way, but the situation is the way it is. Approximately 2,000 a week. illegal immigrants go to the airport in Minsk. It's a falling dynamic. Falling, because a few weeks ago it was 3,500. Up to 4,000. illegal immigrants a week. So that's the situation. In view of the safety of those enjoying the transition in Kuźnica Białostocka, we have decided to suspend the work of this transition. It's about the safety of the drivers, the safety of the people who used this passage. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm talking to the public first of all, because I assume... [[Voice from the room: Louder.]] [[Voice from the room: Louder, Minister.]] Yeah, I'll try to make it louder. First of all, I ask the public to systematize this knowledge, what we are dealing with and with what we are dealing with. Of course, the Prime Minister has said a lot, and we say it very often, but let us try to put some knowledge into order for this debate and this discussion. It's like the Prime Minister said. Since June this year we knew that a political decision had been made to hit our country, to hit our friends from the Baltic States using an element of illegal immigration. The decision in this case is implemented by the Belarusian regime, the regime of Aleksandra Lukashenka, but in fact this decision is implemented on the basis of permission, and in fact the main decision-maker is in Moscow, in the Kremlin. This is Vladimir Putin. For a long time we have seen meetings both at political level, at the level of the special services of both countries, as well as at diplomatic level, MFAs and border services. This is a constant, ongoing cooperation and consultation. There is no doubt that Lukashenka and this regime, the fallen regime, but still continuing - and it is not known how long it will last - does what she does, with the full acceptance of Moscow. What's Russia doing in this game? We have to be clear: Russia has its long-term goals. This is undoubtedly a destabilization of the situation in the European Union, and it is really an attempt to permanently destabilise Central and Eastern Europe. These are undoubtedly Russian strategic objectives. They want to have an instrument of blackmail and influence on Europe, on the free world, executed without their own hands. What is it, Lukashenka? It's obvious. This is a man as a politician severely wounded, in extremely large emotions. He wanted revenge, retaliation in our country and in Lithuania for the support, the great support that Poland and Lithuania gave to Belarusian society, the Belarusian people in difficult days of falsified elections in Belarus. This is his emotion, his revenge. But, of course, he also sets political goals for himself. He wants to be declared legally elected President of Belarus. He wants to force Poland, Lithuania, the European Union to talk to his partner, he wants to be a partner. Its aim is, of course, to force - through the use of such methods - sanctions against Belarus. This is Russia's goal: a permanent instrument for destabilising Central and Eastern Europe, a permanent element of blackmail and emphasis on the European Union. Lukashenka wants to recognise her authority and wants to abolish the sanctions of the European Union. Why this instrument? We know what happened in Europe in 2015. We know that the wave of refugees has flooded the entire European Union. We know the political and social costs associated with this phenomenon, various types, sometimes very, very difficult, such as a wave of terror. Many terrorist actors in Western Europe moved to Europe in 2015 as part of this stream of migrants. This situation has been completely artificially created by the regime. These people are legally there. They were created logistics opportunities in the form of flying planes. Everyone's got visas, they're all legally staying there. They are invited by Belarusian services, by Belarusian tourist offices spread around the world, especially in the Middle East. If we're not consistent, if we lose cold blood, if we don't act hard, we'll be flooded. We will be flooded with a wave of illegal immigration with all the political and social consequences. This can't happen, ladies and gentlemen. But there is another purpose of the hybrid war that has been waged against our country. This goal is the maximum internal conflict between us: us, Poles, us, politicians, polarization. Let's jump at each other's throats, accuse each other, argue, show our weakness in an emergency situation. This objective is to create a sense of danger for our citizens - that the state is weak, helpless, that the external enemy can do what he wants in our country, may dictate to us the conditions that we are not alone, that we must ask for help. No, we have to fight it together. I appeal to you every time, whether in my previous seym speeches or in the parliamentary committees, for unity. If you can't support us, don't disturb us. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! In times of danger, we must be one, try to be one. We are working for all citizens, regardless of their political views. Let's stop. Let's stop looking at the support posts for political parties, [[Applause]] To whom it serves and to whom it does not serve. Whether it serves the PiS or it doesn't serve the PiS - it doesn't matter. It only matters if it serves the Polish state and its citizens, regardless of their political views. I want to tell you that we are in control of this situation as much as we can control this situation with such emotional opponents and so ruthless opponents. We're trying to get ahead of them. Let me give you one concrete example. Do you know when the military started setting up temporary lines at the border? At the beginning of July, when there was not yet a wave of immigrants in Lithuania. This wave reached Poland in August. At the beginning of July, the military set up a network at the borders, because we knew it would be necessary, and we knew that they were temporary. Do you know when the president made a secret decision to use the army to support the Border Guard? [[Voice from the room: How do we know?]] Also in July. It was at my request to the Minister of National Defence, and the Minister of National Defence turned to the President. Already in July there were common patrols of the Polish Border Guard and the Polish army. The Polish army learned about the specifics of the area. Yes. We have a concept. We know that we must act consistently. We will achieve our goals. We will not allow Poland to be a helpless country, a destabilized country, a country that will be a route for smugglers, for organized criminal groups, for enemies of our country, [[Applause]] the route of illegal immigration, a route which will violate the principle of Poland's sovereignty. The minimum of decency that I have the right to expect as Minister of the Interior is that you will stop and not accept these brutal, insolent, insulting and insulting attacks on Polish Army soldiers... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...officers of the Border Guard and police officers who day and night 24 hours a day defend our sovereignty at the eastern border. Great thanks to them. You defend Polish independence, defend Polish sovereignty, defend the security of ordinary people. Thank you for that. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u8	Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor to present the information of the Minister of National Defence, Mr Mariusz Błaszczak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u9	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The government treats security... [[So we don't fall asleep.]] [[Calm down.]] ... Poland in an absolutely priority way. The situation that we are currently dealing with at the Polish-Belarusian border is the most serious test for our services for decades. Polish soldiers, border guards and police officers are giving this exam aimfully. [[Applause]] Every day they do a titanic job to protect their homeland from the hybrid attack of the regime dictator Lukashenka. At the moment, around 13,000 are serving at the border. soldiers from all divisions of the Polish Army, i.e. 11th, 12th, 16th, and 18th divisions. Soldiers have been supporting the Border Guard since the beginning of the migration crisis. They serve both directly at the border line and in the back. Soldiers operate within two groups. They are present at the entire length of the border line between Poland and Belarus and support the Border Guard at almost all locations. The air component is also included in the operation. In total, there are five helicopters in use. Along the border, messages are regularly sent in several languages informing migrants of the consequences of illegal border crossings. Operational soldiers are supported by engineering troops responsible for the construction and repair of fence damage. A forest net was placed along the fence to protect animals from mutilation. Military territorial defence forces are also involved in border protection. Since the introduction of the emergency, they have been operating with strong support. Initially, the activities of WOT soldiers were focused on direct contact with local government officials, representatives of local communities, e.g. Councils, as well as residents of areas affected by a state of emergency. Today, territorials are also a diversion at the border, stopping illegal migrants and often saving their lives. WOT also illuminates the areas of small towns and runs a special hotline where emergency assistance can be obtained. High Seym! The Law and Justice Government was already talking in 2015 about what uncontrolled migration could lead to. Open door policy has led to acts of terror in the west of Europe. I have consistently talked about this in the European Union, while still serving as Minister for Home Affairs and Administration. I rather welcome the fact that the European Union proves otherwise after many months. She admitted it to us. Currently, Poland is not only defending its territory from another wave of illegal migration. We are also defending the European Union as a whole, bearing in mind that for migrants we are only a transit country on a journey to Germany and further to the west of Europe. We know exactly what uncontrolled migration can lead to. Predicting that the migration crisis, which started at the Belarusian-Lithuanian border, could move to us, we acted ahead. As early as July, we started to build a temporary fence built from military chains. It was the Committee on National Security and Defence Affairs headed by Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński who made this decision. We discussed, coordinated these actions. Although this idea has been met with unwarranted criticism, the fence is today a key barrier that slows down the march of illegal migrants. Migrants, trying to get through the fence put by soldiers, give time to Polish services to react. Imagine how difficult it would have been to protect the border even yesterday during a massive attempt to cross it if the fence hadn't been built. A few weeks ago, together with Minister Kaminski, we presented indisputable evidence that there may be criminals, potential terrorists or persons disturbed among migrants. Parts of public opinion But it didn't convince me. Yesterday, we were able to see aggressive young men who did not hesitate to use their children cynically to arouse emotions. We saw how they tried to destroy the fence, attack Polish soldiers and officers and force themselves into the territory of the Republic. These were acts of aggression that can move from the border to Polish cities if we cannot stop this wave. Let us remember that the vast majority of migrants are just young men who want to improve their economic situation and do so in an extremely perfidious way, without regard to any consequences. High Izbo! We must not forget who inspires this attack. The regime of Aleksandra Łukaszenka and his subordinate services control illegal activities at the Polish-Belarusian border. They run a propaganda-disinformation campaign calculated to undermine confidence in the Polish army, Polish services and state and introduce chaos. It's a particularly dangerous phenomenon. The last dictator of Europe exercises his power thanks to the Kremlin. All those who see only families with children who want to enter our country in this situation show incredible shortsightedness and naivety. It should be borne in mind that the Russian doctrine assumes the use of intensive psychological treatment, which is intended to break down internal social solidarity. The Russians, using hybrid attacks, aim to destroy the authority and use the elites of the attacked country. Their goal is to create panic and make an attacking state unable to resist. We can't let that happen. We can't let that happen. [[Applause]] We cannot be manipulated by the Minsk regime. Any successful attempt to destabilize the internal situation in our country drives Lukashenka to continue her attacks. We need the same solidarity as in Lithuania, where the whole political class speaks with one voice - the voice of reason. [[Applause]] High Seym! Finally, I would like to bring up the most important topic. We should be eternally grateful to our soldiers and officers, for whom there have been incredibly hard service for months. There's another one in front of them. They must feel our support. They need to know there's a whole nation behind them. It is on their shoulders that our safety rests. [[Applause]] With Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki I was at the border today, I had the opportunity to talk to soldiers. They are brave people, determined to ensure Poland's safety. They're patriots who know how much responsibility they have at this critical moment for us. The situation at the border isn't gonna calm down fast, it's gonna escalate. Soldiers and officers who are there are aware of that. They need our support. From this point forward, I would like to thank them all warmly. [[Applause]] I get a lot of signals and requests to convey my thanks and respect for the soldiers and officers currently serving at the border. We're with you. Thank you. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u10	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I am the first to ask the floor of Mrs Anna Milczanowska, the Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u11	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I present the position of the Law and Justice Club regarding government information on the situation at the Polish-Belarusian border and the actions taken there. [[When did you write this? Before the show?]] We would like to thank and express our highest appreciation to the uniformed services. We've heard many thanks here, but never too many. We thank the Border Guard, the Polish Army, the Territorial Defence Forces, the Police and everyone involved in protecting Poland and ensuring the security of every Polish citizen. [[Applause]] We have just heard very important information from Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and ministers Mariusz Kaminski and Mariusz Błaszczak about the situation on our border with Belarus. Information full of concern for Poland and the security of Poles, and at the same time a strong declaration of well organized and determined defence of this security, a determined service for the undisputed good which the Republic of Poland and the lives of its citizens are, threatened with the real barbarism which today is controlled by the Belarusian usurper, who once again puts his own political interest over human, often innocent, life. As an absolute tool, the Belarusian regime has chosen people who are recruited by means of a promise to enter Western Europe and a prosperous life there. Alexander Lukashenka does not care about their health and life. It is his cruelty that causes the misfortune of these people led by the service to the Polish-Belarusian border and left there for fate. Of course, Poland is blamed for the whole situation. From the very beginning, also in our country, the arguments for admission of immigrants have been raised. Polish uniforms serving there are often insulted and accused. This is what the Belarusian regime wanted, as well as the Moscow regime. This is part of his plan to destabilize the situation in Poland and force us to make concessions on sanctions imposed on his country. Today, when we stand up for not only our homeland but also the borders of the European Union, we stand up for our cultural heritage and the values that the civilized world respects. [[Applause]] We have asked the President of the Republic of Poland to introduce a state of emergency at the border with Belarus and this state has been in force since 2 September. Temporary installations have been set up at the border to prevent illegal crossing. In December we begin to build a barrier, a permanent barrier that will protect us even more from it. We've increased the number of border guards, police officers and soldiers. That's what the ministers were talking about. As far as border guards are concerned, this is already over 4.5,000. In the border area they are also supported by more than 1.5 thousand. Police officers, they're also police officers from the prevention squads, but they're also well-trained police anti-terrorists. As Minister Mariusz Błaszczak said, at the border he serves about 13 thousand. soldiers. We have also raised the state of readiness of the Territorial Defence Army, as needed in such situations, we have all seen. [[Applause]] We are on the eve of the National Independence Day, so we want to be clear: we will not allow the integrity of our borders to be broken, [[Applause]] They are part of our stateship and sovereignty. Our servants will not allow it, and they will categorically oppose it. We hear many voices of support from our foreign partners and allies. We have no doubt how important it is that Poland today speaks with one strong voice in the face of extremely aggressive and extremely dangerous attacks, controlled and manipulated by the Minsk and Moscow regime. Although not everyone who was locked up in a political dispute wanted to make the first diagnosis correctly, no one can doubt today - we are witnessing an extremely disgusting attack on Poland. We owe the courage and consideration of the Border Guard and the military and police forces involved, as well as all those responsible for our country, to stopping the aggressor Alexander Lukashenka and his service. Therefore, our club fully supports the actions of the government of the Republic of Poland [[Applause]] and wholeheartedly thank all those who today stand together in defence of the Republic. By making a choice now in this room, we will stand before the judgment of future generations of Poles. It's time to save the history of Poland together, not against each other. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u12	Thank you kindly, Member. I ask the floor of Mr Tomasz Semoniak on behalf of the Civic Coalition. You're welcome. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u13	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Thank you for stressing by Marshal Elizabeth Witek the role of our officers and soldiers. On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I join you with strong support and respect for what they do. [[Applause]] Prime Minister! It's a bit of a problem that you don't sit on government benches and you have to look for yourself. [[Voice from the room: It's not a problem.]] If the Prime Minister on 6 September during the first debate on the state of emergency as he did today, we would be at a completely different point. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] I won't go back to those opposition attacks either. Today you can see that they were completely unnecessary, because in the assessment of the sources of the crisis we are absolutely not different - the aggressive regime of Lukashenka, the imperial actions of the Kremlin. [[The voice from the room: Then why did you...]] I had the honor of talking about it then, September 6th. I think that we are also no different when it comes to border tightness, we are not different about the opposition in Belarus, about what has been going on there for a year and what is undoubtedly the cause of this aggression, which has been increasing in recent weeks and months. Appreciating the offer of unity on this issue, I would like to say that dialogue is also needed for unity. He's just not here. [[Applause]] The Prime Minister mentioned 2014, the annexation of Crimea, the events in Donbasa. It was then that Prime Minister Donald Tusk invited opposition leaders, including President Jarosław Kaczyński, to meet the Prime Minister's office - it was possible, political fight then was as hot as it is now. The President does not convene the National Security Council. There will be no unity without dialogue. Minister Mariusz Kaminski says something happened in July and something in September. Why, even in secret mode, cannot the opposition be informed of such matters? [[Applause]] What we have heard from the Prime Minister and ministers today is that there are no proposals to resolve this crisis. With regard to the current situation of Poland - a little contrary to what is of course good: that talks are ongoing that the President is in contact with NATO's secretary-general - there is no real action in terms of support for the European Union and NATO. Real actions, not words. Words can't protect us. [[Applause]] Prime Minister! It is high time to bury the hatchet in relations with the European Union. The members of the Disciplinary Chamber really can't protect us at the border. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: And those again.]] I think that Minister Zbigniew Ziobro could give 100 days of peace in EU affairs to the Prime Minister and the United Right, so that this support from our partners and friends could actually be real. [[Applause]] And it's not a question of how many officers Frontex has. It's a matter of politics. It is a matter of the whole European Union knowing that this is its limit, its problem and its people must simply be there. [[Applause]] The Prime Minister says that this is the biggest threat to Poland for decades. Why, then, we do not ask NATO to consult under Article. 4 when you feel threatened? [[Applause]] We took advantage of this opportunity in 2014. These aren't just idle discussions. It's not like we're different from NATO, either. There's no emotion here. We always support what involves NATO strength and Poland's strong position in NATO. Do it, it will really help and it will be a real contribution to showing the Lukashenka regime that Poland is not alone. He, on the basis of the various actions of your government, may feel that Poland is isolated, that Poland is alone. Let us show that the West, the free world, the European Union and NATO are with Poland. [[Applause]] Undoubtedly, action must be taken against the Lukashenka regime in order to remove the causes of this crisis. There are no words in this information about what the Prime Minister is doing in this area within the European Council. It is about strengthening sanctions, it is about various actions that can painfully touch Lukashenka, limiting its economic or political interests. This also applies to the issues of airlines which should be subject to sanctions. This requires Polish activity. We're the ones that are most interested in these things. [[Applause]] Without real pressure on Belarus and Russia behind it, the cause of this state of affairs will not disappear. If we're passive about the causes, we're gonna have to put up more walls and direct thousands more soldiers and officers there. It's a road to nowhere. That is why I would expect from the Prime Minister, the Foreign Minister - in response or in public speeches - full information about what you are doing. Not about telephone conversations taken yesterday and today with different leaders - it is important, we appreciate it - but about real actions that will bring results and will really touch Lukashenka. It can't be that we're passive about sanctions. We do not hear that the Prime Minister is proposing to tighten up sanctions against the Lukashenka regime. I wish things like this were going on, and there was information about these things in this room. [[Applause]] As part of building unity, it is worth that the Polish authorities use all the resources they have in this area. Unfortunately, in the last six years, many, thousands, hundreds of people have been released from the military, from special forces, from various other services, who have been prepared for such situations, who have had great knowledge of what is happening in the East, in the Middle East, where immigrants are coming from. I know that this is a very difficult subject, but I appeal to the Prime Minister to use this potential of the state. It can't be that other crews hire completely new people without using older ones. We have retired 40-year-olds and 50-year-olds in the service who really deserve to be used and listened to in this situation. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Especially these two generals.]] Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! What is happening at the Polish-Belarusian border at the moment, maybe is just the beginning of an even worse scenario. The role of the government, the role of the people responsible for state security, is always to be prepared for the worst-case scenarios. These actions, which I am talking about here - starting with dialogue with the opposition, by burying the hatchet of war with the European Union, the use of NATO, the launch of consultations in the North Atlantic Council under Article. 4 - will be a very good preparation for the future, because today we are doing well, today we have human resources, hardware, we have the facilities for this action, but tomorrow it may not be enough. Our eastern neighbour, with whom we have several hundred years of difficult history, will only bend if we are united and behind us standing the whole West, the European Union and the United States. Let's do it. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u14	Thank you very much. Mr Włodzimierz Czarzasty, Club Left. You're welcome. You're welcome, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u15	It got really sweet. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! There are situations where you should rise above the party divisions. There are situations where political disputes fade. There are situations where you have to be serious and keep your tongue down. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] These are situations of threat to life and health, raising funds for the country and the security of the state. This is the situation we are currently dealing with on the Polish border. Lukashenka has been conducting an operation aimed at Poland for several weeks. This operation uses civilians from many parts of the world. These people run from poverty, chaos, persecution and violence. They're looking for a better life for themselves and their children. [[Voice from the room: Yes, you can see.]] And this is the natural and most basic need that we have. We know Poles very well. [[Voice from the room: Security is a basic need...]] We weren't supposed to fight. We must defend our eastern border. At the same time, every migrant who gets through this protected and guarded border should get help in Poland. War doesn't eliminate humanism, [[Applause]] And the migrants are human, even if they're cheated. Every man who crosses the border should feel the difference between Eastern despotism and Western respect for dignity and human rights, [[Applause]] because it is these two worlds that separate the Polish-Belarusian border. [[Take them home.]] On the Belarusian side there is a lack of respect for human life. On the Polish side there should be a warm blanket, a meal, safe accommodation, medical assistance and civilized asylum procedures. So-called. Pushbacks are illegal and must be rejected. Let us remember that these activities include children and women. The countries of the West respected the rights of immigrants towards Poles in the 1980s. If international protection is not available to anyone, then Poland should put such a person on board the plane and send him home. After all, all of this can be done in a civilized way. [[Applause]] [[But that's all...]] Prime Minister! Are we prepared for our country to take such action? Are the temporary measures ready? Do we have translators and trained officials? Are the planes that will require some of the people who will get to the Polish side to return to their countries secured? [[Yes, sir.]] Respond positively to the appeal of Olga Tokarczuk and three other Nobel Prize winners to enable humanitarian organisations to provide assistance. In resolving this crisis, Poland must cooperate with the European Union: on imposing sanctions on the Belarusian regime, on stopping flights through the territory of third countries. That is why we introduced Poland into the European Union and NATO in order to benefit from these structures in such situations. [[Applause]] The question arises: How do you want to benefit from the help of the European Union if Minister Ziobro talks about the hybrid war waged by the European Union with Poland, and you, Prime Minister, recently suspected the European Union of wanting to raise the Third World War? It's petty and unreasonable. [[Oh, ugly... it wasn't cute.]] The wall of concrete and steel can be unreliable. We know that putting up a wall is always a failure of democracy. We need to build a diplomatic wall that will protect Poland. [[And there's a democracy in Belarus...]] Does anyone ask themselves what will happen to Polish Eastern policy? How do we want relations with Belarus and Russia in 10 years' time? Are we thinking about this right now? Do we have any Eastern policy? We called yesterday as a Left to the President for the National Security Council to be called. On refugees, we should discuss the common position of the opposition and the rulers. But how do you do that if you encourage us to cooperate and at the same time use the mouth of prominent PiS politicians to insult the opposition and not build the basis for trust? [[Applause]] I fear your cynicism, the conversion of refugees' lives and health into percentage points of support and political gains. I'm afraid of you in this respect. [[Then run.]] Yesterday's speech by Marshal Witek was very convincing, but did it convince Marshal Terletsky? You often make irresponsible people out of opposition on public television. And now you want to talk to us, irresponsible people, about the future? We want to talk to you, the Left is beyond petty, but speak honestly, not just because of this moment in history. [[Applause]] The National Security Council should be held immediately. I don't want to set up a agenda for the meeting for Mr President, but one point should certainly be in it: allowing journalists to enter the border area. [[Applause]] It can't be that journalists are correspondents in the war, and they're not at the border. Either Poles will draw knowledge from Polish media, or regrettable Sputnik portals will enter this vacuum. [[It's German.]] Transparency of actions builds trust. Its lack builds a world of hatred, understatements and half-truths. I have the impression that a state of emergency was introduced to eliminate journalists. Did he solve any other problem besides intimidation? Did he help people on the border? Thank you for serving the Border Guard and the military. Poland's right state is clear: defend the border, but we must not forget what the border is between Poland and Belarus and Lukashenka. It's a line between the rule of violence and the rule of law. [[That's why we obey the law.]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: You just said there is no law here.]] It's a line between contempt for people and human life and respect for human dignity. In Poland, we must respect human dignity, regardless of origin, skin color or religion. That's the way it's supposed to be. I believe that in recent years this border has been blurred in our country, but I believe that it still exists. Certainly exists in the minds and hearts of millions of Poles and Poles. For such Poland we will fight for, such Poland we will defend. I wanted to say this to you at the end. You hate the words of criticism, you encourage us to cooperate when things don't work out when you want to create the impression that we should all do everything together - in this one particular case, because in every other case you don't care about us. And you know that this is unfortunately hypocritical. And without emotion I tell you: we want to work with you in the most important things, but when you say those words and you hear your reaction, I'll tell you honestly that I have all the red lights that can light up in me. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And the red color is good for me, but not for Poland when it comes to cooperation in the most important things with you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u16	Thank you very much. Member of Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz on behalf of the Polish Coalition. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u17	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Extraordinary situations require extraordinary action, above all responsibility and solidarity. The system, planning and precise implementation of hybrid war policy by the pocket dictator is a threat to the security of Poland, Poles and Poles, as well as Europe. Today, solidarity and responsibility are the only possible response to this threat, but solidarity must be used and implemented in several options. First of all, internal solidarity. Solidarity of political forces, solidarity of citizens, national solidarity, information solidarity. Solidarity is not a one-way action and solidarity cannot be required without criticism and any support without information. This information and here, in the High House, and wherever we meet, is simply necessary and a condition of solidarity. Solidarity is a two-way principle. I, for my part, declare solidarity and willingness to cooperate in the face of a threat, in the face of the defence of the Polish border, in the face of support for officers and soldiers, all those who effectively defend the Polish border. [[Applause]] We are ready for solidarity and we ask for this solidarity from all sides of the political dispute. And we're not doing this for the first time, because we're doing it in all these kinds of debates. We also gave an expression of this solidarity as a result of our votes, where we supported the construction of the barrier, having certain doubts, but knowing that this could be a clear signal that this transport belt will be closed in a moment, and that information must reach those who are being used cynically by the Belarusian regime. We cannot ignore the facts and the fact that the Belarusian services are responsible for this crisis, we must not succumb to the pressure of the Lukashenka regime and its actions, which are to destabilise us internally, is to destabilize the European Union. The example of Lithuania was given here and it is a good example for us. There is an agreement between the opposition and the rulers and there is also an important involvement of the media. Just now Marshal Czarzasty noticed that information is needed not only for the citizens of the Republic, but also to fight the propaganda of Lukashenka. If he has more control over the information today and sends it more into the world, then our effectiveness of defence in hybrid war, where information, ba, destabilization of information or forgery of information, fake news is one of the basic actions... All the more reason why Polish media should be involved. After all, this is also the patriotic attitude of journalists, which will certainly be expressed in this way. The border doesn't have party colors. The border is white-red and the government is responsible for it, the opposition is responsible, the citizens are responsible, we are all responsible. That is the responsibility we expect and demand from everyone. [[Applause]] It is not political scouts who decide the future of Poland, but responsibility and solidarity. And now this solidarity in international terms. There is a need for a European Council, which we have been calling on the Prime Minister for a few weeks. This request should already reach Brussels. All EU structures and experience are needed. Frontex, because it's not like there's gonna be a bunch of officers coming down there right now. Our officers are doing very well in such difficult conditions. Here I agree, and once again on behalf of all of us, I think I thank you for this beautiful gesture at the beginning of the session, where we all applauded. There's no difference here, and there can be no difference in judging soldiers and officers. They need to be comforted by the verbal one and the one that can be delivered. The actions of Frontex are those that result from experience at the southern border of the European Union. And they would be very useful. I would also like to ask the Prime Minister to tell me whether there have been actions in the OSCE, in the Council of Europe, whether a human rights spokesman has been launched at the Council of Europe and have these actions been taken? All these international organisations for this crisis must also be jointly and severally responsible with us, because the breach of the Polish border and the entry of migrants into Poland is immediately the entry into the Federal Republic of Germany, to other countries of the European Union. This awareness is in these countries and on our part must also be an invitation to cooperate. The border crisis is not a migration crisis in classic terms. After all, he is evoked, as everyone here rightly emphasizes, by the systematic, organized act of cheating people, who, for enormous money, are given the false hope of a pass to a better world, which turns out to be so deluded when they reach Minsk. There must be a clear signal to diplomatic institutions, not only Polish diplomatic offices, about launching European diplomacy, EU diplomacy, in order to block information spreading in social media, which especially reach the citizens of Iraq and other countries, that there is a good transit path here. First of all, the European, global responsibility must be to block transport channels to Minsk and to do everything to ensure that airlines - not only Belarusian, because it is one thing - but all other possible transit routes are blocked. We're not just gonna solve this with action at the border. These are actions, these are the direct responsibility of the Polish state and the European Union, but diplomatic actions are needed and necessary. This conflict, which is, is not a migration crisis in the classic sense that the wave of refugees has begun due to a conflict in a given territory. This is, once again, a systemic and dangerous action. For us, and for me as the President of the Polish People's Party, the words of Vincent Witos are an indication of the whole situation in which we are in. Where the interest of the Polish state begins, where the interest of Poland begins, where the party business ends. [[Applause]] We will not pay attention to anything that involves current politics. We believe that this case needs to be removed from our daily struggles, disputes, sometimes fights. That's what needs to be done. not only in today's declarations, but in actions, not only in words, but in attitudes that will come to us. Otherwise, we won't be able to keep you safe. Not only in the near future, but in the next generation. There will be successive moments of crisis and boundaries that need to be defended - and external ones, and those that require high responsibility and our own discipline, limits of morality, boundaries of decency that are always and should be under special protection. We're ready for this kind of cooperation. We would also like to hear from the Prime Minister today that this declaration and this way of conducting the dialogue that is taking place today in the Parliament is not a one-off one, it is not just for use and the need for a moment, an extremely responsible and important moment, but it must be extended for longer. These disputes, which are between us, will not disappear, but today they cannot obscure what is a strategic goal: a free, democratic, independent homeland with the integrity of the territory and the integrity of the border. This responsibility will not be removed by us or by any other force. This responsibility stems from our mandate here today, but above all responsibility comes from being a Pole, because a Pole is more than just a mere identification of our nationality, but this must also be the definition of our responsibility and solidarity. I believe deeply that despite all that divides us, despite the differences that result from the natural political attitude of our environments, we are not only able to rise to the heights - I would like to see that Poland is not taken care of. It's just a slogan that it's climbing to the heights, but to be normal, continuous work and cooperation. We are always ready for this work and cooperation for protection (the bell) of the Polish border and independence. Long live Poland! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u18	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Kulesza, near the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u19	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The Confederation has been warning from the very beginning that the crisis at the border will be shot. Aware of the threat, we voted in favour of a state of emergency contrary to the hysteria of the Civic Platform and the Left, which only today realized the fatal consequences of their actions. Now they are inefficiently trying to get out of this situation, pushing a new, internally contradictory thesis that the border must be tight, but immigrants must be accepted. [[Applause]] But what you did with the time you got when you were in a state of emergency, you wasted it. You slept through that time. From the very beginning, the Confederation has advocated the construction of a real modern wall on the border - you have put a net on brush sticks. Yesterday, immigrants tore this network apart in a few hours. Today Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki of this speaker praised this pitiable fence, which in front of Poles was torn apart by a group of migrants using shovels and wood. The state of this grid reflects the state of Poland as a state of government. This is cheap PR and sham action. Look what it looks like in Lithuania. That wall's already built there. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Show Lukashenka.]] If it were not for the heroic attitude of Polish services, the border would already be interrupted. You are played by a country with a potential 10 times less than the potential of Poland, and you are completely helpless - like children in fog. You say that Poland is a leader in the region, and you cannot deal with the country at the level of the late Polish People's Republic. We have a whole range of possibilities for political and economic impact. Today we heard nothing from you, no plan. There were only peans in honor of this net and party ovations in honor of the president, Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński. Ladies and gentlemen! You say there's a hybrid war going on, but you can't just defend yourself in the war, you have to attack. Belarus can practically not export anywhere else than through Poland. Let's impose sanctions President Lukashenka will feel. Let us demand the same from the European Union. Let's put a good wall on the border quickly. President Lukashenka must feel that the cost of his aggression is higher than his potential profit. Only with decisive action will we defend our borders and our citizens. Wake up and take decisive action at last. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[But they did.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u20	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u21	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! Today Poland is facing an immigration crisis and border conflict. These are not random events. They are planned, implemented consistently, implemented with the indifference of parts of the international environment, including countries with which we are associated with alliances. Last night was quiet. All servants of the state services and soldiers of the Polish Army on our border should be wished that all subsequent nights will also be peaceful. Fingers crossed for you. We're expressing our support. We're not gonna let you spit on a Polish uniform. We will not allow us to disgust Polish Army officers and soldiers. Today we have to say clearly: defending borders is not inhumane. [[Applause]] Aggressive illegal immigrants are not refugees. There may be refugees between them, but the whole group is not refugees. [[Applause]] The policy of open borders will not solve this problem and will cause new problems. Today, in the public dispute, we have two proposals: the ethics of images and emotions offered to us by the Left and the ethics of responsibility, responsibility for society, international governance, rule of law and the state. What the Left is proposing is stopping the so-called. Pushbacks, that is, making border protection in practice simply ineffective, so that anyone crossing the border is impunity. What the Left proposes is the so-called. asylum procedures, which, you know well, take so long that in practice, the entry of someone into the asylum procedure in the current order simply means legalising his stay for a closer indefinite period. What you are proposing is putting the European Union's border control on the ground. It's a proposal of open borders, barely masked, you don't even try to do that. We need the exact opposite. Poland cannot and will not be a corridor for smugglers of illegal economic immigration. Poland and Poles want to help, they will help, but true refugees. It's up to us to decide where this help is going. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We will not be blackmailed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u22	Thank you very much. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday on behalf of Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u23	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Today we are facing a deep crisis on our border, but the words that should first fall to Poles today are: let us remain calm. Yes, this is a deep conflict caused by Lukashenka, but this is not war. Today, as a society, we want and we have the right to know what ways out of this situation is proposed by the government. They should be reasonable, manageable, not in the rhetoric of propaganda and conflict, escalation and intimidation. The solutions are here at your fingertips. Firstly, sealing the border with human, technical means, so that it is impossible to cross it. Secondly, to ensure security and support for border residents, whom you have left with difficult proposals, long waiting for money. Thirdly, the real support of our Border Guard officers, troops and other uniforms, who are serving in extremely difficult circumstances today. Fourthly, safety does not rule out humanity. Every man who stands on the border of the Republic should be treated with dignity and respect. This means allowing humanitarian organisations, the media and independent observers. This means accepting more applications for international protection and reaching for ready-made models of civilized deportation procedures. But the most important thing that we should do today is to take international cooperation immediately to deal with the root causes of the current crisis, not just its consequences. This crisis must and can be resolved quickly and effectively. The best instrument is concrete economic sanctions against the Lukashenka regime, which today benefits greatly from trade with the European Union and at the same time destabilises its border. Instead of the self-insulation that the Polish authorities have been cultivating for a long time, we need to start working with our EU allies. The only way to end this conflict is through Brussels. You can speak to a satrapa without honor and without conscience by taking his wallet. Therefore, such instruments should be used, such as sanctioning companies that lease aircraft to Belarusian airlines. This could and should be done by a united Europe, and we should strive to do so with all possible means. Today, the fact that the PiS government has a problem with handling a simple device, which is a compass, is revenge. Instead of a natural, Polish-compatible state of the western direction, you have been pushing us to the East for years. And now you are not taking advantage of the most effective possible impact on Minsk, which is the pressure of the entire European Union. [[Applause]] This wrong vector of government geopoliticals causes the conflict at the border to rise and you can't see the end of it. Sent to protect the border, officers won't be home for Christmas. They're worth a word. These people swore to serve Poland. By obeying often inhuman orders, they witness dramas such as death, hunger for children, and crying for women. They're faced with terrible choices. Trauma in border guards, soldiers, police officers will remain for many years. That is why today, more than bragging about the modern equipment you use at the border, we would like to assure you that these people will receive psychological care or longer paid vacations to return to life's balance. We know who caused this crisis and what he cares about. Today we cannot make a present for Lukashenka and allow our situation to be destabilized for months or even years. We cannot be divided either in Poland or in the Union. Lukashenka wants to fight us, intimidate us, force us to talk to him, to consider him a partner of Poland and the EU. We can't let that happen. We will not be intimidated, and we will not be subjected to such blackmail. Although the PiS government loses today on all fronts: epidemics, inflation, costs, climate change or the protection of its own correspondence, Poland is our common good. At this hour of rehearsal as Poland 2050 we declare that we want to sit down with other political forces so that the crisis at the Polish-Belarusian border does not destabilize the entire state. We must act together and quickly. That is what we expect from the Prime Minister today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u24	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Jarosław Gowin, the Agreement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u25	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In this room. We often share a lot. Sometimes I felt that there was too much that was part of the theater, because we had a very basic thing in common. Each of us wants to serve Poland, wants to act for the sake of Poles and Poles. Today, our patriotism is subject to a special test. The Polish border, the sacred thing, is in real danger. The security of border regions, which I would like to say out loud, is in real danger, that the thoughts and feelings of all Poles are now with them. At times like today, we are committed to mutual solidarity over political divisions, and I think that this debate, from the speech of the Prime Minister, the ministers, to the speech of the opposition, is an illustration of the fact that we are capable of acting over political divisions. In a special way, we are committed to solidarity with thousands of officers and officers of the Border Guard, the Police and the Army. Let the words of support, admiration and pride come to you from the seat of the Polish Parliament, from the heart of our democracy. They are especially needed, because unfortunately, the Polish uniform has also been subject to shameful words lately. Of course, you need adequate support when it comes to equipment, logistical support, social-life support, and I believe, and even I am convinced after these speeches by the ministers, that the government will fully provide this support to you. Ladies and gentlemen! I speak as a representative of the group, which supported the introduction of a state of emergency and the construction of a barrier at the Polish-Belarusian border. Today you can see how right this support was. Unfortunately, however, our appeal to the government for help from international institutions was also correct. It was wrong that these calls were not heard, because perhaps there would not be another wave of voltage escalation. It is all the more important that the decision to internationalise the crisis should not wait any longer. The situation is more dramatic than it seems. What are the objectives of Lukashenka and his, let's call something by name, a criminal act? Not only destabilization of Poland and indirectly the rest of Europe. These objectives are also, as all points out, the creation of an excuse for the deployment of Russian troops near the western border of Belarus and the verification of NATO cohesion in the event of the resumption of fights in Ukraine. Standing here, I would like to say very clearly that the Agreement supports and will support the government in all reasonable and sometimes probably difficult decisions. At the same time, we expect a revision of foreign policy, an end to various senseless disputes with the European Union and with the United States. We also expect, as I said, to speak immediately to our allies asking for cooperation. Putting this into concrete terms, we expect the government to launch an initiative to tighten sanctions against the Lukashenka regime. It's already been mentioned. We expect this to be what President Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish said, that the Prime Minister will urgently initiate the European Council meeting. It's time not only to speak to our allies about launching the article. 4 of the North Atlantic Treaty, but it is also advisable to direct additional NATO units to our eastern border now. At the initiative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, representatives of the diplomatic corps of the Allied States should be invited to a study visit, as well as the attaché of the defence of our Allied States. It's time to invite the FRONTEX officers to the border. I would like to say very clearly that it is no longer possible to defend the ban on access to the border region for both Polish and Western journalists. Images transmitted by the world media will be the best proof of the rightness of Polish laws. I believe that listening by the government (the bell) to the voices of opposition communities will enable us to realize yesterday's request by Marshal Witek that we protect the interests of our homeland in a spirit of unity and solidarity. The deal will do anything to make it happen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u26	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u27	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Circle15 - Direct Democracy on government information on the situation at the Polish-Belarusian border and the actions taken. One of the most important responsibilities of the State towards its citizens is to ensure their safety. Today we face a great challenge when we should be a community. The events of the last days show clearly that defending the borders of Poland, the good name of Poland as a country that can take care of its own security, the security of its citizens, but also the security of the borders of the European Union, should unite all political forces. Art. 5 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland states that the Republic of Poland protects the independence and integrity of its territory. And today is the time when we must refer to this provision and which we should implement together. Calls to remove security at the border, to let people into Poland without knowing who they are, to organize political happenings on the border to collect more likenesses on social networks, throwing disgusting names at border guards, police officers, soldiers - unfortunately this is an example of actions against the security of the Polish state and its borders. That is why I am appealing for the need to come to terms and to maintain proper seriousness and peace. High Izbo! Once again, the High Chamber deals with the problem of hybrid war on our border with Belarus, the perfidious use of women and children as living shields to destabilize the situation of Poland. On 6 September, during the debate on the regulation of the President of the Republic of Poland on the introduction of a state of emergency in part of the Polish territory, we had a festival of unworthy speeches in this House, which underestimated the seriousness of the situation at the border with Belarus, as a result of which Members of the Civic Coalition, the Left, the Polish Coalition did not support the President's request to introduce a state of emergency. Similar shameful words in this House were made on 30 September when the High House was debating an extension of the state of emergency. Another festival of unworthy Polish parliamentarian speeches we heard on 14 October during the debate on the bill on construction of security at the state border. The question is what must happen so that some parliamentarians come to their senses and start to look a little more forward than the perspective of their own interests. Why do some politicians attack the services that provide them with security and civil rights? Do those who attack Polish troops, Border Guards and Police want to set up a second Belarus in Poland? The policy should be aware of the effects of its words, the effects of its decisions not on the next survey, but on the months, years, generations ahead. Speaking of the future, we should remember the mistakes of the past through which we lost our independence for 123 years, as well as the mistakes of the 1930s, which, due to severe internal conflicts, obscured our ancestors' impending mortal threat. We should also remember the humanitarian and social disaster that took place in the south of Europe in 2015 and 2016. At this point, I would like to remind you that as early as 2016 during the humanitarian crisis in southern Europe, members of the Kukiz club15 called on the government to secure funds in the state budget for the construction of a barrier at the eastern border in order to protect Poland from uncontrolled immigration. Today, unfortunately, part of the opposition still does not seem to notice the broader context and only focuses on the humanitarian aspect, in line with the objectives and strategy of the Lukashenka regime. We must be aware that the Lukashenka regime uses people as a tool to achieve its goal, which is to destabilise the Polish state and the European Union. High Izbo! Members of the Polish government support the Polish government's actions on action at the border with Belarus, while expressing their respect for all uniformed and civilian services, which, with health risks - hopefully not life - protect the Polish border. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u28	Thank you, sir. Mr Paweł Szramka, Polish Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u29	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, on behalf of the Polish Case Circle, I want to thank Border Guard officers, Police officers and soldiers today. Your work is conscientious, done in such a way that we can feel safe. Let us remember that every Pole who wears a uniform performs his duties conscientiously regardless of whether he is in charge of the PiS, whether he is governed by the Civic Platform or any other party. Let us respect this, and let us not allow responsibility for often wrong decisions of politicians to fall on them. I also want to thank all my speakers, because today I think that in this Chamber she has won the responsibility, which unfortunately we have not dealt with in the last few months, or perhaps years, because most often political speeches drag the line to their side to win some party business, not the interests of Poland. Today, at least until now, and I hope it will be so to the end, responsibility has won and there have been no such behavior. Prime Minister! I also thank you for your speech. It wasn't as political as it usually is. On the other hand, I have to put a pebble in the basket, because you often talk about this dialogue, you often talk about how you want to cooperate, you don't want us to interrupt. We don't want to interrupt, we want to work together, and it's hard for us to do that if there's no information on your part. Any information we receive comes from the media or from tweets of people who have better access to what is happening at the border. On 19 August, Prime Minister, as the Circle of Poselskie Polish Cases, we called for a joint meeting of the Prime Minister, members of the government with opposition. And although this rarely happens to me, I must commend the government for what was not so long ago, after the elections in Belarus, when the Prime Minister organized meetings with the opposition here. Those were really meaningful meetings. I must say, Prime Minister, that on your part, and on the opposition's side, there was always a substantive discussion during these meetings, and it should be noted that during the press conferences that took place after these meetings, also government and opposition representatives praised the fact that we could behind closed doors, without cameras, without media, talk in substance. Unfortunately, that's not there right now. That is why I call on us to return to this practice, because yesterday, fortunately, we fought back the first attack on our border, but I warn you that it is probably not over yet and we need to arm ourselves, we need to be prepared for the future as a whole parliament to resist it responsibly. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u30	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Sosnierz, Polish Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u31	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Definite defence of Polish borders, Polish home - of course yes, we support it. The decisive reinforcement of the services that are responsible for this, the security measures taken - all of this receives approval, acceptance of the High House, I hope, in its entirety. But what was lacking in the speeches? Unfortunately, they differed little in their content from what can be read in the media, so I am a little disappointed by the depth of the information obtained here today during this debate. But above all, there was no government position on whether we would only practice defensive policies and allow ourselves to fight, and we would protect ourselves from this fight, or we would take offensive action against Belarus. And I don't mean military action. There is a whole range of possible economic activities of all kinds, and I do not want to discuss this in detail at the moment. Are we just gonna defend ourselves? Is this little country finally going to put us on our knees, or are we going to take offensive action that will hurt Belarus? Because it's the right thing to do. And, of course, the second thing... Will we, once again, take offensive action? Otherwise, we'll just have to take defensive action. This is a question for the Prime Minister asking for an answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u32	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Łukasz Meiza, a non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u33	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Day after tomorrow, one of the most important days for each Polish woman and every Pole. When we celebrate the day of independence, the 103rd anniversary of the day on which the Polish borders appeared again on the maps, our troops, the Border Guard, the Police and the Territorial Defence Army will guard these today's borders. It is worth giving the floor to one of the fathers of independence, or Józef Piłsudski, who said words about 100 years ago, which are even more relevant today than in the times in which he lived: one of the curses of our life, one of the curses of our state building is that we have divided into several types of Poles, that we speak in one Polish language or even Polish words understand (...). Marshal Piłsudski fought for Poland when it was not formally there, and his goal was a country with sovereign borders. Today we have this country, but we must remember that this privilege also carries a powerful responsibility. The day after tomorrow's celebration of independence and we spend a lot of time talking about the way we celebrate this day. But I am convinced that if Marshal Piłsudski could ask us for something as parliamentarians, it would be an appropriate homage for him and for all other fathers of independent Poland to be our unity, national unity, unity in such a fundamental matter as the inviolability of Polish borders and security of Poles and Poles. And it's worth being united. Just look at the Lithuanians and Latvians, who by the wall of national solidarity stopped the gust of the eastern wind of terror that started Lukashenka and Putin. The pressure of the Belarusian regime on the games with Lithuania and Latvia has almost completely stopped, because there has been a national union and an alliance of rulers with the opposition on the defence of borders. Today, in the face of the biggest crisis after 1989, we need to be clear about whether we choose security and sovereignty, whether we choose submission and danger, whether we stand on the side of the Polish uniform or on the side of a Minsk terrorist, or whether we support those who proudly bear the traditions of the Legions and the National Army, or whether we help the successors of the marketplace. It's a day of rehearsal for the whole political class, and I believe that this patriotic and civic exam is going to be passed by all of us, including the opposition. At this point I appeal to the whole political class: Let us remember those who have shown that they are a model of patriotism, and from the very beginning effectively defend our security. Let us respect them, be grateful to them, and support them in every way possible. This is the Polish army, the police, the Border Guard and the Territorial Defence Army. For this service, for these actions on behalf of all Poles and Poles I wanted to thank them warmly. Ladies and gentlemen, with the wall behind the Polish uniform. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u34	Thank you very much. We're opening a series of questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. I'm assigning time - 1 minute to ask a question. The first question is asked by Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u35	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Green folks, private troops, weekends in uniform, kamikaze troops, WOTs playing military. These hurtful terms - today we see how hurtful - fell from the mouth of opposition representatives. There were also proposals to liquidate WOTs, the words of President Kosiniak-Kamish. Today we are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about joint action and agreement. We are all in favour, but these declarations will only be authentic at the moment when they fall out of your mouth is a very basic word: I'm sorry. This is, ladies and gentlemen, the time and best place to say this word. I would like to thank the soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army, who already had courage during the pandemic, and today are characterized by huge heroism, supporting professional soldiers of the Polish Army. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Dear soldiers, thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u36	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask Members of the House to have a quiet conversation because they really can't hear anything. Please, Mr Bartłomiej Sienkiewicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u37	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today the Prime Minister and Minister Błaszczak were among the soldiers at the border and held a press conference there. Tonight, this courtroom has confirmed with applause that it honors the uniforms and the soldiers. But, Prime Minister, have you been familiar with the living conditions of the soldiers, do you know the rotation, do you know if it's true that they've been started now because of the costs from the fixed rooms to the tents and containers? Do you know the level of post-traumatic stress these soldiers are experiencing right now? It's very easy to worship the Polish uniform, but you have to take care of people in these uniforms. [[Applause]] And here we have serious doubts whether the whole story about the important service of Polish soldiers has its roots in the conditions of their lives... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the Chamber: You are speaking untruthful, sir.]] ... because the signals in this case are highly disturbing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u38	Thank you, sir. Minister Błaszczak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u39	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to stress that the Member has been saying the wrong thing. Everything you've presented is a lie. [[Applause]] [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: As always.]] [[He asked.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u40	I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. Mr Przemysław Koperski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u41	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Two weeks ago, together with a group of parliamentarians and a large group of journalists, I was at the border, on the physical border between Belarus and Lithuania. I spoke with the officers of Frontex, who were Poles who were posted from the garrison in the Silesian Voivodeship, who, of course, deserve great respect and admiration for the hard and reliable work they do at the Belarusian-Lithuanian border on the north-eastern border of the European Union. I wanted to ask, Prime Minister, why there can't be Lithuanians in Poland, there can be Latvians, Estonians, Swedes who, within the framework of Frontex, have guarded our border, but also would guarantee that all rights and standards are respected in Poland. Just like this happens, among other things. in Lithuania, which the Prime Minister mentioned. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There can be journalists, and parliamentarians from other countries, and soldiers, FRONTEX officers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u42	Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u43	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! Your speech lacked information about a very important tool used in situations like our country. That's what I call it. the readmission procedure used in the past by other countries that have met have collided with the wave of immigration. I wanted to ask whether the Polish State is considering this scenario today, whether a readmission option is being prepared, i.e. the rapid organisation of exports to the home countries of those who came here illegally. Second question, Prime Minister. But isn't it worth considering Frontex's involvement? Because sometimes the number of officers isn't as important as their experience as what they've been through in the past. Frontex is an excellent organisation that identifies and coordinates, for example, the readmission procedure. Are you expressly resigning from Frontex's aid? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u44	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u45	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Specific questions about a political solution: Do we want to be at the end of the world in the war behind the upward fence, or are we going to do something? Second question about borders with Ukraine. After all, all we have in Kuźnica is a pilot program. Several hundred, in kidnappings even to a few thousand refugees, invaders, this is a pilot program. This is where you test our ability and responsiveness. So what about the Ukrainian section, and possibly Slovak, if the next wave goes to Slovakia through Ukraine? And neither Mr Sienkiewicz brother nor matchmaker, but Minister, and I have reports that the 21st Podhale soldiers must go to the nearest store to buy something to eat. Is this really how we care about our strength in this responsible episode?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u46	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Zalewski, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u47	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The worst thing that can happen to us is to turn this conflict into a long-term crisis at the border, a crisis that will permanently destabilise Poland and the European Union. And I say this in a situation where Prime Minister and Minister Kaminski, as if they had announced such a situation today, as if they had assumed that there were no political instruments to resolve this crisis. There they are. Belarus is too strongly linked to the European Union to ensure that serious, really serious sanctions do not force Lukashenka to stop this shameful practice of migratory pressure. But that requires a change in your policy. This requires a serious discussion with the European partners, it requires a serious discussion with the most important countries of the European Union in Brussels (the bell), it requires political will and this possibility exists. That's the will we're running out of in this room today. Prime Minister, why? Explain this to the Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u48	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Agreement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u49	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the inhabitants of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, inhabitants of cities, towns and villages, I wanted to thank the police, soldiers, Border Guards for what they are doing for Poland. But I also wanted to ask the Prime Minister and the people responsible for what is happening at the border when exactly they will be admitted to the media service border, i.e. when accredited Polish and foreign journalists will be able to report on what is actually happening. This is really necessary for all inhabitants, for everyone, not just Kujaw and Pomerania. Thank you. [[Voice from the room: More lies.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u50	Thank you very much. Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u51	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The situation at the border is indeed very serious. 13,000. Soldiers are mostly 18 soldiers. Mechanized Division, Iron Division. That's also 16. Mechanized Division, that's also 12. Szczecin Division Mechanized, they're also 11 soldiers. The Lubusian Armored Cavalry Division is also the Territorial Defence Army. Indeed, it is the personal decision of Minister Błaszczak of 2018 to appoint 18. Mechanized Division, very right, very responsible decision. This is an extremely responsible decision by Minister Macierewicz to appoint a Territorial Defence Army. I would like to ask you, Mr Błaszczak, to remind you of all these actions aimed at (the bell) strengthening the presence of the Polish army on the eastern wall. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u52	Thank you very much. Marshal Kidawa-Błońska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u53	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The situation is indeed very serious. Today we hear these calls for unity and cooperation. This is very important, but for this to happen, we need access to information, to know what's happening at the border. That is why it is so important to issue accreditation to Polish journalists and foreign journalists. By introducing a state of emergency, you restricted the access of journalists. In fact, we are left with a one-sided, objective picture that represents the Lukashenka regime. We're left with images that come from them. We can't verify that in any way. The world is surprised that in such an important situation, in such an important and serious situation, world media cannot report this in the well-understood interest of our country, Poland's security and security of Europe. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That is why I wanted to ask: When will you restore the possibility for journalists to participate in activities at the border? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u54	Thank you. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Lewis Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u55	The crisis at the Polish-Belarusian border is getting more and more excited, because there is no government effort to reach the people of the Middle East with information about what is really happening at the border and that potential migrants have virtually no chance to reach Poland and other countries of the European Union with the help of Lukashenka. The situation is dramatic. The Iraqis, Syrians and others, without any information on what is happening, are deceived by the Lukashenka regime, that they will go to the promised land, so they sell out all their possessions, travel with their families and eventually reach a zone between Belarusian and Polish bordermen, from which there is no way out. And winter's getting closer. So I ask: How does the government plan to reach out effectively to the people of the Middle East with a warning not to come, because not only will they not get where they want to go, but they will also put their lives, their health and their freedom at risk? Does the government intend to regularly post information material in the most important media in the Middle East, especially film media, to see the sufferings of those who have been deceived by Lukashenka? [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]] Thank you very much. This would make people aware of their real destiny if they took advantage of Lukashenka's lying offer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u56	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you very much. And please, Mrs Urszula Pasławska, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u57	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, today, the key to this discussion is both responsibility, solidarity and the future, and I think it is important for all of us, no matter how this debate goes down, that we come out stronger and able to speak with one voice outside. It is in this spirit that I would like to ask two questions to the Prime Minister. Firstly, do you plan to make a proposal, ask the President of the European Council to convene a summit? We know that Charles Michel will be in Poland on Wednesday. [[Voice from the hall: Tomorrow will be in Poland.]] Is it your goal to sit down together and work out a common strategy? Second question. Does the Prime Minister or does the government assume a party or allow the admission of troops, police from other countries - we know that Germany (the Bell) has recently offered it - or do you think that the Prime Minister is able to help himself? And the last sentence. Today we know the situation at the border, but tomorrow it will be absolutely uncertain, so we should be prepared for different options and we should not... Thank you very much. ...and today we should resist and work with other countries to work together to develop the best, safest strategy for Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u58	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u59	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister Kaminski said here that in June you knew what was going on, what was the planned action. In August, I appealed to the Border Guard in Bialystok to build a permanent firewall and to proceed immediately. It's November, which is three months after my roll call, and it'll be almost six months after you knew this operation was under preparation. And you're announcing that this wall will begin to rise next year. That's not a serious approach. Lithuanians already build a permanent dam, have a more difficult situation, have a 200 km longer boundary and many times smaller forces. This needs to be done immediately, and unfortunately you are taking on the issue of border protection with inherent inability, because if these fires are more attacks than today (the bell), if it is many thousands of people at different points, then you will simply lose this case. [[You're gonna lose?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u60	Thank you very much. Mr... [[Game in the O.R.]] Very much so, Mrs... [[We're gonna lose?]] Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm in the courtroom. [[The voice from the courtroom: And you will win.]] [[Voice from the room: Russian option.]] Mr Wojciech Maximowicz, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u61	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! In medicine, in plumbing, but also in other emergency situations, in a situation where the tank next to us is overflowing, there are two mechanisms of action. My first question is, what measures have been taken to close the supply to this tank? Technically speaking, I mean. There were actually these voices. What measures are being taken to disgust potential smugglers, and how are these people told not to come? The second possibility is simply also controlled drainage drain. We know that Lukashenka is not very interested in this. Are logistical preparations being made so that there can be some channels to lead people to the airports from which they will be deported, and will these countries accept them? Is it simply this type of option? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: He'll go into the sewers.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u62	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Magdalena Sroka, the Agreement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u63	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! This is an unprecedented situation in which Polish borders are threatened. Today from this place I would like to thank all officers of the Border Guard, the Police and the Polish Army very warmly. Colleagues, we are proud of you and we know that it is security that we owe to you and your attitude at the border. Today we know that this situation will be dragging on, and it will not end in a few days. That's why I'd like to ask you a question. Since the services are distributed to the Polish border from various garrisons, I am talking here about the Police, the officers from the garrisons are headed to the border for two or three days, and then return to their units. Then, within a few days, they will go to Warsaw to secure the Independence Day. I would like to find out (the bell) and ask if you are planning to increase the armed forces, the number of Polish soldiers at the border, so that police officers in their tasks can focus... [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]] Thank you very much, Member. ...to meet the targets on the premises of their garrisons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u64	Thank you very much, Member. Here you go, Mr Jarosław Zieliński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u65	It is very important that in such a clear, consistent and decisive way we today expressed our appreciation, our gratitude to the soldiers and officers who guard the Polish border, the border with Belarus. They express their special gratitude towards them, as well as to the Polish government, residents of the Podlaskie voivodship, and especially border areas, those who are most vulnerable in terms of their safety. [[Applause]] But they, locals, almost without exception, residents, citizens also support these services, support the army, which performs its tasks in very difficult conditions - after all, it is a continuous service at the border. And in their contacts with me as a member of this area, they also ask questions about what else they could do, what local government officials could do, and ask about it by firefighters volunteers from CSR, hunters, foresters, how they can still get involved in this work, because they will recognize it as our common (Dawn) Polish case. Maybe a message would be worth giving them? Perhaps there would be some activity on their part, and it would be desirable? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[What can hunters do?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u66	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Marcin Kierwiński, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u67	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister, in your speech you described the situation, only a little too little for the Prime Minister of the Polish Government. We would expect, Poles would expect some real solutions, to present these solutions. We have not learned from you, nor what action you have taken to stop the Lukashenka regime, nor what you intend to do. We have learned nothing about how you intend to internationalise this problem. The conviction of Poland for self-insulation in this case is merely the outrage of Lukashenka and his protector from the Kremlin. I want to ask a very specific question, and it is addressed to someone who did not appear on this speaker, namely Minister Ziobra. You are talking about trafficking - and we all see it - in human trafficking carried out by the Belarusian regime. So far, have you issued any international (Ringing) indictment? Is anyone in this procedure being hunted? Have you done anything to put an end to the actions of the Lukashenka regime? Thank you very much, sir. Did you do anything besides the words? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u68	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Trela, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u69	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that there's a very powerful and serious crisis is what we all know. We also know that the state of emergency introduced more than 2 months ago did not solve too many problems. But we also know that the left introduced Poland to NATO and to the European Union in order to benefit from the support of our Western friends in such situations. That is why I have a question for the Prime Minister: What actions have you taken in relation to NATO and the European Commission in recent months? How many proposals, how many requests, how many requests have you made to the European Commission about support, securing our Polish border, but also the border of the European Union? Will the fact that you are offended by the European Union in terms of wide-ranging access to finance also lead to a feeling of security for our country's citizens and the protection of our Polish borders? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u70	Thank you, sir. Ms Urszula Nowogórska, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u71	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! We're discussing security. We are talking about the security of Poland, about international security, about the Polish cause of state, about public order, about public security, about order and security, about personal security, about the security of all citizens and of all officers. And speaking of which, I wanted to ask... Ladies and gentlemen, on 19 February 2004, by Regulation 377/2004, the liaison officers of Frontex were empowered to maintain communication between Member States and to take operational and strategic action. I wanted to ask from this place, Prime Minister, if you intend, ladies and gentlemen, to exercise your authority and the work of operational officers. My second question: Are all the officers who serve at the border properly taken care of and have psychological, social, social and human care? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one more question: What about the Department of Migration Analysis? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u72	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u73	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! His Excellency Mateusz Morawiecki said: The President of Russia is behind all this. His Excellency Vladimir Putin is conducting a policy of building a great Russia, and yesterday he saw a huge success on this path. Belarus won't get away with it, it'll be connected to Russia. And you're the success you've made. It was you who attacked Lukashenka without giving him any chance to defend his independence. Only Donald Trump... [[A voice from the room: No!]] ...he wanted to help Lukashenka and sent Mr Pompeo here, but Donald Trump lost the election and Lukashenka faced a situation where he had no choice but to join Russia. And you are the authors of this success. Two years from now, there won't be $3,000 on the Russian border. refugees, or about that, only there will be a powerful Russian army. And that's your responsibility, you did it. Instead of helping Lukashence, you were harassing him.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u74	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u75	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! State borders must not be crossed in violation of the law, they must be protected. The safety of the country is paramount. Prime Minister, it is worth giving up the narrative that the opposition thinks otherwise. Cross the line with the need to cooperate with the opposition, that's what we need. Cross the line between the need for cooperation with the European Union and this cooperation is also necessary. Cross the border and allow humanitarian aid. Start working with the groups, the associations that specialize in it. That's also needed. Let the press do the work. Crossing the line of this ban is a necessity, Prime Minister. There are independent observers at the border. Cross the line of your own weaknesses in these matters. Prime Minister, is this possible? And one more question. In a dozen days, the state of emergency will cease to exist. What's next? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u76	Thank you, sir. Mr Stanisław Bukowiec, Agreement. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u77	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to express my great respect and thanks to all the officers of the Border Guard, to the police officers, to the soldiers of the Polish Army who guard our border. Security experts indicate that one of the next steps of the Belarusian regime will be to direct immigrants to Poland's borders through the territory of Ukraine. I have a question: What Polish state and its services are taking steps to secure the Polish-Ukrainian border in this situation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u78	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Bartus, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u79	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! First of all, I would like to thank your marshal very warmly for today's debate because, in my opinion, the Poles needed this very much. We are all afraid of this situation, and the disinformation that flows from different directions makes this situation even more difficult. That is why it is very good that we are discussing this important problem today. But it is necessary to make it sound here again that we are talking about the Polish-Belarusian border, but we are also talking about the Polish border, the European Union, the Schengen border with Belarus. And that is why I have a question for the Minister of Defence: Is the Ministry in contact with other countries, allies from NATO, but also with other defence ministers from the European Union? What is the approach of these ministries to the situation that is taking place at the border (Bell) of Belarus and Schengen? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u80	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Schetyna, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u81	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is an important debate, and we all agree on that. I just wanted to ask and find out why the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Polish Government is not taking part in such an important debate. [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] But that it is, I know it. And it is all the more surprising that he does not speak on this issue, and the issue concerns Polish foreign policy and European foreign policy. It is your duty, Minister, to speak on this matter. To tell you what foreign policy is like, [[Applause]] what the Polish activity looks like on this issue and what are the ideas of our diplomacy to make this matter European, trans-regional. [[Applause]] This is a bond for the Polish Minister of Foreign Affairs. You don't do that. It was always the case that, at important moments, when 2008 President Kaczyński took the presidents of neighbouring countries (the bell) to Georgia, to Tbilisi, or when Minister Sikorski and Ministers Steinmeier and Fabius were in 2014 in Kiev... We expect your activity, we expect the activity of the Polish government in this matter. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u82	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Robert Obaz, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u83	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! At this extremely difficult moment for your security, I would like to thank the officers of the Border Guard, the Police and the Polish Army for your service to your country in the migration crisis caused by the Lukashenka and Putin regimes. Thanks to your work and commitment, the people of our country can feel safe. Prime Minister! Is Poland considering calling a NATO consultation because of the threat of territorial integrity by hybrid activities by the Belarusian side? Is Poland considering accepting the assistance of our partners from the European Union in protecting the European Union's external border, including Frontex? How much strength and to what extent does the government intend to deploy at the border with Belarus? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u84	Thank you. Mrs Bożena Ironowska, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u85	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The situation on our eastern border is getting worse every day, and it's getting worse every day. Our citizens, Poles, are very concerned, they do not have reliable information. Despite many of our appeals to this border, journalists are still not allowed. I have a question for the government: In addition to building a wall that will rise in a closer or further perspective, what is the government's plan for today, what are you proposing today? Our citizens are concerned. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u86	Thank you. Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u87	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! In corporate slang, every time a meeting is held, about which we do not know why it was held, the question is why this meeting was not sent to us by e-mail. And a little bit of that impression can be felt, as we have heard these speeches. First, we had the Prime Minister's speech, which was actually about thanking him for his great commitment to the case, and I'm sure the Prime Minister will thank him for that. Then we had speeches that actually didn't show anything, except what we already know from Facebook, from Twitter, from YouTube, from the reports we have. We learn more from recordings that go online than today from this meeting that we were specifically called to hear something new, sensational. There is no political plan, there is no plan here for what our diplomacy will do. We didn't hear anything here. So I'm wondering if there's gonna be a punch line at the end and if we're gonna hear something meaningful at the end. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u88	Thank you. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u89	I rarely agree with the Confederation, but this time, yes. Dear Prime Minister, The residents of the emergency zone have been abandoned by the state. They're loaded, but they don't have backup. Migrants show up in their neighborhood, people help them, cook them, give them their own money. They don't know what to say to children when they see people hunting. The burden of crisis management in the humanitarian crisis region has fallen on the shoulders of the inhabitants, and that is a fact. Prime Minister! Where's the Podlaskie Voivodeship? Why isn't she coordinating crisis management? Why do local government officials have to call the former voivode Maciej Żywny, who, as a firefighter with CSR, provides medical assistance and assist volunteers there? What's going on out there anyway? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u90	Thank you. Mr Michał Drink, Agreement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u91	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I don't know if those dozens of seconds are enough to claim those who are a real security barrier and guarantee our safety. I mean, of course, border guards, military and police officers, because in connection with the numerous signals and appeals from these officers... They ask for support, but not only technical, they also pay attention to the need for psychological support. It is about those officers who are subjected to very difficult trials and tragic choices day after day, as well as their families, who have to tremble every day for their lives and safety. Therefore, I have a question of when and how the government will psychologically support the officers and their families, so that after this sacrificial service we will not only have a thunderous applause in this room, just as it did in the situation of medical personnel. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u92	Thank you. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u93	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! They run around like kids in a sandbox and play with wooden guns. So, ladies and gentlemen, where do you think this quote might come from? Not from a fairy tale or from a children's book. These words were made in this House during a debate on the creation of the Territorial Defence Forces in 2017. Mr. and Mrs. Parliamentarians! It was a very good move, thoughtful, calculated to strengthen the defence of our country, our homeland. Today, in the face of illegal immigration at the border with Belarus, which is led by Lukashenko, it seems that none of us have any doubt as to the validity of the decision of the Law and Justice Government, the United Right on the establishment of the Territorial Defence Army. Always ready, always close. Many times they have shown how helpful and effective they are. Not only on a daily basis, but especially in the face of a natural disaster. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister! What are the actions of the Territorial Defence Forces? After all, many of them are border residents. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u94	Thank you, Member. Barbara Nowacka, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u95	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Words, words, words. Where are the actions? That's all the Prime Minister talks about, and you don't let the media in. Your media is still running a hostile campaign towards the opposition. End up with an enemy campaign on TVP. You talk so much about Christianity, and we see the crisis of humanity at the border. [[Applause]] [[Enough with the lies.]] Let humanitarian organizations in to help those you're supposed to care about, children and pregnant women. That's all you're talking about. You're listening, Prime Minister. Member, please continue, please. But I'm talking to the Prime Minister. Prime Minister! You talk so much about cooperation, you talk so much about international campaigns. Start working with the European Union and NATO. Words aren't enough. If you are talking about the support of our soldiers and troops, choose the strongest ones, the best-prepared ones, the well-equipped ones, the equipment of those who are there today, provide them with psychological assistance, but first of all, let us preserve humanity as the Republic (the Bell). [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u96	Thank you, Member. Mrs Monica Falej, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u97	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! The Lukashenka regime does what it wants to do at the border. It's a fact. The PiS government is not dealing with the humanitarian crisis at the Polish-Belarusian border. It's a fact. The absent president of the PiS formation is not taking any action. He does not convene the National Security Council, as requested by the Left. He's not in such a difficult, crisis situation. It's also a fact. It is also a fact that you sent a woman to the war for the Polish Eastern border. The Marshal of the Sejm, who is called by the Sejm as part of his arms. And now we're here to debate how to save the border. Therefore, I have a question of what concrete measures have been taken by the government, diplomacy, president, marshal to stop the Lukashenka regime. Have contracts for the purchase of drones for the Polish Army, which is being sent to the Polish-Belarusian border, been discontinued? Have purchases of other products and services from Belarus stopped? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And when will the PC be allowed to provide humanitarian aid to those in need at the border? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u98	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u99	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Poles expect from the Polish state security, which will be expressed not only by the right decisions of the state institutions, but above all by a simple sense of security, which can be expressed by an impartial media relationship or by the agreement and solidarity of all the parties who sit in this Chamber. But do we have a sense of security today? That question should be answered by the Prime Minister. In a clear way to the specific questions of the opposition. Today, for the first time in six years, we have a serious debate in which no one has offended anyone, rather than tried to offend anyone and certainly failed to offend them. It's worth asking for specifics. At what stage are talks with countries where airlines are registered, which lease aircraft for Belarus? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The specific question is: At what stage are the talks with Turkey, whose airports have become a connecting point on the migration route? And a very important question: will we make a request for a European summit on the security of our border? I'm asking you to answer these questions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u100	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u101	In September, during the previous discussion on the border, our fellow Members handed out proposals to Members of the Left and the Civic Coalition to accept the immigrants they had designated. I would like to ask how many requests have been sent to the voivodships so far. [[Applause]] Doesn't the government need any help? 'Cause I'm guessing these are some big amounts, judging by the scale of enthusiasm a month ago when it comes to receiving immigrants. And second question. Unfortunately, the border recordings show people destroying our border devices forcefully pushing our border in front of passively looking soldiers or border guards. In one of the films we see a Polish soldier jumping backwards before the stroke of a sword from a man. How much longer are we gonna let this happen, and we're just gonna passively tolerate it? What are the orders regarding the use of weapons in such a situation against aggressors? Why can it be easy in Poland to shoot at demonstrators or journalists on the Independence March (The Bell) and not to shoot immigrants who push our border? I have no doubt what would happen to such people on the Israeli border, and what we see here, unfortunately, is more and more similar to the annexation of Crimea, as Ukrainian soldiers under arms were merely looking at green people taking over their province. Right now, the only penalty for destroying our border equipment, the only penalty for illegal border crossing, is that it won't work, and if it doesn't work, we go back to the start and try again. Mr President, time is up. How much longer are we going to tolerate this, and are there any plans to use weapons?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u102	Please, Mrs Anna Milczanowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u103	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A lot of questions are being asked here today, and there is usually such an understatement on the part of the opposition that you have not heard much, but we know very well that we cannot hear these most important things. We know very well that our special forces know more or less what's going to happen, because they're working on it... [[Voice from the room: We don't know.]] ...and you'd like to hear it here, you'd like everything on a tray, so we'll automatically give this information on a tray to Mr. Lukashenka, Mr. Putin. [[Yes, sir.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The same is true of matters relating to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. After all, this information also passes through the media, and they tell the Deputy Minister about it. The Minister has already returned to us, and we are very happy to have him recovered. You know there are talks with individual countries, where immigrants come from, that some flights have been suspended. So that (the bell) a little trust and in fact it is good that today is a fairly peaceful discussion. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u104	Thank you, Member. Mr Paweł Kowal, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u105	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! You know well that a greater friend than the truth does not exist, and the truth is this - I address Poles and Poles, those who listen to us - that there was no new proposal in this room today. [[Applause]] The truth is, ladies and gentlemen, we as opposition want to help if there's any meaningful government project. I know that if this meeting continues, they will challenge us from traitors, insult us, say that we do not want to cooperate, so I use this minute to say to Poles: we feel like you, we would like to help solve this situation, we know how to do it, we want to motivate this government in any way, and if it starts working, we will settle for these bad things in a few years, maybe faster, but now we want to force this government to work. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a spirit of insincereness hovering over this room. See what the members of this government (the bell) have said about the European Union or what the Members of the Government camp have said. They said that the European Union is like Nazi Germany, and today they say they are trying to work with the Union. Take it all into account. Nothing's gonna help us as much today, Prime Minister, as a little bit of truth. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u106	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u107	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The humanitarian crisis at the border has already taken five months, and it is not apparent after today's meeting, after today's speeches from the government, that there is an idea of how to resolve this situation effectively. Meanwhile, in the European Union, our partners have effective mechanisms and will to come with help. Latvia and Lithuania have benefited from this aid today and the problem has therefore been resolved. Exactly a year ago, the European Commission adopted a new long-awaited Pact on Migration and Asylum, which introduces many effective mechanisms, including financial and logistical mechanisms. Why doesn't Poland benefit from this? Push back method is a cruel and ineffective method. Its application occurred on the Latvian or Lithuanian border. It was an incident, not a method, it became a method for us. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It doesn't have to be that way. The Pact, which I mention, contains mechanisms such as shortening the asylum procedure, such as giving the countries concerned the migration crisis measures... Thank you very much, Member. ...even though there is a broad propaganda and information campaign in the countries of origin of migrants. I could take longer to calculate these possibilities. I hope the government knows them and will finally benefit from them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u108	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to keep time discipline. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u109	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Today is an important meeting. We often hear about the need for cooperation, the willingness to cooperate. It is necessary, but it must be the will of the rulers as well. You often speak here, you use the example of Lithuania. I also had the opportunity to be in Lithuania, to talk to border guards, to police officers, to paramedics from Poland. As part of their cooperation with Frontex, they were there. There's no need to hide everything. There's a need for that. We have a state of emergency that makes everything impossible. I have a question: Why couldn't I go to the border as a citizen of the Podlaskie Voivodeship, meet, see what it looks like, and I had this opportunity in Lithuania as part of our Polish-Lithuania Assembly? Do you have anything to hide? After all, the more we know (the bell), the easier it will be to make decisions and this cooperation will be better. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Lithuania has introduced a state of emergency today.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u110	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Krystian Kaminski, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u111	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We've talked a lot today about what's going on today, but we should be debating what's gonna happen next month in a couple of months. Therefore, I have two questions. First of all, the emergency question, because we know it's about to end. And then what? Aren't these sharpenings needed anymore? Do you have any other idea what's next after this state of emergency ends? And the second topic, of course. If we seal the border, the entire immigrant movement will go to Ukraine. Are we talking to the Ukrainian state to prevent what happens next? Because I think we all agree that the Ukrainian state can't handle this problem alone. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u112	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u113	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The European Union sees that we were right, and thank you for defending the border well. But does the Polish opposition see it? The hope that, in the face of such a serious threat, reflection would finally occur, unfortunately turned out to be flaming. The platform that denied all the government's actions so far, the grids, the state of emergency, the dam, everything was on them, today flips the cat's tail and talks about the lack of dialogue with the government. The Left proposes open borders and building a diplomatic wall. I understand that this wall will protect us from throwing stones by intruders, that they will throw stones at our soldiers with greater grace and dignity. This is irresponsible. I have a question for the ministers: Are apart from the pizza escapads and two sleeping bags, just in front of the cameras, or besides calling to let these people in, and only then determine who (the bell) they are, anyone from the total opposition showed support or willingness to help Polish soldiers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u114	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u115	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister Błaszczak! I don't know, may I have a moment of your time? Minister, I'm addressing you... [[Hello, hello.]] Minister! Do you remember when we, as the opposition, were talking about when you proposed to introduce further states of emergency, that this is a bad instrument, that it would not have the desired effect? I hope you remember that. According to our announcements, neither the first nor the second state of emergency had the desired effect. You wrote yourself in the draft law on the construction of the wall that it's getting worse. And then we talked about a wall that you didn't put up until today. We said: let us use this, remember that the Polish-Belarusian border is the border of the European Union, let us use diplomacy, let us use information, let us try to reach out to those people who want to leave their countries. I am very pleased that today, for the first time, Prime Minister Morawiecki (Dawn) noticed that we are talking about the European Union's border, but I cannot understand two things: why do you not want to ask for the support of the Union, NATO, all international institutions? [[But don't discipline me.]] The second, equally important question: What prevents you, why do you not want to let journalists in, why are you afraid of journalists? [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u116	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Sekuła-Szmajdzińska, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm sorry, but I'm not a total opposition. I wanted to say something that I think is important, and I want to remind all of you. Well, Poland will be chairing the OSCE, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe very soon at the beginning of next year. It is a very important organization, which includes 57 countries, among others. Russia, Belarus, but also Canada, the United States and Asian countries, which many people probably don't even know about. I'm going back to the subject I tried to take on September 30th, but then I didn't make it because I only had 30 seconds. Have we taken any so-called. Bypass actions to try to talk? Once we take the presidency of the OSCE, it will be absolutely real. Let us prepare to try to talk to countries that (the bell) may have some influence on Russia and Belarus. Different actions are needed, from different sides, and I call very strongly for this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u118	Thank you very much, madam. Mr Czesław Siekierski, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. Here you go, Chess.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u119	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The Prime Minister said that the situation was envisaged and that the Security Committee had taken appropriate action. What were the actions, because the difficult situation at the border does not confirm this good preparation? Today, there is a unique unity in the courtroom, and there is great support for the government's actions. What plan, what strategy do you want to pursue to use exceptional trust and support? Is it aware that Poland will not solve this problem alone? You need diplomatic action, you can say, putting the whole situation at the European, international level, in order to force not only Lukashenka and Belarus... It is also about action on the side (the bell) of Putin, on the side of Russia, because we know that both levels are very strongly connected? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u120	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Tuduj, near the Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u121	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Some of the measures taken by the PiS government in this situation are, of course, right. On the other hand, there is one basic charge that we maintain, or delay. When it comes to building an effective, proper barrier, we should feel that it is really too late. The honourable Prime Minister defended this installation that the refugees had disassembled, I don't know at what time, but it looked like half an hour. I think it is not enough for the Prime Minister of the Polish Government to speak with satisfaction about such security. We called for tempo, we called for the right dam in time. And what does it turn out to be? Ladies and gentlemen, in December afternoon these constructions will only begin and will end in June or unknown when. So the question is: How does it (the bell) look like today, how quickly you will build and when will you finally take the initiative? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u122	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Milewski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u123	Dear Marshal, Gentlemen of Ministers! This situation, of course, is, as has been mentioned many times here, also unique to the local border communities, for the inhabitants of Poland, who have their everyday life located just on the border area with Belarus. This also applies to the functioning of local governments and cooperation with local authorities. Minister, ministers, what is this everyday co-operation between Polish services and local governments, both with regional governments of the Podlaskie Voivodeship and Lublin Voivodeship, as well as with individual municipalities, in terms of co-operation with both the Border Guard and the units subordinate to the Ministry of National Defence? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u124	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Szłapka, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are talking about Polish security, about the right state. Your marshal rightly calls for unity and caution. Unfortunately, it is very difficult to believe in your good intentions, because your method is a lie and abuse. And that's a fact, because that's what court orders are for. This is political conflict and political methods should also be resolved. Therefore, today, when we are talking here about security and the right state, I ask: Why is Frontex not involved in this crisis? And I'm not talking about the power of officers here, I'm talking about politics. That's what the Polish officers want, talk to them. Why are not other EU institutions involved in this conflict and in this crisis? Why is this crisis not internationalized? Where's the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Where are bilateral talks also about sanctions, about blocking flights to Belarus? And what's most important. You're talking about unity here. Did you do one thing to make a deal? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Where's the National Security Council meeting? Where is the meeting at KPRM, such as that which the Prime Minister called last year during the Belarusian crisis? You know what you're doing, not what you're saying. And the thing is, you don't want this unity... Thank you very much. ...and you are ready to use every crisis and every tragedy for your political interests. That's the truth, unfortunately. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u126	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Wiesław Szczepański, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u127	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On this side, I would like to thank all officers of uniform services performing their duty and service today at the Polish-Belarusian border. But I have a few questions, Prime Minister. Is Poland discussing with the European Union not only financial but also diplomatic, hardware support to address this problem? Can you assure Poles that by moving so many resources, equipment and people into this area - troops, police, border guards - will not harm our country's security in other parts of Poland? How do we secure the Ukrainian border so that there will not be the same situation as we have today at the Polish-Belarusian border? Are we prepared for a massive influx of immigrants as regards the number of places in closed and open centres? Are we asking the European Union for measures to build them? And one last question. It's time, Prime Minister, it's passing quickly. December 2nd will end in a state of emergency. Do we have an idea (the bell) after December 2nd? Is it true, as border residents say, that after 2 December you want to introduce martial law in this border area? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u128	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Bejda, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u129	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I'm a member of the National Defence Committee. Therefore, from this place I would like to thank all soldiers and officers of all services for what they do for us, Poles, guarding the honor and border of the Republic of Poland. I would like to say that the Lukashenka regime is using immigrants who want to enter the countries of the European Union. It's obvious. Today there are several thousand at the border, and tomorrow there may be tens of thousands of immigrants. If there's water in the house and there's a flood, it's not just sealing up one of the rooms that's in danger of flooding, but it's generally shutting off the influx of water. Hence my question: Prime Minister, will you talk to the European Union's leadership to demand a clear declaration that every single (Bell) illegal immigrant who enters the European Union will be deported to his homeland? I think that if such a declaration were to be made, it would first of all address the issue of the influx of immigrants into Belarus. Next question. Would you ask the European Union... Thank you very much. ...to participate in the costs of creating a barrier at the Polish-Belarusian border? Because it's also... Thank you very much, sir. ...the eastern border of the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u130	Thank you. Mr Michał Urbaniak, near the Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u131	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! First of all - I'm probably not the first - we need to thank our officers for acting, trying to ensure the security of Poles, despite the pressure that the left side puts on them, to keep them from following orders, [[Applause]] I want them to ignore what's actually theirs. But on the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, we also have a situation where the government's actions are very late. As Members of the Confederation, we have written an interpellation on whether the European Union will participate in the cost of building safeguards. Unfortunately, we didn't get an answer. I expect that answer today. We also need to remember that we need specific sanctions to stop Lukashenka, so that it also hurts him economically. So whether the government will act in such a way that economic sanctions are also introduced, among others. concerning transit through Belarus? Because if it hurts him, then in this case (the bell) maybe he will give up, and they should at least defy his actions on our border as well. By the way, I'll just remind Minister Błaszczak... Thank you very much, sir. I'm almost done. ...that action for immigrants and responsible immigration in Poland is unfortunately not the work of your government... Thank you very much for the second time. ...because you brought 1,600 grand. immigrants to Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u132	Thank you very much for the third time. [[It's not immigrants. It's workers.]] [[Immigrants.]] Mr Jerzy Polakzek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u133	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think that each of us, Members of the Sejm, listened attentively to the information of the Prime Minister and the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration. Reflection at the beginning is as follows: I am curious what today's discussion would have been like if there had not been a state of emergency introduced on part of the territory of the Republic, if there had not been a temporary fence that had been made in recent months. I will remind you here, and it is worth recalling that some of you voted in such a way that either she was against it or she abstained. We might have briefings and running MPs, stories about Afghan chefs who want to prepare food for us, etc. On the other hand, I would like to ask two questions to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration: What is the current construction of a temporary fence at the border with Belarus? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is that firewall... Thank you very much, sir. Mr Szymański will be followed by Mr Szymański. ...is currently securing our border? And secondly, what is the initial timetable for the implementation of this target solution resulting from the adopted law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u134	I invite Mr Tomasz Szymański, the Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is nothing to justify today's absence, the absence of the Deputy Prime Minister for Security, Mr. Jarosław Kaczyński. Because since you have decided to convene an extraordinary meeting of the Sejm, today there is nothing more important for the safety of Poles and Poles. However, your attempt to justify, Prime Minister, the absence of Mr Kaczyński shows and points out the real circumstances of what this session of the Sejm is meant to serve today. Today, you needed to show the Prime Minister and the ministers who spoke to the nation in flames, especially to public television audiences, how well you protect the Polish borders. You have received all the tools we could give you: further attempts and further emergency states, cutting off public opinion, cutting off cooperation and non-cooperation with international institutions. But you are so weak in power that you will increase the threat by inspiring the fear of citizens to escape the real problems of Poles and Poles. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because real problems are, ladies and gentlemen... [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]] Thank you, sir. ...the galloping expensive, galloping energy prices. Thank you very much, sir. That's the problem... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u136	I invite Mrs Beata Maciejewska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u137	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister Kaminski said, standing today on the speaker: We have a concept, we know that we must act consistently. I would like to know exactly what this means, what concrete actions will be taken at a specific time. Today, despite the introduction of a state of emergency, despite the construction of the dam, its plan and its temporary fences, we have an increasingly difficult situation at the border. We can, of course, talk about how this is a situation, and we're pretty much in control, but we're not. I would also like to know, Prime Minister, what concrete steps you are going to take this month, next month, and in the field of the European Union, and in the field of our contacts on the security of Poland in general, and on contacts with other countries, e.g. flights to Poland from Turkey (the bell), migrants. What concrete actions will you take? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u138	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski, Coalition Poland. There's no envoy. So, Mr Paweł Lisiecki, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u139	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The difficult situation at the border requires the support of those who defend it: Border Guard, soldiers, Territorial Defence Forces. Unfortunately, however, many celebrities, journalists, Members of the total opposition, and even former generals and officers of the People's Army Polish is more concerned about migrants attacking and crossing the border than about Polish soldiers defending Polish houses, Polish women and Polish children. At the address of soldiers and border guards, invectives and accusations are thrown without cover. Murderers are famous celebrities. There are threats to border guards in tabloids and other such newspapers. The opposition Members unfortunately use their immunity to obstruct the Border Guard, and that is not what parliamentary (Dawn) or senator immunity is for. The effects of total opposition action will not hit the Law and Justice, the government. They will hit the security of Poland. Minister! What reactions and actions did the Ministry of Defence take after statements of slandering Polish soldiers defending our border and security of Poles? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u140	Thank you, sir. Mr Sławomir Neumann, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u141	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Defense of the border is an obvious duty and it is well handled by soldiers, border guards and police officers. The Polish government is not doing well because of these omissions It's been said many times here. You've gathered us here today on an important matter, and we haven't really heard anything we can't read in the papers. We don't really know anything new except what we can read on the Internet. And it's kind of like... One of your ministers made it clear: do not disturb, support. It's like from the frame of the film describing the Polish People's Republic, when one of the generals asked... [[All right.]] ...whether the martial law had to be, he replied that it had to be, since it was introduced. That's your answer. Today we say: we want Frontex at the border not to have $1,000 there. officers additionally, [[Applause]] But to have reliable information... [[But we're working together. There's cooperation.]] ...because you can't be trusted. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You can only believe in the Dwórczyk's e-mails. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u142	Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. I'm asking you to calm down. Let's hold on a little longer. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u143	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Prime Minister! Ministers! There are many positive words in this room today, among others. about cooperation over divisions. So I believe that from this point on, we can call on the President to convene a meeting of the National Security Council, without political divisions, involving all political groups. I hope that this appeal will also support Law and Justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u144	Thank you. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u145	Thank you, Marshal. Prime Minister! Here, you and your ministers have called on the opposition to cooperate like Lithuania. But, Prime Minister, we don't need to be appealed to. Do you remember a year ago, during the crisis after the presidential election in Belarus, you invited representatives of the opposition and everyone there... I also attended these meetings myself, very factual, working, very constructive. So it's not about appealing; it's about inviting, proposing a serious conversation. I am very pleased that your marshal has called this extraordinary meeting of the Sejm, but that is not enough. It is known that in the presence of cameras and journalists, we can not talk about everything. If only such an invitation, Prime Minister, is addressed to the opposition clubs, I can assure you that the answer will be positive, because we understand the seriousness of the situation, just as last year we understood the seriousness of the events in Belarus (the bell) after the presidential elections and the repressions that started there. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u146	Thank you, sir. Mr Tomasz Zieliński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u147	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The situation at the border is indeed very dynamic. There is an escalation of migrant activities. There was verbal aggression and then physical attacks on the Polish Border Guard and the army by means of stones or branches. You can't see there were women or children. At present there is a concentration of hundreds of immigrants at the border and group attempts to force it and there were also no women and children. We also observe the escalation of behaviour among the Belarusian services. We receive information about gunning against Polish officers and simulating shooting and other very dangerous provocations for our soldiers. I would therefore ask you to answer the question whether the Polish soldiers and the Border Guard are prepared for different scenarios for the development of the situation at the border. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u148	Thank you. Mr Czesław Mroczek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u149	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is clear that the Belarusian regime is creating a migration conflict which poses a threat to Poland and Europe. To counter this, we need concerted action in Poland with the support of our community, the European Union and our NATO allies. But in order for this to be a joint action in Poland, we need government information for parliament, for the public. Therefore, if you want to go out and act like this today You said, give Parliament information, let journalists work in the border area. If we want to resolve this crisis, it cannot be solved only at the border. It is necessary to ensure that the influx of refugees in Belarus is stopped. This requires support and action (the Bell) within the international community, the European Union, including the United States. If you want to do this, stop fighting the European Union. [[Nobody fights the Union.]] Thank you, sir. Stop putting our relationship in jeopardy... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...with the United States. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u150	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Karolina Pavlichak, Left. Ladies and gentlemen, please watch your time, because you're out of time, and you're out of time. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u151	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! By introducing a state of emergency, you have absolutely limited everyone's access to reliable and true information. Today, not only Poland - today the whole world is doomed to broadcast Belarusian and Russian regime media. We have journalists, war correspondents all over the world who report events from the centre of the war, and in a democratic country in the middle of Europe, journalists cannot be at the border. So how much longer are you going to limit the freedom of the media and thus weaken our democracy, and how much longer are we going to be doomed to broadcast propaganda media from Russia and Belarus? I'm asking for information. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u152	Thank you. Mr Ireneusz Raś, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u153	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! It is not easy to ask a question in the second 50s, but I would like to draw attention to what has already happened many times today from this speaker and in questions and in the debate. The country that you manage this crisis often speaks of the Belarusian side, or even further, the side still further east, using means of misinformation, manipulation. I ask why we do not also invite Arabic television from around the world, which could provide information where we want to reach the truth. Because we are right to say that the opponents are playing false, and we have arguments. Why don't you want to take advantage of it? It's harmful to me. That's the question I want to ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u154	Thank you very much. Mr Zdzisław Sipiera, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u155	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The question is concrete and one that concerns Polish soldiers who are currently serving during a state of emergency. There were doubts, there were various questions in this regard, but the question is this. Minister! That is above all a question for the Minister of National Defence. How are soldiers now being picked up in a state of emergency by locals, by those who live there, functioning? I would very much ask for that answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u156	Thank you. Ms Urszula Zielińska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u157	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The situation at the border is difficult, but border protection does not exclude humanitarian action. It's no reason to push the defenseless away, condemning them to death in the woods, filming a spiral of fear and narration of war. The situation at the border today is primarily a humanitarian tragedy. Here's what's needed to bring this tragedy to an end. First of all, humanitarian aid. The establishment of a corridor of assistance for victims of human trafficking in Aleksandra Lukashenka, those live shields you spoke of, is a particularly urgent action. Second, peace and security. Safe Poland is Poland in the Union and NATO, cooperating, uninsulated, undisturbed with its neighbours. Thirdly, transparency, openness to the media, even so that society can regain confidence in key state bodies. This is really important today. Everything else will be a political game at the expense of human life. Prime Minister! This crisis teaches us all. It's the only way we can solve it together. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u158	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Maciej Kopc from the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u159	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Despite the increase in the number of Border Guards and troops on the eastern border of Poland and the European Union, we know that it is to be overcome by foreigners, including underage children. We also know that foreign aid centres are overcrowded, and government policy still does not see the humanitarian dimension of this crisis. What further steps does the government intend to take to verify and protect these people? How many new centres of help for foreigners are going to run the Ministry of Internal Affairs? Please respond in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u160	Thank you. Mr Robert Gontarz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u161	Dear Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, High Izbo! Today is the day on which we should all speak with one voice, with the voice of national security. This is what happens in Lithuania, this is what happens in Latvia, but unfortunately, part of the opposition has been manipulated by Alexander Łukaszence and repeats this manipulated message, and sometimes it is actually fueled by information that has nothing to do with reality, trying to impose, for example, such a narrative that there are mainly small children and mothers on the border. Yesterday showed us clearly that it was completely different. A group of several thousand young men tried hard to reach the Polish border. Luckily, the Border Guard showed her what she could do. And for all this, for these actions of the Border Guard, the Polish Army and the Polish Police, they deserve great respect and thanks. But the question arises whether these actions, manipulated information, are not in the hands of Alexander Lukashenka. Isn't that an additional reason to try to destabilize the situation in Poland and turn this situation on at the border? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u162	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u163	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, On 1 December the state of emergency ends in parts of Podlaskie and Lublin voivodships. What restrictions do border residents have to prepare for after 1 December? Will they know what you're going to do in border areas? The state of emergency is ending, and unfortunately, the situation is getting worse. Prime Minister! You told me what you already did. But what's next? What are you going to do next? How are you going to solve this conflict? Why didn't you address international organizations, Frontex, NATO? After all, this is not only our border, but also the external border of the European Union. They're really just waiting for the signal. They're gonna want to help us. I hope that as soon as possible, Prime Minister, you will seek help from international institutions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u164	Thank you, sir. Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u165	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Young women, teenagers of both sexes, children - these are the most common victims of human trafficking, victims of violence, often sexual violence. How do you recognize them? Well, they usually don't have documents, it's hard to identify them. The kids are out of parents. And this is the message that comes from the regime's media, that they are teenagers with an undefined identity, that they are children borrowed, that they are not with their own parents. So, in fact, you should have a red light. What I'm saying, you should get all the alarm sirens. They could be victims of human trafficking. There are several international conventions, which Poland is a signatory, which say what and how to do. What did you do? Have you identified the victims of human trafficking? What have you done to prevent this? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u166	Thank you, Member. Mr Antoni Macierewicz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u167	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The aggression we are experiencing today did not begin in July, either in June or May 2021, when the Polish aircraft was hijacked. It started with a crime in 2010. It was the scariest hit in Poland resulting from the awareness that Poland is the country which is the only country able to block Russian imperialism. And that is why, when Law and Justice took power, they started actions aimed at increasing the strength and military security of Poland. That's why we started increasing the army. That's why we set up the Territorial Defense Army. That's why we started moving troops east. And that is why we led to the stationing of U.S. and NATO troops in Poland. Today we must strengthen our inner strength. Hence, the unity of the nation is essential, hence the development of civil protection, the one that creates the structure of the whole society, gives it strength and gives it the education of national defence. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u168	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u169	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I have a question on behalf of the people of Lublin, on behalf of the whole region: What help do you have for them? You changed their lives overnight. From day to day, you've reduced their operation. You've isolated them from the rest of the country overnight. They want to know what's next. What kind of help do you have for them? What's your plan? What happens when the emergency is over? When will they start functioning normally? When will they return to business without restrictions? When will they stop being afraid? The responsibility for all or lack of decisions so far lies with the government - a government which today, in the face of a threat to the security of citizens, should cooperate with the European Union, with NATO, with opposition, because that is what citizens expect of us. Collaborate. Speaking of this cooperation, I would like to quote you, ladies and gentlemen: Put the word (the bell) into practice, and do not be merely hearers deceiving yourselves - St. Jacob. Take him to heart. [[Applause]] [[Bożen Boris-Raccoona: But you talked.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u170	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Marek Rutka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u171	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! For hundreds, probably thousands, border guards, soldiers and police officers who have been sent to the border, this is the first mission so difficult in every respect. This mission is not only difficult due to weather conditions, frosts and the coming winter, but also difficult in a purely human, emotional and psychological dimension. Desperate refugees pushed by the Belarusian regime to the Polish border can be capable of many reactions, including those hostile. I would like to get an answer on how to implement directly there, on the spot, psychological support for border guards and police officers and soldiers of the Polish Army. Such support is necessary and they call for such support. I spent the last 2 days in Hajnówka and Michałów, on the border of a state of emergency zone, and I know best what the real atmosphere is there. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u172	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Krajewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u173	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I'll start with the most important thing. Today the entire High Chamber should speak with one voice and thank the defenders of our borders, Polish borders, officers and officers of Border Guard and Police and Polish Army soldiers, including the servants and the very important forces of Territorial Defence. Let us also remember to thank Polish Special Forces officers. They, too, deserve great thanks. Let us also remember that the objective of the Lukashenka regime is political destabilization of Poland, the Baltic countries and the European Union as a whole. It is very important to impose sanctions on the Lukashenka regime as soon as possible. Prime Minister, I have to ask you: is there any chance that effective and severe sanctions from the European Union (The Bell) will be quickly introduced against the Lukashenka regime and air carriers involved in this illegal transfer of migrants to Poland and the European Union? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u174	Thank you, sir. Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u175	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The state of emergency prevents medical and humanitarian organisations from operating in this area, but they are conducted in the area where they can work. Therefore, I would very much like to thank the Border Group, the doctors at the border, the Polish Red Cross and all those inhabitants of Podlasie and Lublin region who are helping refugees. The state of emergency made it more difficult and prevented independent media from accessing it. You have said, Prime Minister, that we must fight disinformation, but we do not have any objective and independent relations about what is happening in the area of the state of emergency. There are not only Polish journalists in the border strip. There are also no BBC, Euronews or CNN journalists. The images we receive are images from the regime, controlled by the Kremlin and Lukashenka media. It is also part of their actions against Poland. So when are you gonna let the reporters into that area? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[What kind of nonsense are you talking about? God. Start thinking, woman.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u176	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Wozniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u177	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The migration crisis on the Polish eastern border may seem like a primitive retaliation of the Belarusian satrapa in the Polish country, in the countries of the European Union, but it seems to me that the problem is much broader. We must remember that today Belarus and Russia form the ZBIR - a union state, a Confederate state. It seeks a federation, which is really to absorb Belarus by Russia and to create three Russian Governors in the western confluences of the Russian empire. I would like to point out that today, not only the Belarusian KGB is operating on the Polish border, but also the Russian FSB, Specnaz is involved, and the Russian armed forces, the mechanized regiments are located directly on the border between Belarus and Ukraine. Thank you, sir. The problem is far more extensive. Thank you, sir. It just seems to us that this is a problem at the border, with refugees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u178	Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I call for us to stick to time, really. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u179	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At the Polish-Belarusian border we have a crisis, also humanitarian. We don't know his future. As a European country in accordance with Polish and international law, we are obliged to provide assistance to foreigners residing in our country, also in terms of saving health and life. Question to the government: How does the government support - financially, organizationally, HR - medical care? Foreigners crossing the border are not insured. Will hospitals receive a 100% return on patients' diagnosis, treatment and hospitalization? Will the bills issued today by the State Border Guard be verified, will they not be understated? Because existing contracts concern only the qualifications of patients (the bell), whether they can be settled or not. Thank you, sir. Mr Zbigniew Babalski, Law and Justice. Is the POZ reinforced? Is the aid being reinforced... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u180	Thank you very much, sir. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u181	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On the eve of our national holiday, in the face of what is happening on the border with Belarus, but also in the face of this constant instruction and punishment of Poland and Polish citizens, it may be necessary to ask ourselves in whose interest it is. It seems to me that this is a good and appropriate time to recall the words of the great Pole spoken more than 100 years ago, and how timely it can be today: a nation that does not respect and value its past is not worthy of respect for the present or the right to the future. Who said that? More than 100 years ago, Marshal Piłsudski said it. It would be worthwhile for us, especially those who forget our history and past, to remember that. The measure of sovereignty is the ability (the bell) to defend our borders... Mr... ...the ability to defend the citizens. From this point on, I thank all the uniforms for their attitude. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u182	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u183	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The situation at the border is not known to us from now on, and we have talked about it repeatedly in the Sejm. We have also said many times that a safe border is one where people do not die on one side and on the other. That is why I wanted to ask: What exactly is the work of various services, especially medical and rescue workers, to support and help people so that they do not die at the border after their illegal passage? For a few weeks now, various NGOs, which have been in an emergency zone, have been alerting that refugees are being passed on after all, but a large part of them are pushed out, and then they die in terrible and tragic conditions. I would like to get a specific answer and I would also ask that it be in writing: What is the support of people who, when crossing an illegal border, may be at risk (the bell) of death? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u184	Thank you. Mr Mariusz Trepka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u185	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Do you know what border service looks like? Because I don't think most people in this room know. I want to say that I know because I served on the Polish border for nine months. That is why today we owe great thanks to soldiers, Border Guards, Police, all who guard the Polish border, but also the European Union. And I have a roll call. Speech is silver, silence is gold. [[Applause]] Sometimes it's worth keeping quiet, not saying stupid things. [[Applause]] [[Bożen Boris-Raccoon: Bravo!]] [[This conclusion is worth gold.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u186	Thank you, sir. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left. Mr President, I'm sorry, I thought you ended up with this appeal. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u187	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Is the government going to ask the European Union for assistance, which is not about raising more funds, but based on knowledge and experience, and start working closely with the European Border and Coast Guard Agency, the European Asylum Support Office or the Europol Police Agency, which is ready to help with the registration of migrants, the processing of asylum applications and the fight against human smuggling? Will the government, in support of those who are and will potentially be in international protection and are in a difficult situation, as today at the border, take action to ensure their safety? At this point, I would like to thank the doctors at the border and the Border Group (the bell), because the safe border is this... Thank you very much, Member. ...where no one dies. [[Applause]] [[Bożen Boris-Raccoon: And silence is gold.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u188	Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u189	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, Please do not listen to the infantile suggestions of the opposition to address the European Union. In the European Union, in Brussels, Vladimir Putin has many friends. Germany and Austria are particularly interested in meeting Putin's objective. Putin's goal is, firstly, to abolish the sanctions imposed today on Belarus and, secondly, what Sergei Lavrov said today, to finance Belarus through e.g. money coming from the European Union. This cannot be allowed, which is why I am pleased that you are demanding new sanctions. This is the purpose of Polish politics. But Putin's more important goal is to make him so-called. Peacemaker. Putin just wants what the Platform wants. He wants to talk to the European Union so that the Union can unlock Nord Stream 2 and the second step of Vladimir Putin will be another hit in Ukraine just in winter. Ladies and gentlemen, Poland must conduct a sovereign policy, but let us have absolutely no illusions. Vladimir Putin in the European Union has friends in Brussels. Sanctions are the basic thing. It is worth asking the United States to impose new sanctions, because this is also the NATO border. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u190	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Gdula, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u191	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! It is important that today we properly call what is happening at the border. In fact, we all say it's a destabilizing action on the part of Lukashenka. It's obvious. We're not talking enough about the fact that migrants and refugees at the border are his victims. That's definitely not enough. We're talking about the fact that there's Russia behind Lukashenka. It's likely. But we don't say one thing that's extremely important. This crisis would not have been if it had not been for Turkey's help. This is actually a situation where Turkey and Lukaszenka are implementing destabilising actions on the Polish border. I'd like to ask the Foreign Minister for action to stop flights from Turkey. Unfortunately, they happen every day. Question: Shouldn't we apply to the European Union for a ban on flights of Turkish Airlines that actually deliver (the bell) people to Belarus. Question: "Will we keep the contract for buying drones with Turkey?" [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u192	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mieczysław Baszko, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u193	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank the Border Guard, the Polish Army, the Territorial Defence Forces, the Police and thank you to the Prime Minister, the Ministers, the Ministry of National Defence, the Ministry of Home Affairs for the decisive decision to act on the Polish-Belarusian border. I'd like to say that at first it was a playground, jokes were made, and you have to take every situation seriously. Ladies and gentlemen, so that it is not so that migrants are being pushed out from behind with bayonets to go to Poland. How will the Polish Army behave? So it wouldn't be like in Grodno on 20 September 1939 when the Soviets took Tadeusz Jasiński on a tank (The Bell) as a shield and walked. Thank you very much, sir. But then there was this. He's also a very big hero. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u194	Thank you. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u195	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The safe and tight border between Poland and Belarus is the task of all the services of our country. Solidarity with officials and soldiers of the Polish state and their families is our responsibility beyond political divisions. The Border Guard, the police, the military every day serve in very difficult conditions, under great stress, having as opponents members of the Lukashenka regime and desperate immigrants. So I ask the ministers of Kaminski and Błaszczak: Do our officers and their families have permanent and professional psychological and medical care at the station? Has the state of emergency been used by territorial troops and other services to talk to the local community about the behaviour of the civilian population during the crisis or the crossing of the human border (the bell) in green uniforms? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u196	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Kalet, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u197	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The worst thing that can be imagined, and what has unfortunately become, is that some of our nation's representatives insulted the defenders of our homeland. If today we want to take seriously what the opposition has said, then there should be one message from this place: Quite a fool. Enough of the kind of proceedings that took place at the border. Enough running around with the banana bags. Quite shameful, vile Internet entries that offended our borderers. [[Voice from the room: Get off the platform.]] But also, ladies and gentlemen, politics is made up of gestures. Today we have had the opportunity to stand and applaud many times, thanking our bordermen. Why didn't the Left get up? You couldn't afford that gesture? You couldn't do that to show Polish soldiers: yes, we're with you? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You've run out of it. And today, ladies and gentlemen, if I hear from one of the Members of the Platform that you have to listen to former officers, who should we listen to? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you, sir. Those two generals? Disgraceful, ladies and gentlemen! [[Applause]] [[Post-communists.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u198	Mr Paweł Krutul, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u199	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! I can't see. High Izbo! As a Member from Podlasie, I would like to appeal to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. I appeal to you, Prime Minister, to ensure the care of a child psychologist in all schools and kindergartens in a state of emergency in the Podlaskie Voivodeship. Yesterday, border residents - with whom I spoke yesterday and today - when they saw thousands of people approaching on television and the Internet, began to panic to pick up children from kindergartens and schools. That's why I'm asking you to take care of the youngest Podlasian psychologist. After all, such care are taken by uniforms stationed at the border - and well. Please include my request on behalf of my parents in Podlasie. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u200	Thank you. Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, we have nine more questions. There's no envoy. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u201	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! The absent ministers representing the President! Several thousand Polish Army soldiers, Border Guard and Police officers and WOT soldiers participate in the hybrid war, which will probably last many days and even weeks. It's a dangerous action, but it also triggers stress situations. In this connection, I have three questions: Are the servants provided with adequate living conditions, rest conditions, and warm meals during the ministry? Do they live in buildings or under tents? Has medical care and psychological support been provided to soldiers and officers? Will they also receive psychological support within the two to three years after the end of service in the crisis zone? Question three: Has psychological support also been provided to families of soldiers and officers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u202	Thank you. Mr Wiesław Boj, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u203	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In today's statements, Prime Minister and Ministers have determined strongly, they have shown us that we will manage ourselves. But I wanted to point out that the world has changed a lot over the last decades, and today conflicts are much more complex than they used to be. Therefore, the current situation at the Polish-Belarusian border and the emerging media reports about migrants crossing the Polish-Ukrainian border - and here I will jump south - ask the following question, Prime Minister: Is the government considering international cooperation in order to resolve the current and potential crisis on this section of the border? Is the Polish government prepared for a potential increased humanitarian crisis? And do the Polish authorities remain in contact with the Ukrainian authorities in the event of an increased flow of migrants across the Polish-Ukrainian border? Why am I talking about this? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you, sir. Well, we've been informed recently that... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Thank you, sir. Mrs Anita Sowińska, Left. ...150 people crossed the line...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u204	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u205	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I was near the border last week. Within two days I met nine migrants: women, men and children. I'm in contact with another seven people who are members of their family. These are women and little children. On the basis of the witness reports I spoke with, I estimate that for at least 2 weeks the Polish border has crossed several hundred people every day. So I estimate that a few to a dozen thousand people entered Poland. As your marshal said that we came here for reliable information, I would like to ask how many people are currently in Border Guard and refugee camps. How many people have made it to the west of Europe? How many pushbacks were there? How many of these cases were the pushbacks again? And how many deaths are there? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u206	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Rozenek, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u207	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to start by thanking you, sincerely thanking officers and soldiers who are doing their duties at the border fairly and legally. But I would also like to give you information from these soldiers, officers, firefighters, who are also at the border. They don't know who's in charge, Minister, because we're dealing with a situation where we have at least three servants from two resorts. We don't know who's leading them. Who's in charge of this operation, Minister? I'm asking that question. That question seems simple. I would like someone in this Chamber to tell us who is the commander, who is responsible for the operation so serious and so vital to the security of the citizens of the Republic of Poland. Who's in charge? By name, by name, by rank. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u208	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Shejna, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u209	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm so glad to see you, Minister. That's a good sign. Minister, I'd like you to take really strong control over your colleagues who want to send our journalists to the Belarusian side. It's not a good idea, Minister, you know that. Every time the left was patriotic, she was determined... [[When it was necessary.]] [[Voices from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Yes, when it was necessary for Poland, ladies and gentlemen, and it was not necessary for your parties. The Left gave the Constitution, the European Union. The left hand will help you today... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Bożen Boris-Raccoon: And martial law.]] Ladies and gentlemen, just hold on a little longer, okay? Scream, yell, yell, yell, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I know. It'll make you feel better. [[You're supposed to be wearing eagles.]] The left hand will help you today, we only have one request. The Prime Minister today said that Lukashenka (The Bell) today with her cobs... Thank you very much, sir. But my speech was interrupted. Mr President, you have not asked a question. Thank you very much. When the Prime Minister said that with the cobs... [[Voice from the room: Don't be a jerk.]] [[Time!]] Question, sir. Your marshal, I've been interrupted. Mr President, I am in charge of the deliberations. Are you asking a question? I'd like to ask you a question. You've had an introduction. You've been through a lot of time. But can I ask you a question now? Please. Thank you. I have not only a question for you, but a request. Since...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u210	Thank you, sir. Mrs Joanna Senyshin, Left. Mr President, please step out of the podium. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[Andrzej, it didn't work out, it happens sometimes.]] [[That didn't work out for you.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be serious. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u211	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! We have heard unwarranted, obscene self-enchantment of ministers. What amazes you? There has been a humanitarian crisis on the border with Belarus for months, which the government has not been able to do, and maybe it does not want to do, because nothing consolidates citizens around power as much as the danger. If it weren't for this conflict, your ratings would be on their heads, on their necks. The government does not want to benefit from Frontex's many years of experience, although there are experts there. [[On what? What are these specialists for?]] What are the real causes of your fear of internationalising the conflict at the Polish-Belarusian border? Translation that Frontex has few officers, and Poland has many soldiers, are just funny. [[It would be funny what you say if it wasn't scary.]] What specific scenarios and how many concrete scenarios has the government prepared in the event of several thousand people crossing the Polish border illegally? I hope this never happens. Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u212	Thank you very much, Member. Catherine Ueberhan, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u213	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! The integrity of our eastern border, the border that is also the external border of the European Union, is a priority for us. And that's what we all agree on here today. However, this does not change the fact that applications for international protection already submitted should be dealt with as soon as possible. And I don't know with what result, whether positive or negative. Prime Minister! What action is the government planning to take to improve and accelerate the procedure for applying for international protection? Currently, it is five applications per day. Let us remember, the longer the asylum procedure takes, the longer the migration crisis continues at our border. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u214	Thank you, Member. Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u215	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! As a member of the Parliamentary Committee on National Defence and as a member of the Parliamentary Committee on Special Services, I very much wanted to thank our Polish Army soldiers for their service, Border Guard officers, police officers, soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army and special services for how you defend our country, you guard the border. Thank you so much for your hard work. I wanted to ask the ministers and the Prime Minister about the sanctions of the European Union that should be imposed against the Lukashenka regime, but actually against Vladimir Putin's regime in Russia. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u216	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. Please take the floor of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u217	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you very much for all these questions. I'm going to try to answer most of them, and I'm going to collect some of them into the common denominator because they've been repeating themselves. I will start with the main speeches that were presented by individual clubs. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Semoniak for, in total, in line with our assessment of what is happening at the border, that this is a very aggressive attitude of the Lukashenka regime, that we are similarly assessing the causes or the causes, the genesis, that we differ in the need for implemented solutions - the state of emergency and the dam. Here indeed, if there is such a difference between us, if I understand correctly, it is worth discussing it, because what we would look like today, if not for these two solutions. Today, High Izbo, if I have read correctly, a state of emergency has been introduced in Lithuania, with 122 votes in favour and one against. So a very high level of solidarity has been shown there, unfortunately it has been slightly different with us. So we believe that these two elements are absolutely necessary for the effective fight against this migration storm provoked by Lukashenka. Mr Semoniak then also spoke about the European Union and these voices followed. Of course, not only do we receive the words of support from the European Union, but also the words of readiness for assistance that we will test if it continues, because why not use financial support. Although, if it's not on the other side of the will, we'll be on our own and there won't be any problems here either. But, of course, first of all, we suggest support for our neighbours and friends in Lithuania, because they have a land border not 180 km, only 650 km with a cover, and here support, they certainly need help. You also asked the president if we wanted to tighten the sanctions. Absolutely. You asked about the airline, and that question went through a dozen times. Everyone in this regard, I say, yes. Minister Rau, who is already here with us, and Minister Kaminski is talking to his counterparts in the European Union precisely to carry out a decisive action in connection with the airlines that are used, so to speak, for the purposes of the transfer of persons from the Middle East countries. I talked to President von der Leyen about this yesterday. With Charles Michel - I answer the question immediately - there will be such a meeting tomorrow. That was the question. Is there, at the end, Mr Kosiniak, a willingness for the worst? Thank you very much for such a rhetorical question, because it was during my speech that I also pointed out that these risks are still very unrecognizable. And I'm glad that, I understand, there's a reflection here somewhere in the air, because we don't know what's even worse. And let's prepare together for what might even be the worst, so let's strengthen our defence. Mr Czarzasty spoke about the fact that there is an operation of Lukashenka aimed at us very specifically. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, However, you also mentioned that every migrant, if I quote the President correctly, should get help. And it's also a voice that has been repeated several times in a little bit of different scenes. That's a nice comparison you used to use, it's a difference between the East and the West. That's it. That's it. That's it. We continue our efforts and creativity to provide this humanitarian aid. Our convoys reflect from the border like from a rubber wall, but we will think even more creatively, but without compromising the territorial integrity of Belarus. But yes, we will. [[Applause]] You continued to talk about a method to pack migrants into airplanes and send them back to countries. Yes, we are also considering it, and we are discussing it with the European Union. This voice also sounded in a few other speeches. I want to say to everyone that yes, and the people in the centers... Here at the end there were voices especially from the Left, as far as these centres are concerned, I will move on to that in a moment. I'm just gonna say that there are 1,800 people in these centers right now. About 300 of them decided to return to their countries of origin. And we give these people a plane, a ticket, a good trip, also within the meaning of financial support. We want to do this to everyone: both those who are in our centres and those who might penetrate Poland. Because, of course, we prevented these trials from happening, okay? 31 grand, but some trials are successful. So, yes, that's how we're gonna do it. [[Applause]] Will we use the structures of the European Union, you asked Mr Czarzasty. And I'm gonna go back to that for the next few questions. And do we have an Eastern policy towards Belarus and Russia? We want to live in friendship, peace and economic cooperation as much as possible, and not only with these countries - but it takes two to dance. We look forward to a real peaceful approach on the part of these two neighbours, we are very open to cooperation with Russia and Belarus, but, as we know, there is no such will on the other side so far. Mr Kosiniak-Kamish then spoke about solidarity between political forces. Mr President, thank you for this tweet from yesterday, also for this expressed solidarity. These are very important words for us. The President also referred to the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, I am in contact with many prime ministers every day. It is not that they, the European Union, the European Commission, or the European Council, flood us with proposals for support. So far, it's just like in the report from the besieged city of Herbert: they'll send flour sacks of encouragement, fat and good advice. They're helping us with a good word for now. I will try to get President von der Leyen and President Charles Michel to make this assistance as concrete as possible, financially, to build a barrier, etc. We will not despise this help, of course not. But we're not gonna get blackmailed if there's conditions or something. Of course, we continue our efforts to strengthen security at the eastern border. [[Applause]] President Kosiniak-Kamish asked about the OSCE forum. I answer: yes, there was such information in October about the situation at the eastern border. We are also talking with the OSCE partners in the context of taking over the Presidency, the Presidency. Also, if I remember correctly, this information will be presented again in the OSCE next Thursday. Mr. Kulesza and President Bosak of the Confederation. Mr. Kulesza was very critical of the bats and the net on the brush sticks. Well, sir, this is a good security at this point, and it is perfectly rebuilt in one night. Today, these holes that you saw, the rifts made during this attack were repaired at night in the vast majority by soldiers, by the Polish army, and this is an effective dam. [[Applause]] This is an effective firewall right now. We're building even more effective, but let me just remind you that four or three months ago, there wasn't one. Then there was the concert, then the barbed wire, now the fence and the barbed wire. We're building better and better security. President Bosak complimented us much more, so I'm just gonna thank you for those words. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday asked for international cooperation and then these questions were asked very many times. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no day for me, like today, not to speak to a few prime ministers. The President is talking to the presidents of other countries. We're in constant contact. One of the last questions on the left concerned cooperation in border guards, including coastal ones. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this guard has nothing to boast about and is very criticised in the European Union in Brussels. Her officers allow dramatic situations, much more dramatic than ours, because we save every life, we never leave the man found in the middle of the forest. If he needs medical attention, he's being transferred to a hospital. Contrary to various conversations, no children were left alone. [[Applause]] Kids find their parents. The Member said that the road to ending the conflict only leads through Brussels. Madam President, I do not agree with such an approach that this is only possible through Brussels. Brussels has so far not done much about this, except that it has really changed its mind dramatically, in a way that is positive for us. Because five, six years ago she was in favour of accepting tens, several hundred thousand, millions of migrants, which happened and what had consequences. And today the attitude of Brussels is changed by 180 degrees. Exactly what the law and justice government were talking about. [[Applause]] The voice of the Member, like many other votes, also concerned airlines. Well, that's a very good voice. I will say that yesterday, at the meeting with the President, the President also proposed that the possibility of flights flying over the European sky of those airlines which operate this transport operation should be stopped immediately. And we're gonna try very hard to do that. Yesterday I told President von der Leyen about this. Tomorrow I will tell President Michel. I had previously put this issue in the European Council, but earlier, the European Council was not very keen to raise this issue. Only when they saw videos on the screens of their phones with speakers of migrants from Arab countries who are marching on the European Union - because that's the way it has to be said - did they react differently, so far with words of encouragement, and perhaps the words of support will follow. President Gowin said that this is a very real threat. I completely agree with the view that the President presented here that there is a risk that this will be an excuse for the Russian troops to move along the Russian border. These are the risks of the future, these additional risks. And not only do I agree with this, but unfortunately I also believe - what we fear and what we often analyse in the Committee on Security - that the Russians will be more and more present in Belarus. This is Putin's game, getting stronger and stronger with Putin Lukashenka. Mr President was also talking about tightening the sanctions. Yes, as much as we will ask for stricter sanctions at the next European Council, but I have also proposed, and tomorrow I will repeat this to President Michel, that we do not wait for December, but if we cannot meet physically in advance, we do so in the form of a video conference. That's where I'm gonna pick up that point. The point is to strengthen these sanctions. I answer a lot of you because this point on sanctions came here. We will offer something that, unfortunately, will also hurt Polish entrepreneurs trading with Belarus. Reinforcement of such sanctions as we have today, which is to increase the number of people who do not have the right to enter the European Union, let us agree, this is not some terrible sanction for the Lukashenka regime, unfortunately, so we will also propose further economic sanctions - as President Gowin has proposed here. Mr Sachajko spoke about the article. 5th Polish Constitution. He was the only one who mentioned it. Thank you for that, sir. This should indeed be mentioned in our speeches. Art. 5 Polish Constitution speaks about the inviolability of Polish borders, Polish territory. It's a very important article. We're working on it at all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Mr Szramka spoke about the fact that we have a substantive, good discussion here today. Thank you. I would like to see this discussion as often as possible. Mr Sosnierz spoke about what was missing here. What are the offensive actions against Belarus? Perhaps the Member meant, for example, sanctions. Yeah, here it is. As far as further economic blockades, transport blockades are concerned, we are ready - and let the Lukashenka regime (the bell) also hear it - for escalation of this type. We are holding back further economic sanctions and we will implement them, if not at Union level, on our fairly long border with Belarus. We're ready for this. [[Applause]] Mr Mejza spoke about the need for unity. This unity was demonstrated in Lithuania when voting on the implementation of emergency solutions. I would like her to go further, also in the Polish Parliament. [[Applause]] Mr Sienkiewicz spoke about the living conditions of soldiers and criticized them quite severely. Mr Błaszczak, just with Minister Błaszczak We were there today. Sure thing, living in a tent or a container isn't the same as living in an apartment. We are well aware of this, but the amount of warm meals, the whole sanitary conditions, as much as it could be created in the field conditions... Minister Błaszczak is working on constantly improving them, improving them. Today he showed me a place where there would be 600 soldiers or 600 containers... Anyway, there's gonna be a huge container town, a whole facility, so you can live there better. We are preparing ourselves for long months, long quarters, or maybe long years of fighting this provocation of Lukashenka. So that's a deep lie - what you suggested. Mr Koperski of the Left asked why we do not involve Frontex. This voice has appeared several times. Ladies and gentlemen, the head of Frontex has been here and has highly commended our actions. I don't want to say too much about the word, but really our capabilities, the capabilities of our services are not about a row of grander, but about two or three rows of grander. Frontex does not help much with the big crisis on the southern border. Frontex is rather an agency for the exchange of best practices, of course some suggestions, etc. It's like we have 20,000. soldiers or FRONTEX officers in exile and they'd say, "Listen, there'll be armed officers on this border, we'd really consider it." But that's not the situation at all. This service is slim, it's small. [[The voice from the room: But it has procedures.]] [[Applause]] Mr Paszyk asked about readmission. Yes, sir, we are considering it. This is a new concept, from the last few days, analyzed in the security committee, analyzed by us. These people are indeed caught in a difficult situation, because sometimes the Belarusian services do not allow them to withdraw. If they want to return to their country, we are considering transporting them to the Polish airport only for readmission. However, it is not so simple at the moment, because the countries of origin - and most of the migrants from Iraq in Poland - often do not want to take them back, although it is actually not in accordance with international law, because the citizen of a given country should have the right to return to that country. We're working on it. You're a very active foreign minister here. Despite his illness, he was very, very active here. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applause]] So, readmissions - as a matter of fact, yes. Mr Braun asked about the border with Ukraine. Yes, sir, we are aware of this risk. Of course, if this border is very tight, the movement can go through Ukraine. We're doing the right thing to strengthen this limit over the entire length. Mrs Michalek, and many others, thanked the uniformed services. I'm just joining this. I'm not gonna say it again because I've written down these thanks in a lot of places. First of all, Members of the Law and Justice, Mr Tułaev, many others, thanked our officers, the Polish Army beautifully. Once again, maybe by acclamation, let's thank them all. Thank you. [[Long-term applause]] Your Marshal Kidawa-Błońska asked about actions to allow the media to enter the border. This voice often appeared on the part of the Left and Members of the Civic Coalition. Ladies and gentlemen... Minister, can you get those two cards that you and your colleagues printed for me? Let me show you two interpretations, why we have some doubts about the media. [[Minister Błaszczak printed this?]] In the case of a state of emergency and in Lithuania, and in other countries there are limitations. It's not like there's a special situation here. Look at this. Here probably some Belarusian officer injects a boy - drama - some kind of tear gas or something, to probably show the media how he is injured. [[Voice from the hall: This is a fag.]] [[Voice from the hall: It's not a fag.]] And then, like, here I'm showing a fake reality. This is reality, this is propaganda. He is then shown as the victim of an attack by the Polish police, which defends itself against migrants with tear gas. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, tear gas is a good means to resist this assault. Let me just remind you that so highly praised by you our partners from the West: Germany, Dutch, French are 15 times more brutal in much more peaceful situations. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: What do you say?]] Look at the twigs, the dead people in France during the demonstration of yellow vests, how many people died there. Only, of course, there is different treatment, as the ECHR says, Eastern Europe and Western Europe. We don't agree, but unfortunately, that's the situation. So as for the media... There's one of the MPs here, maybe I won't show it. But there are examples of pure propaganda, falsifying reality. Of course, we don't want that, and we're defending ourselves against it. We remember, I don't know, maybe a drastic comparison, among others. That's why the Americans lost the war in Vietnam. We all know that from history. Mrs Nowicka, Madam President Nowicka. How can we reach the people of the Middle East? It was a very important question. Here, Minister Rau, Minister Błaszczak, Minister Kaminski's activity is enormous. We're trying to get through different videos, promoting movies. I also spoke with President von der Leyen and at the European Council I raised direct diplomatic action to the capitals of the Middle East to the level of a certain threat that if they turn a blind eye to such a procedure, we would make it difficult for them to cooperate with the European Union. But we need to convince our partners from the European Union, and we are. It is not simple, but this is an important direction, what Madam President asked to reach out to the people of the Middle East so that they would not fall for this propaganda of Lukashenka and Putin. Mrs Pasławska asked about the convening of the summit. That's what I've been talking about. Do we need support, external assistance? Madam President, we will be financially successful, but if we are ready to support us with hundreds of millions of zlotys or euros, we will, of course, accept this assistance as much as possible. [[Applause]] Why not? Mr Winnicki criticised us for our inability to put up a barrier. Ladies and gentlemen, in June, we identified the problem in front of everyone else. In July we started to build the first dam, in September - the second one, and today you are criticizing us that there is no third one, the last one, to which we have convinced the Sejm not so long ago, and this is against the will of the Civic Coalition, unfortunately. We convinced the Sejm... [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] Relax, we voted out. [[Applause]] ...we've convinced ourselves of the need to build this dam. Give us some time, a few months. Minister Kaminski oversees this process. There's work to be done in a couple of weeks. These are complex engineering and construction works, but in the spring or summer of next year this dam will stand. Mr Maksimowicz asked how discouraged we were. I've already answered that question. Mrs Sroka too... Are we planning more Polish Army? Yes, Minister Błaszczak actually constantly increases our presence every week according to needs. A month and a half ago, there were 6,000. Soldiers, today is 13,000, Minister. So that here, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister is showing great efficiency, efficiency and flexibility. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applause]] Minister Zieliński thanked local government units and residents of the border area. I thanked you in the speech, too, but thank you for reminding me, Minister. By all means, we'll remember, remember them. As a new point, the Minister proposed, suggesting the issue we will consider, namely the inclusion of voluntary firefighters in a wider range, forestry and hunters. We'll think about it. I do not say yes or no today, but we will think about it, because it is also an important organisational resource. Mr Kierwiński and Mr Trela also asked how we are internationalising and how we are fighting smugglers. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we've already caught 370 smugglers. This is the efficiency of our third, fourth line of defense. These are the officers of Minister Kaminski. We caught 370 smugglers. They're gonna be charged with prosecutorial charges, and I'm sure most of them already have. This is the most disgraceful part of Lukashenka's entire operation. Probably many of them are on the Belarusian side, and those who appear on the Polish side will catch and we will try to bring about a proper punishment for such a crime, we have to say it. Ms Urszula Nowogórska asked if we were using Frontex. I already told you that. She also asked about taking care of the officers. Well, yes, we are planning this care too. Those officers who need psychological attention can come in now. We have secure psychological care. However, I must say today, Minister, the Minister is more often at the border than I am, that these people are fantastic. They're really ready for a much bigger risk. I'm sure they'll be up to their task, and they'll be fine, our soldiers, our officers. [[Applause]] Mr Korwin-Mikke said that Belarus is increasingly in Russia's hands and as if it were addressing us. I agree with the thesis, I disagree with the cause, because we're doing everything we can to prevent it. Unfortunately, actions e.g. our German partners led to the fact that, with the cooperation of many EPP parties, the European People's Party, unfortunately Nord Stream 2 was created and this proved to be an important issue to strengthen Putin's efforts. But we will do everything we can to fight this possibility of gas blackmail further. Mr Tomasz Zimoch asked about cooperation with the opposition for the future. Yeah, we'll do our best. Mr Protasiewicz also referred to this, recalling our previous meetings. As a matter of fact, we will try to continue our cooperation in this area. Mr Schetyna asked about the activity of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I have already mentioned a few actions in my speech. The Minister has just returned from his parole, so unless he gets here himself to answer, please accept my explanation. There really are a lot of calls made by him directly on the international forum. Mr Robert Obaz asked how much strength we were planning there in the end. We have no target number, sir, because there will be as much strength as necessary. As much strength as it takes. [[Applause]] Mr Tuduj and Mr Urbaniak, the Confederation, asked whether we would strengthen the additional sanctions. Absolutely. I mentioned it. I don't want this speech to be longer because it's already a little long, but I'm trying to answer your questions as much as possible. On the other hand, we are ready to escalate sanctions, we ourselves and, above all, urge our partners from the European Union to do so together. Mr Szczepański asked if we were discussing new centres in the new migration waves. No, sir, we are trying to prevent new migratory waves. We want this number to be 1.8,000. I think it's melting. She may be up to 2, 2,5, but we've prevented 31 grand. attempts to enter the territory of Poland [[Applause]] And with the improved quality of the dam, it will be easier for us to protect our borders. You also asked if it's true that we want to bring martial law to the border. No, we don't want martial law on the border. Mr Beida said that there are several thousand today, several dozen tomorrow. Mr President, excellent words, yes, today there are several thousand at the border, there may be several dozens tomorrow. Therefore, sanctions on airlines, sanctions on these countries, solidarity towards Belarus, sanctions on Belarus and strong resistance to these actions of Lukashenka is the only prescription for what is happening. The rest of the questions have been repeated, so I won't talk about them. Energy prices - Mr Szymański. That's right, this is Putin and Nord Stream 2 bowing, unfortunately. Mrs Maciejewska - an increasingly difficult situation at the border and flights. Mr Protasiewicz - I said. Mr Truskolaski - Frontex, I said. Mr Gawkowski - so that people on the border do not die. Mr President, as soon as we are able to save some man, some human existence, we do so. [[Applause]] We have saved several hundred lives because every stray citizen in the Middle East goes either to a hospital or to a refugee centre, and if he wishes to return to his country of origin, he goes back through Belarus or directly. That's how it's done. So we save, and we don't make people die. Please accept this truth. Mr Gdula spoke about Turkey. Yes, sir, we are aware of that. That's a good voice. A month ago, two months ago, it seemed that Turkey wanted to work closely with us. I'm going to say this out loud here because I think they're going to hear it, too, that we're seeing these actions of a full synchronization of Turkish activities with the actions of Belarus and Russia. It bothers us, we don't like it. Our help in putting out fires, our help in promoting the Turkish tourism industry unfortunately turned out to be a one-sided favour. We do not like it and we mark it against our Turkish friends, unfortunately also. [[And the drones?]] Mr Jan Szopiński asked for psychological support for soldiers. I have spoken of this, sir, indeed, our soldiers are very strong mentally, but if anyone needs it, of course, the support will be there. I'm coming to the end. Ms Anita Sowińska estimates that the border exceeds several hundred people every day, as she said. No, my fellow Member, that is not the case. There are sometimes several hundred attempts - I look at Minister Kamiński - there are several hundred attempts, but maybe several, sometimes several dozen people cross our border. The fact that several hundred people have appeared in Germany or maybe several thousand people during these few months, I will say this, unfortunately, according to our assumption, is that the border of our neighbours is less tight and thus they enter German territory. [[Voice from the room: That's exactly what it is.]] Mrs Falej asked about the PCK. Any charity activity that Lukaszenka will let in, which will mean Polish-Belarusian cooperation - as much as possible. We're open to her right now. [[Applause]] Three more people. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska - asylum mechanisms of the Union, why Poland does not use them. No, Commissioner, we do not use the Union's asylum mechanisms. There have been attempts to integrate the Union's asylum mechanisms, it was an attempt combined with that great wave of migration from 2015 to 2018. We gave it strong resistance at the June 2018 European Council. And we apply our asylum procedures. They are fully compatible with international law. It's fully compatible. We will not agree with the procedures of those countries which have a completely different attitude towards these matters, although consolation or luckily I can say that they are bringing their position closer to ours rather than the other way around. [[Applause]] Mrs Szmajdzińska and Mr Siekierski asked about the OSCE. Mrs Szmajdzińska also asked about bypass activities with countries that may have an impact on Russia and Belarus. I can tell you, but it's kind of more classified information that we're trying to do. Even today in Washington, this type of action is being taken. [[Applause]] Finally, Mrs Senyshin also asked about Frontex. I answered. Are we preparing deportations? Yes, we're preparing deportations. They're for those people who are in the center and that's what they're willing to say. You also asked about these attempts to cross the border. Like I said, those trials were 31 grand. Ladies and gentlemen! It is briefly such a panorama of answers to your questions. Once again, thank you very much, also for this discussion that took place here. We will also propose a resolution for the next session of the Sejm, because it is important that the Sejm of the Republic speak on this issue. Today I think that there is no time for this for various reasons, but thank you very much for this discussion. I would also like to thank the Members of the Law and Justice, the Members of the United Right, for your support, for showing understanding of this situation, for the full support of the Government. I think that today is such a time that, however, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland should support the Polish government and our institutions in the fight for the territorial integrity of the Republic of Poland. That's what we're counting on. That's what we're asking. Thank you very much. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u218	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. The discussion is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you all very much. We started by asking for this discussion, this debate to be held in a responsible manner, and so it was, and above all, substantive. All your voices, not only the club speeches, but also the questions, were really upbuilding today. Thank you very much for this. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, as the matter is very serious, we would like the Sejm Bureau, the Prime Minister, to mention this, to prepare a draft resolution for the next meeting of the Sejm, which would be the position of our House in relation to the situation at the Polish-Belarusian border. I propose, ladies and gentlemen, that, in view of our meeting on this important issue today, the Sejm should accept the government's information, especially since the Prime Minister's answers have really been as detailed as never before in response. [[Applause]] [[Then we agree.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say this last rule, so let me. Therefore, I propose that the Sejm accept the government's information about the situation at the Polish-Belarusian border and the actions being taken for information. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm... [[Voices from the room: Objection!]] In that case, ladies and gentlemen, as there has been an objection, we will proceed with this vote at the next session of the Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen, we have exhausted the agenda of the 41st meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. If any of your fellow Members would like to sign up, please. I can't see. Therefore, I consider the list of Members who have been made to make statements to be closed. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 min. 38 hrs. 20 min 44]] I'm reopening the session. The list of Members who have been made to the statements has already been closed by your marshal. So here we go. Mr Robert Obaz of the Left was the first. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u219	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, 9 November, on the International Day for Combating Fascism and Anti-Semitism, it is worth to speak out loud about situations where acts of aggression and hatred are taking place in our surroundings. And although these are not the situations we hear about on TV, we cannot accept them. In public space and in social media, materials appeared about the Jelenia Góra football club KS Jelenia Góra. During the games of the Jelenia Góra team, signs, symbols and inscriptions spreading aggression and hatred appear regularly at the stadium. In photos published online, you can see people wearing sweatshirts with Nazi symbolism, among others. It says "Blood and Honor." It is the name of an international Nazi organisation illegal in all countries of the European Union and North America, also recognised as a terrorist organisation in 2019. In Poland, the leaders of the organization are currently in prison and the ABW is engaged in fighting it. The supporters of the KS Krkonoše Jelenia Góra also sell stickers with the content of white patriots, on which there is a wilful hook, from the German Wolfsangel, a symbol used once by SS divisions and Nazis during World War II. Another case of disturbing behavior is the regular hanging of a banner with the inscription "good night left side" with the image of a figure beating the other character. This password is used by extreme environments and means encouraging the physical elimination of all people with left-wing views. In addition to this inscription on the same banner there is an image of a member of an extremely racist terrorist organization of the Ku Klux Klan in a characteristic white outfit. As a resident of Jelenia Góra and a parliamentarians of this region, I feel obliged to respond and to make such situations public. I do not agree with such behaviour and I strongly oppose the spread of aggression, hatred and contempt - all the more so when it comes to sports clubs financed by local grants that enable them to operate. The financing of the sports club and cooperation with the local government unit create a certain responsibility - both for the authorities of the club and for the local government. They should also be responsible for the environment associated with the club, including fans and their behaviour. The lack of reaction or disengagement from situations such as those described above means a certain consent to such actions and shows that people spreading aggression and hatred may remain unpunished. It is also worth considering the regulations and rules of competitions in which grants are granted for the operation of sports clubs. One of the actions that could prevent such situations is to secure competitions in such a way that grants are awarded to organisations whose environment does not promote fascist, Nazi, aggressive and hateful behaviours and patterns. Sport clubs, especially those operating thanks to urban subsidies, should be a model and eliminate dangerous behaviour. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u220	Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u221	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Negligence cases concerning the remuneration of civil police personnel are known both to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, as well as to the Members and Members. I therefore call on the Prime Minister, the entire government and all the Members, parliamentarians, Members and Senators to support the demand for increases in the wages of civil police workers. At present, wages are so small and low that police work is not attractive to young people, so they do not work in uniforms. At the same time, on the occasion, I would like to thank all uniforms, policemen and policemen from the Silesian garrison who defend Polish borders. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u222	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u223	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons Jan Józef Kasprzyk today informed the public that - I quote - in the face of the incomprehensible decisions of President Rafał Trzaskowski refusing the legality of the Independence March, I decided to give the ceremony a formal status, in accordance with the Assembly Act, and therefore the Independence March will have a state character. [[Applause]] In his communication to the public, Mr Kasprzyk pointed out, and I quote: everyone who wishes Poland well wishes to celebrate the National Independence Day in a calm, worthy way. [[Applause]] With great satisfaction and understanding I have received yours, Minister Kasprzyk, words referring to the need to commemorate the heroic acts of the defenders of our homeland. Their patriotism should never be forgotten, and our gratitude for the sacrifice of their blood should be celebrated by present and future generations. [[Yes, sir.]] The march of freedom and patriotism should be one of the elements of commemorating the actions of the heroes of that time. It should be a celebration of all Poles regardless of their faith, political sympathies, origin or sexual orientation, because we are all equalized children of our homeland and no one has the right To take that away from us. Mr Kasprzyk wrote that President Trzaskowski's decision was incomprehensible to him. I'm afraid there's been some kind of manipulation here that the Veterans' Office has fallen victim to. Firstly, our country is, according to the government, at the top of the next wave of disease associated with the COVID pandemic. Secondly, according to the Polish law on which Polish courts were based, three further independent judgments were made, according to which march organized on 11 November by the Association of Independence March should not take place. I am more than convinced that all soldiers and the entire civilian population fighting over the centuries in an unequal fight against the occupier did so for a free and law-abiding homeland in which a law-abiding citizen performs the duties and judgments of the Polish court, a homeland in which organizations, such as the Veterans' Office, will not put themselves above the final judgments of the courts, above the decisions of the presidents of cities or finally above the decisions of individual ministers. The office to which you chair has been appointed for specific purposes, among which there is no negotiating role between the city authorities, the court and private associations, which do not agree to the fulfilment of the judgments in force. And so on. in 2017 you had the amount of PLN 50 million recorded in the Budget Act. Do people and combatants around the Veterans' Office agree that in the future money will be used to rebuild the infrastructure of the city destroyed by militants of extremely right-wing organizations of often fascist nature? Do living witnesses and participants in war and post-war repression agree to such management of money intended to support their treatment, rehabilitation or assistance in difficult situations of life? Do those who have dedicated their lives and health now share, after decades, the resources allocated to their needs with organisations that sympathize with organizations that used to shoot at them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u224	Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u225	God's greetings to all officers, soldiers who serve at this time on our eastern wall! My Circle of Messenger, my formation didn't divide the hair into four when you had to give the army, the Border Guard, the police is a tool, which is a state of emergency. Without discussion, we supported this project by declaring, of course, limited, probably already to negative states, confidence in the government that is asking for it. We still have the rest of our faith in the expertise of a soldier, a police officer, a guard. We do not trust this superior authority, which is co-responsible for the crisis or the outcome of the current policy. Today is... This is what my statement serves to dictate this black note to the minutes of today's sitting. Today is a day of mourning for me in the Sejm and in the Republic of Poland, because the Polish heart cannot fall apart when in the heart of the former, great and once beautiful Republic of Poland the Polish authorities put up a fence. For now, provisional, it will be strengthened. They bet because they have to bet, and we support this project. Clearly, the border is not from the parade, a soldier on the border, a guard, a policeman wearing weapons not from the parade, and in these matters we, the Confederation, do not respect any pacifist superstitions. The state is here to make it work. But in this House - how many days ago, Mr. Marshal, not so much, a week - we adopted the next year of Józef Mackiewicz, God rest his soul. And in this I see the drama of the situation, until the tragedy went on - the year of Józef Mackiewicz, and here we participate in the next funeral of the Republic of Poland and the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, which he was a patriot and a singer. Today, the Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic of Poland spoke from this stand. He regretted that, yes, Russia would strengthen its presence in Belarus. I witnessed and participated in how Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki was involved in pushing Belarus deeper into Russian embraces last year. I participated in these - of course for picu, for PR - secret meetings of government representatives with the Prime Minister, with representatives of the opposition, which was intended only to be used in the media of the regime to say that everyone only supports the right line of the party. Our separate voice was not reported, and we observed at that time that the remains of any room of manoeuvre that the Republic had had until yesterday in its politics were being cut off. Sanctions - said the Prime Minister from here - will hurt Polish entrepreneurs a little. Of course, do you expect to see the Germans, Italians or who else is doing business in Belarus shutting down these businesses? Of course Polish business will suffer, important national interest. Turkey - our ally in NATO. Doesn't that give rise to any question marks? Our ally in NATO - the Prime Minister said that he was involved in the transfer of refugees to our eastern border. So the situation is much more complicated than today's debate. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And today is a day of mourning. It's a sad day and trimtadration and triumphalism are out of place here.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u226	Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u227	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I am sadly listening to the voices and the verdicts given regarding the event at the district hospital in Pszczyna. On September 22, a 30-year-old pregnant patient died there because of sepsis. According to the media, a pregnant woman reported to the hospital because of the amniotic fluid draining from a live pregnancy. When taken, amniotics were found and pre-diagnosed birth defects of the foetus were confirmed. In the course of hospitalization, the fetus died. The patient had no surgery to remove the deceased child, which was likely the cause of systemic infection and death. The family reported the possibility of making a mistake by the doctors who cared for it. There's an investigation going on. Death unexpected, unnecessary. Maybe it could be avoided - this will explain the investigation. Every medic, doctor, nurse, paramedic has a duty to do what they do. The most important goal is to take care of the patient's health and life. There's no more important purpose. Every life should be properly monitored. The decision is intended to protect health and life, there are no rules that would exempt anyone from it. There's a group of people who want to take advantage of this event. For what? To raise political capital? To increase recognition? Let's not do this. Let us not use this tragic event to intensify hatred. This may lead to further unnecessary events. The investigation is ongoing. I offer my condolences to the family and to the loved ones of the deceased. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u228	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u229	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! If he asked the young peterman today about who Teofil Budzanowski was, he would probably just shrug his arms. But when we address this question to someone from an older generation, there will be a story of an extraordinary man. Theophile Budzanowski was born at the end of the 19th century in Kujawski Rypin, in December 1894. Already in 1905 he participated in a school strike in defence of Polish language. Eight years later, after completing his teacher's seminary, he began to work as a teacher. During World War I he acted in the POW ranks and then fought in 6. The Legion Infantry regiment. He was a volunteer in the Soviet War. He was ambitious and perfected his skills. In 1928 he graduated from the Faculty of Humanities at the University of Warsaw and received the title of teacher of secondary schools. He worked in renowned junior high schools in Warsaw and Grodno, starting his political career at the end of the 1930s. He was Councilman of Grodna, and since 1938 he was a Member of the Grodno Land at the V Sejm. As a reserve officer, he took an active part in the September campaign at the Staff of the Operation Group and later became involved in various aspects of the conspiracy activity. He led secret teaching, both civilian and military. He was the founder and first commander of the 5th District Group of the Circuit of the Śródmieście. During the Warsaw Uprising he fought in the 5th Group of the Axe. Later he was in charge of one of the subsections of the "Tum" Group. He was badly wounded in mid-September 1944 and was evacuated to Brewinów. When the war ended, he returned to his beloved teaching work - initially in Tomaszów Mazowiecki and later, since 1947, in Piotrków Trybunalski. Then he became the director of the Piotrkowska Sorbony, the First High School of General Education for them. Bolesław Chrobry. He held this position until 1950 when he was arrested in the framework of spatter repressions, when the Security Office worked out independence organisations among school students. He was rehabilitated in 1957 and reinstated as head of high school. Chroatian. He completed them until his death in 1959. He was awarded the Order of Virtuti Militari and the Cross of Fights. Teacher, councilman, envoy, soldier, youth teacher, poet and prosaic. Theofil Budzanowski, an ordinary man with an unusual resume. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u230	Thank you. Mr Jacek Kurzepa, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u231	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Polish people and Poles! We are in a special situation, 2 days before the next anniversary of the reminiscent of 11 November 1918, i.e. the time for Poland to regain independence, and at the same time in a situation of historically very pregnant, in a situation of conflict at the Polish-Belarusian border. During this time, the so-called political novelty is sometimes used. A hybrid war, a war on text messages or tweets. Or are we just dealing with a crawling invasion, a state of unspeakable war? In our Polish homes these days such questions and search for answers will certainly dominate the conversations of Poles. It's wonderful to breathe the air of freedom. It's obvious and we've been experiencing this for many years. We would not therefore want to lose this, either. Our concern is therefore justified. Therefore, it is worth to realize that the independence of the homeland is not given, but is a constant pursuit of it and its durability. It is a constant challenge to the future for the young generations of Poles, but also commitment to the past, respect for the heritage that is the product of our predecessors. Each of us, Poles and Poles, has the key to the greatness of our homeland. These are glorious and heroic actions when necessary, but also daily benediction and bonding between us Poles. Today, the challenge that is real is to defend the cohesion of the nation and the territorial integrity of the homeland. I understand this as a clear cooperation and support for those who are currently in government, the Government of the United Right, who is now, by nature, carrying the main burden and taking responsibility for how we respond to threats from the East, and is not avoiding it. Today I address you, Poles and Poles: let us create a monolithic, coherent and cooperative power of the Community nation against these threats. It's worth it. It's important, and history will settle it for us. But I would also like to address the political class, and we too depend on a lot. It is to us that the faces of the voters who, when entrusting us with various mandates and honors, expect us not to do anything wrong, to behave properly and to take great care of the common good, which is the homeland. Therefore, I ask, encourage and appeal to the political class regardless of the level of responsibility - it is both the government level, the parliament level, the regional dimension, the self-government dimension and the whole civil society - to preserve the class and the utmost care in the service to which we have been called. It's her, Poland, that's the most important thing. It is concern for her and service to her that is the main field of our politicians and activity. Each of us must take into account the right state, what is expected and important for Poland and Poles at the moment, unity, cooperation and patriotism of the highest attempt. So be it. May the Independence Day celebrated in 2 days be a powerful example of such an attitude and such thinking. Poles, let's stick together because the country is in need. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u232	Mrs Ewa Kozanecka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u233	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We are on the eve of the anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. Just as 103 years ago, our heroes of the nation fought the independence of Poland, and today it is our common duty to care for Poland's sovereignty and security. Therefore, the current situation at the Polish-Belarusian border and the migration crisis force us, Poles, to defend the Polish border. This is the largest attempt so far to violate the integrity of the eastern border of Poland and the European Union. It is a planned hybrid attack and actions of Lukashenka consisting of mass attempts to illegally cross the border between Belarus and Lithuania, Latvia and Poland. Since the beginning of the year, the Border Guard has recorded over 30,000. attempts to cross the Polish border illegally. The Belarusian authorities use immigrants in an organized and cynical manner to destabilise the situation on the eastern border of Poland and achieve their own political goals. These actions must be strongly condemned. Alexander Lukashenka must face the consequences of her unlawful and unethical actions. Attacking the borders of Poland, at the same time attacking the borders of the European Union and a member of NATO. These aggressions clearly condemned our allies and called for an immediate end to the conflict. In order to ensure the protection of the border between the Republic of Poland and the European Union, additional forces of Border Guard officers supported by more than 12 000 have been assigned to the area of greatest threat. soldiers and police officers, as well as the Territorial Defence Army and special forces. Defense of the border is our priority. I therefore call on all opposition politicians to rise above divisions and forget about political interests, animosities, disputes, in a spirit of unity and solidarity, to take care of the sovereignty of our homeland. The safety of Poles is our common primary responsibility. We will not allow the external border of the European Union to be breached. Safe Poland is our national common goal. Poles support actions taken by the government and from the Polish authorities expect above all security and border protection. At the same time, I would like to express my respect and solidarity and appreciate the efforts of all the services protecting our border. Thank you to the uniformed services, their families, who are anxiously waiting for their loved ones to return. I also thank the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. We are with you, we serve support and prayer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u234	Thank you. Mrs Teresa Glenc, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u235	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Recently, we have witnessed disturbing events on our eastern border. All officers of the Border Guard, Police, soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army, soldiers of the Polish Army for their dedication and service, I express my thanks and warmly greet them. We Poles, thanks to your tireless work, courage and dedication feel calm, we can live safely, sleep peacefully. On the eve of the feast of independence we recall the memory and heroism of our heroes who won independence of Poland. Also today, our common duty is to care for the sovereignty and security of our homeland. No one is exempt from this obligation. May our holy patron, patron of Poland, Jesuit, martyr, saint patron of unity Andrzej Bobola be our authority and guide for all of us in this difficult and uncertain time. His humility, courage, and at the same time a great love for his country here and now should distinguish us Poles in a special way. It is these qualities of our saint that we treat as our own. So let us ask: St. Andrzej, a great intercessor of Poland and Poles, pray for us. [[Pray for us.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u236	Thank you. Mr Piotr Uruski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u237	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Today, as always, we will put security first. We have detained migrants in 2015 and we will oppose them now that we have come to fight the Lukashenka regime. On the Polish-Belarusian border there is a storm of migrants brought by Belarusian services and it is hard to believe that not so long ago irresponsible people encouraged the admission of migrants to Poland. They criticized the state of emergency introduced at the Polish-Belarusian border. They criticized the construction of the wall on our eastern border. In a word, they said what Lukashenka wanted to be transmitted in Poland. The European Union speaks directly to defend the Polish border also as an external border of the European Union. The only ones who want to move migrants are Lukashenka, the Belarusian regime that makes millions of dollars and the Polish opposition. Therefore, on behalf of the inhabitants of Sanocka, Brzozowa, Bieszczady and all Poles, I thank the soldiers, the police, the Border Guard for such a difficult and dangerous service in defence of Poland, in defence of our eastern border. We can do this. We support our soldiers, support border guards, police officers, support our territorials. We will defend the Polish border. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u238	Member of Claudia Jachir, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u239	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Chairman of the Kaczyński Security Committee! Do you know what was trending on Twitter today? Word to shoot - 16 thousand. times. This is what your war rhetoric has led to. If the Polish government does not change its approach to people at the border, this crisis will only grow. After all, Lukashenka brings in more and more groups of desperate people, fleeing from war, hunger, persecution precisely because she sees that it works, that it destabilizes the situation in Poland. If our government had followed democratic principles, followed international treaties, applied asylum procedures, created even additional centres for these people, verified their identity and grounds for staying in the Union instead of sending their children back to the cold forest, the Belarusian regime would not have been able to play this in its favour. And so it can show how cruel Poland is. So I'm asking. : When will they be admitted to the medical border? After all, there are dying people out there, giving birth to women, severely ill, frozen children. We need to let the press in there. There must be independent information about what you are doing with them, since you are using illegal detentions against Poles and Poles in peaceful protests. I got the gas myself on a peaceful demonstration. So what do you do with these people when there's no control over it? Allow non-governmental organisations to enter the border - now they have taken over the tasks of the state and they are the ones who are helping. They know how to do it, they have experience in it. What do you think the NGOS are bothering you about? If you're afraid of different foundations, what are you doing to these people out there? Finally, we, Members and Members, have the right to know what is going on there, to have control over it, because that is what our voters and our voters expect. We are criticized for going there, to the border, watching what is happening, trying to help, because most of this House is indifferent to this suffering of people. But for example. Members from other countries come to the Polish-Belarusian border because they are not indifferent and cannot pretend that the biggest humanitarian crisis in Europe is not happening. Why don't you ask the Union and Frontex for help? And were you interested in the fate of the residents of the special zone? Did you ask them how they feel right now? What are they experiencing? They are the ones who save Poland's honor and provide humanitarian aid as much as they can, everyone to a different extent, although they openly say that no one asked them if they wanted to be heroes. Dear citizens, thank you so much for the green lights that save people's lives. I know that by lighting them, you are putting yourself in jeopardy for this ruthless power. It's not the helpers who keep the remnants of humanity that do the wrong thing. That's the power, blocking these people at the border, letting Putin play. You often emphasize how strong and wonderful Poland is. And this power really came from the knees, can't it help a few thousand people fleeing the war? He can't verify who has grounds for asylum? Do you have to take these people to the woods illegally? We are depopulated on an unprecedented scale, we have huge gaps in the labour market, lack of halls, nurses, senior care lies and society is getting old. Practically on every shop or restaurant site there is a card I will accept you to work. Anyone who renovates an apartment knows that a crew is waiting for months, sometimes even a year. And in a situation like this, it didn't occur to you that it's not the subject of abortion that falls from the sky, but these migrants. Just verify them, provide them with an intensive Polish language course, vocational training and commit them to taking up employment within a year... [[But they don't want to work.]] ...so they can become full citizens and citizens of our homeland. As we know from history, only tolerant multicultural Poland was truly great. It is also about not trending the word "shoot," but helping the word on Twitter. [[Voice from the hall: I pray.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u240	Member Tadeusz Tomaszewski, club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u241	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! My statement concerns the transmission of an appeal to the President of the Council of Ministers on the prevention of costs. On 4 November in Gniezno a meeting of members and members of the New Left, together left, representatives of trade unions, NGOs such as the Gniezno Association of Amazons, the Association of the Rehabilitation and Cultural Centres Promyk associating people with disabilities, the Polish Union of Działków and the Council of the Viniary Housing Association took place. In the appeal adopted by the participants of this meeting, we read: Call on the President of the Council of Ministers to counter costs. Participants of the meeting call on the government to take immediate action to reduce the negative effects of rampant inflation in Poland. Daily higher prices are the result of the policies of the PiS and the United Right. Inflation in October this year was 6,8% Year by year, and the Deputy Minister of Finance admitted that this year's price increase could reach 8%. The yeast is ruthless - writes the participants of this meeting - eats the value of social benefits, pensions, pensions and wages. It pushes, especially the elderly, the lonely, often with disabilities, into poverty and lack of ability to acquire medicines. The participants of the meeting support the proposals presented to the High House and the declaration addressed to the Government. The idea is for our government to implement the following measures: firstly, to temporarily reduce the excise duty on fuel by 50 gr per litre in the winter period, secondly, to undertake a systematic reduction of VAT to 15% In the period in which this can be introduced, taking into account the lowest rate of VAT in force in the European Union, thirdly, he introduced electricity compensation for increased electricity prices for all, and not just selected households, fourthly, has led to a realization of the wage increases in the budgetary area and social benefits above inflation levels, fifthly, in the context of rampant inflation and the effects of the increase in the amount of housing loans, he considered helping families to repay housing loans. Finally, the participants of this meeting, about 70 people, write: Prime Minister, we call for a concrete strategy to fight inflation against galloping prices with the National Bank of Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u242	Mr Antoni Macierewicz, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u243	Mr. Marshal! First of all, I would like to thank you very much for allowing me to make this statement, although I have come forward with some delay and this has not been noticed. Once again, I would like to thank you for the liberalisation and openness of this matter. I would like to refer to the three points that were raised during today's very important debate on the situation in which Poland is currently in place: firstly, to a case called the border crisis, secondly, to a question related to very often during this debate raised by the opposition's request to agree with the European Union, to ask for support to the European Union, to other countries and to other international structures, and thirdly to the issue of the media and their presence and role in this crisis. The issue of the current crisis, which is called the migration crisis. High Izbo, ladies and gentlemen, this is obviously not a migration crisis. This phase has the nature of an attack with the help of communities that are looking for earnings in Germany and other countries, so it may have the appearance of migration, but it is not migration, it is not a question of an attack of this nature. The Russian attack on Poland, the imperialist Russian attack on Poland has been going on for years. This phase today has a migratory shape. Tomorrow it can have a different shape. This must be realised and cannot be focused solely on migration-related issues, because in such a case we will prevent ourselves from taking action for the future, we will prevent Poland from guaranteeing security in the future. Secondly, the question of openness to seeking assistance from international organisations and other countries. Of course, the support of other countries is always extremely important. Given that Russian imperialism mainly uses misinformation, hybrid attack and military attack, NATO is, of course, the right point of reference here. This does not mean that we should not talk to the European Union or seek support there - the Prime Minister said so, and rightly so - but on one main subject in which the European Union can support us, namely in economic sanctions against Belarus and Russia. It must not be forgotten that Russia plays a key role in this whole matter. So if the European Union had taken such economic sanctions, it would certainly have helped us very much. Is it real? I don't know. Is it real what has been reported here to call an international European congress? That would have its consequences in the form of including Mr.Lukenka and Mr. Putin in this too. It would have ended the way the Vienna Congress ended, and I would have really warned against it. Do you understand that you are putting Poland in jeopardy, that you are giving Poland into foreign hands, that you are creating grounds for threatening Poland's security and independence? External support is always needed, but independence depends primarily on the strength of the Polish people, independence depends primarily on the solidarity of our society as a whole, independence depends on whether we respect the constitution and support those who fight for freedom and independence of their homeland, and that is absolutely obvious. Finally, the issue of the media, which was also very strongly raised here. I would like to remind you of those media that promoted Mr. Frasyniuk's statements, Mr. Różański's (The Bell), the statements of another general, whose name I will no longer call. These are media that act against Poland. These are media that fight the security of Poland. These are media that are ready to destroy Polish independence. If we want to give such media access to the border, it means that we are acting to the detriment of Poland. Don't do this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u244	That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u245	Statement on Wanda Płętawska's 100th anniversary of her birthday. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! From this place I wish to wish Mrs.Wanda Płętawska, who celebrated her 100th birthday on November 2nd. Mrs. Wanda's entire life, as well as her patriotic attitude during World War II, deserve the highest respect and appreciation. Ms Wanda Płętawska is a doctor of medical sciences, a specialist in psychiatry, an extraordinary professor of the Papal Theological Academy and, above all, a great moral authority. During World War II she was imprisoned in a German concentration camp in Ravensbrück. In 2016 she was awarded the Order of the White Eagle for her Christian witness of humanism and contribution to the development of Catholic social science, as well as in recognition of her merits for the Republic of Poland. Mrs. Wanda, once again, happy birthday, the grace of God every day, and above all, much health.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-09-sejm-41-1.u246	Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. Let's get this over with. 41st meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 42nd session of the Sejm, scheduled for 16 and 17 November 2021, was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 21 min 29]]
