ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u1	I open the second session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senators Mariusz Gromka and Jerzy Wcisła to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Jerzy Wcisla. Dear Senators, in connection with the outbreak, after consulting the Senior Convention, I have decided to give this meeting a special formula. The meetings will be held at the same time in a traditional manner and using means of remote communication in a remote manner. The rules for the participation of senators in Senate meetings in a remote manner are laid down in Article. 67b Senate Rules of Procedure. Your Senators taking part in the meeting remotely please make sure that your iPads are connected to the power supply and the cameras are turned on. Please also ensure that the iPad position and camera lens are visible during the connection. You can subscribe to questions and speak in the discussion via chat in the application. Legislative requests, speeches and statements should be sent by e-mail to the address previously sent to you by the Senate Office. There is also a special telephone number at your disposal. Under this number you can consult the content of proposals of a legislative nature or the notification of technical problems. Don't turn on the microphones yourself. It will be possible to speak only after it has been given by the Speaker of the Senate and after the launch of the microphone by the informatics of the Senate Chancellery. I also inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If one of your senators fails to join the session before blocking the session in the application or if one of you loses the call, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. Please turn on the razor. Please state the results of the vote. 88 senators voted and so many are currently attending the sitting. I remind the senators who use the application to participate remotely in the sitting that they start voting, so-called. polling, Webex will cause a message to appear. To take part in the vote, click "OK." I would also like to remind you that you need to press the button 2 times after you cast your vote in the voting window and in response to the confirmation question. High Senate, I inform you that on 2 August 2021, the Chief Environmental Inspector submitted a document entitled: The Court of Justice of the European Union held that the Court of Justice of the European Union held that the Court of Justice of the European Union was not bound by the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union v Commission and the Court of Justice of the European Union v Commission and the Court of Justice of the European Union, which held that the Court of Justice of the European Union held that the Court of Justice of the European Union had jurisdiction in respect of the Court of Justice of the European Union and This document is included in print No 479. On 5 August 2021, the information was submitted to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. The committees at the joint meeting took note of this document. I would like to inform you that on 30 July 2021 the President of the Council of Ministers forwarded to the Senate a document on the implementation in 2020 of the Act of 9 June 2011 on support for family and foster care. This document is contained in print No 478. On 5 August 2021, the information was addressed to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and to the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy at its meeting on 6 October 2021, and the Committee on the Territorial Government and State Administration, at its meeting on 26 October 2021, took note of this document. I would also like to inform you that on 29 June 2021, the President of the National Regional Council of the Courts of Auditors provided the Senate with a report on the activities of the Regional Audit Chambers and the implementation of the budget by local government units in 2020. It is included in print No 443. On 13 July 2021, the Senate Marshal sent a report to the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. The Commission meeting was held on 26 October. took note of the report. In addition, I would like to inform you that on 7 June 2021 the President of the Council of Ministers forwarded to the Senate a document on road safety and the activities carried out in this regard in 2020. This document is contained in print No 421. On 10 June 2021, the document was addressed to the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure. Commissions on 26 October this year They've read the document. I inform you that the Sejm at its thirty-nineth meeting on 14 October 2021 adopted the majority of the Senate's amendments to the Law amending the Law on Penal Code and some other laws, to the Act amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws, to the Act amending the Act on Foreigners and some other laws, as well as to the Act amending the Law on Road Transport and some other laws. The Sejm has adopted part of the amendments tabled by the Senate to the Act amending the Act on Trade Limitation on Sundays and holidays and on some other days, to the Act amending the Act on Income of Local Government Units and some other laws, as well as to the Act amending the Act on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2021 and the Act on Income of Local Government Units. Furthermore, at the same meeting, on 14 October, the Sejm rejected the only amendment tabled by the Senate to the Act amending the Budget Act for 2021, and rejected the Senate resolution rejecting the Act amending the Law on State aid in the upbringing of children and certain other laws, and rejected the Senate's resolution rejecting the Act amending the Construction Law and the Law on Planning and Spatial Development. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the twenty-nine and thirty Senate meetings, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to make available to the senators the pleno titulo. If no one of your senators raises objections to them, they will be adopted at the next meeting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance has not drawn up a report on the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and certain other laws; point six. This item will not be included at present on the agenda approved by the Senate, but will be supplemented by this item once the report has been drawn up. I would remind you that the draft law to be discussed in the first item of the agenda was introduced by the Council of Ministers as an urgent project. In this case, the time limit laid down in Article shall not apply. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. The law contained in the first paragraph will be put to the vote as soon as this point is discussed. I propose that points 3rd, 4th, 6th, 8th, 10th, 13th and 15th to 20th of the draft agenda be examined, even though the Commission's reports on these laws have been submitted at a later date than those laid down in Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. State Senators, I propose a change in the order of consideration of the previous paragraph of the twelfth: the Act amending the Act on the Functioning of Coal Mining and certain other laws and consider it as point two; so far point nineteen: the Law on the establishment of the National Day of the Victory of the Wielkopolska Uprising and consider it as a third point; to date, point 20: Act amending the Sports Act and consider it as the fourth point; the third point so far: the Act amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws and consider it as point five; the previous paragraph 18: the Law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws and consider it as point six; so far point twenty-third: the Law amending the Law on Road Traffic and consider it as point seven; so far point 10: the Act amending the Law on the Protection of the Environment and the Law on the greenhouse gas emission management system and other substances and consider it as point twenty-first; so far point eleven: Law amending the Waste Act and certain other laws and consider it as point twenty-second. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: second reading of the draft law on amending the law on spa medicine, spas and areas of spa protection and spa communities and consider it as point twenty-six. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I don't see... Oh, Senator Frost. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u2	I, Mr. Marshal, have a question about the bill... [[Microphone.]] I have a question about the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act, because in this combination we have received, it's supposed to be a point, but no point, so to speak. Is this gonna be point six and it's all moving along?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u3	No, he's gonna be... Since the report is not yet ready, there are many amendments, it will be introduced as soon as the report is ready. [[Oh, she's just about to be introduced. And when can he be considered?]] Probably as point six. [[Six. Good. Thank you.]] Good. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 30th second Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term. Dear Senators! I would like to inform you that today at 12.00 a half-hour break will be announced, during which the opening of the exhibition will take place. I dedicate this to the initiator, Senator Czerwinski. We will proceed to the vote on the first item, as I have already said, after the adjournment which will be announced after consideration of this point, because amendments have been tabled and the committee will have to meet. The remaining votes will take place at the end of the Senate meeting. The second day of the meeting will begin at 10.00 a.m. with a point on information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the situation arising after the decision of the TSUE on the mine On this day we will also consider point twelve: the Law on the amendment of the Law of the Hunting Law. Tomorrow at 3:00 p.m., a half-hour recess will be announced. On the third day of the meeting we will start at 9.00 a.m. from hearing information about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period of January and June 2021, the Presidency of Portugal in the Council of the European Union. Tomorrow, the agenda may be supplemented by a point: information by the President of the Council of Ministers on the control of inflation by the government and rising prices. I would like to draw the attention of the senators to the fact that the Committee on Infrastructure in the course of the review of the law amending the law on road traffic, item seven of the agenda, saw the need for legislative changes going beyond the matter of the law and on the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 of the Senate Rules of Procedure presented a proposal for a legislative initiative. This initiative is included in print No 541. I ask all senators to be present during this item on the agenda, as we will vote on the possible extension of the agenda to this initiative. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Law on the Construction of the State Border Security. The text of the Act is contained in print No 538, and the report of the Commission In print No 538 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Marek Komorowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senators and gentlemen of the Senators! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, I report on the work of the committee on the Law of 14 October 2021 on the construction of the State Border Security. The draft law on the construction of state border security was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 12 October and on the basis of an article. Article 123 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1st Constitution... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Please...]] Excuse me, am I disturbing anyone? [[I'm asking you kindly to focus. We're in session.]] ...was declared urgent by the Council of Ministers. Sejm print 1657. This project was the subject of work by the Parliamentary Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and was then adopted by the Sejm on 14 October by 274 votes for, 174 against and 1 abstention. On 15 October, the bill was passed to the Senate. Senator's print No 538. The purpose of the Act is to secure the state border against illegal crossing. The law lays down the rules for the preparation and implementation of a State border security which constitutes an external border within the meaning of Article. Point 2 of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Union Code of Rules governing the movement of persons across borders. This will be a physical, technical or electronic protection, including against illegal crossing. This security is provided by State border protection equipment, construction equipment, construction or other construction works together with installations to ensure the use of the barrier for its intended purpose, and accompanying infrastructure, including electronic or telecommunications. This investment consists in designing, carrying out construction works, maintenance, reconstruction, renovation and demolition, including objects remaining in collision with it. The construction of a barrier is an investment of the public objective 3 (1) (a) 2. The Act on public procurement does not apply to this investment, i.e. to the construction of a barrier. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. There's a simplified procedure here. No building permit is required, the decision to determine the location of the public-purpose investment, the drawing up of a construction project. 6. Information on the barrier is not public information It's an art. 7. The investor is the chief officer of the Border Guard. 4. The Central Anti-corruption Office shall exercise control over the contracts relating to this investment. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. The decision to implement the investment, i.e. to build a barrier, is immediately implemented It's an art. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 point 2 of the Act. At the committee meeting there was a discussion during which the Minister spoke and there were questions. And it must be made clear that the Belarusian border service has ceased to perform its functions. On the contrary, it provides equipment for wire cutting and destruction of the border barrier and oversees the destruction of the border. In this respect, the Belarusian border guard helps. So building on the barrier border You can use different wordings here. Whether an engineering barrier is fully justified, necessary and necessary because of the situation already existing since July of this year, which increases from month to month at the border of Poland with Belarus. The Senate committees of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions at its joint meeting on 26 October adopted a proposal for the adoption of this law without amendments. And this proposal, on behalf of the two joint committees, I recommend to the High Senate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u5	Thank you very much, senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Let me remind you that I have committed the marshals to enforce this minute. We're gonna try to do this in a pretty radical way. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question about whether there was a wider discussion at the committee meeting about a 200-metre belt around this wall. Because there is a discussion on this subject. What exactly will be the status of this territory of the Republic of Poland? What does it look like on the constitutional side? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u7	I mean, there were questions about this 200 m wide belt, as is the article. 8th Bill. It must be said that the Polish border with Belarus, which is 418 km long, is not a uniform border. This border runs through the forest, through the swamps, through the rivers. So there are sections where this dam is definitely not going to be built. This 200 m belt is mentioned in the bill... I mean, you have to interpret it. It's about those sections where a barrier or a firewall will be built... and that limitation results in... It is not mandatory, it is optional. And it shows... Content of the Article 8 provides: if this is due to investment needs. So, while the dam was being built, if that were the case... It is difficult to say at the moment what, maybe preventing building on the Polish side of this barrier. You can expect different things. We have witnessed how, before the introduction of the state of emergency, a group of our citizens even destroyed the existing, provisional, one can say, barrier, i.e. It's a fence. So the voivode will be able to introduce such an order or basically ban a stay in this area of 200 m for all but the owners, etc. And it's just gonna be for the duration of the investment, and probably not for the whole length of it, just for the part where it might happen. [[Voice from the room: How much can it be forbidden to enter...]] Up to 200 m...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u8	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Halin Poor. [[It could be less, because it's supposed to be no wider than 200 meters, depending on how...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u9	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I would like to ask if the opinion of the Ombudsman on the construction of the security was presented at the committee's meeting, because I know that opinion was sent to the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u10	I mean... The Ombudsman personally did not attend the meeting of the committee. The Ombudsman's Office has remotely raised objections to the Article. 8 or Article 8 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L This position was presented by a member of the Ombudsman's Office. It's like it's the same... There was a repeat of what we have in the senate materials. [[May I ask, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u11	Well, I suggest I say so, in the second round, because Senator Jackowski is checking in, too. [[Good.]] And right now, the question is asked by Senator Jacek Bury.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u12	Mr. Senator, I have a question about the fact that the Białowieża Forest is also protected by UNESCO, it is already a world heritage. Were there any consultations aimed at carrying out wise actions, implementing smart solutions that will protect the Polish border, protecting Poles, but at the same time also taking care of this heritage, the game that is there, and the natural resources that exist in this area? [[Voice from the room: Minister of Environment...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u13	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u14	I think the Minister will answer this question in detail. In general, the question of the Polish border with Belarus needs to be said in this way. Of course it also includes the Białowieża Forest, that we currently have 13, well, you can say, 14 border crossings, and is considered as if connecting 3 further road crossings. There's also a border crossing in the forest, such as a walk-bike. I'm sure we need to monitor the entire area, but the investment will certainly not destroy the forest's values and act against the game there. But I don't know about that kind of detail. There wasn't a...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u15	Thank you very much. Senator Piech.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u16	Mr. Senator, I have a question for you. Poland also borders Ukraine, Lithuania and Russia from the east. Are you on these stretches of the border? The ones with Ukraine, with Lithuania and Russia Is there such pressure on immigrants, too, or is the situation stable there? Did you talk to the committee about this?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u17	In general, the eastern border is the former border with the former... i.e. is the border with the former Soviet Union. It is known that at the moment it is the border with Ukraine, Belarus, Lithuania, and at the top, in the Kaliningrad region Other episodes In addition to the section of Belarus There are no such events at the moment, no signals have been reported concerning such events. It is known that there is a problem at the border of Lithuania with Belarus, but whether it will appear later on the border of Lithuania with Poland, it is difficult to say. However, this border is not the external border of the European Union, as is our direct border with Belarus, which mostly runs in the Podlasie Voivodeship, from which I, Mariusz Gromko and Jacek Bogucki are senators. We know the situation as if we know, maybe more, closer, we know more precisely what the situation is in this area. But when it comes to other sections of the border, we don't know the kind of situation that we're in so much trouble with trying to cross the border illegally. Because it must be said that the construction of a barrier or barrier is not a construction which is intended to aim at the fact that the Polish border will not be crossed. The construction of this barrier is so that the border cannot be crossed illegally. As far as border crossing is concerned, it is only at the border with Belarus that there are 7 road crossings, 5 railway crossings and these border crossings legally, that we can still cross the border.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u18	Thank you very much. Senator Mammoths.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to ask if the Legislative Bureau had tabled any amendments at the committee meeting and whether they had been taken over by the senators of any group.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u20	We have the material of the Legislative Bureau, his opinion on the law on the construction of the state border security. There are 12 amendments proposed in this material. However, at the meeting of the committee, a request was made for the adoption of the law without amendments, this proposal was accepted and there were no other proposals. I can say that this proposal was adopted by a majority of almost 54% The votes of the senators voting. As far as the amendments are concerned, I have read these amendments, but it seems to me, ladies and gentlemen, that the proposal was justified... [[I mean, whether or not someone took over.]] No, they weren't taken over.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u21	Thank you very much. Senator Jazłowicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u22	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to ask how it will be built, walled in wetlands, rivers, rivers. Is he gonna be on some stakes? Did you analyze this situation? And has the latest border security solutions been analysed in such areas? If so, why have they not been chosen?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u23	Mrs. Senator, at the committee meeting, there was no mention of building this on any stakes, on the rivers or on such waters. I said in my speech that the limit is not uniform. And it must be said that when it comes to the height of this barrier, it is within 5 m, maybe up to 5.5 m. At the committee meeting it was presented so that it could look like a dam on the land border between Greece and Turkey, where at some time there was a great deal of pressure on migration. She just passed the test in that area. So the analysis is that only building this kind of barrier can stop this movement. She'll be built on land, not on water, I don't know anything about it being built on water. I think it's gonna look a little different to secure the water border. Besides, there are representatives of the Border Guard, you're the Minister, so they can expand the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u24	Thank you. Senator Łyczak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u25	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, I would like to ask whether during the committee's deliberations the Minister or someone else spoke about the possible financial support we will receive from the European Union. After all, the border with Belarus is the national border, but also the eastern border of the European Union. I would like to ask you if there was any support, whether we would receive any. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u26	Please redirect this question to the Minister. I wouldn't want to be in charge here. These are talks with the European Union, they are certainly ongoing, maybe some new information is being analysed. For today, as far as I know, just the Polish side is to build this dam. Will there be compensation for this question please redirect it to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u27	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Ujazdowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u28	Mr President, I would like to ask you how you justify the article. 7 Act excluding information on construction, security and technical parameters from the rules on the right to public information .. to the full extent. The legislator does not even allow the right to public information to exist after the construction of the wall. How do you justify this, and do you think this is a necessary part of the bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u29	I mean, I think my personal opinion on this... [[There are no private opinions of senators...]] Well, there's no private... [[...in public affairs.]] But you asked... I'm the committee's rapporteur, not the senator's rapporteur... [[Then how does the committee justify it?]] We've accepted this information that it's off the record, that's all. I believe that this is the correct record.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u30	So there was no more discussion about it. [[No.]] You're asking Senator Kwiatkowski a question. Is Senator Kwiatkowski asking a question or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u31	Yes, sir. Three technical short questions. There was a question of accepting the amendments of the Legislative Bureau. Is it true that the adoption of the proposal for a law without amendments to these amendments could no longer be tabled, but could this be done in plenary? Second question. The Senator rapporteur said that the proposal was adopted by a majority of 54% Voices. [[Close.]] Was the result of the vote 7:6, to put it simply that public opinion Could she understand us? And the third question: is it simply a condition for the Polish government to submit an application for financial support from the European Union? Is that enough to make that kind of money?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u32	I thought... because Senator Kwiatkowski was asking some other questions on the committee... As far as these questions are concerned, it's close to 54%. The votes are 7:6, just so we're clear. The first question was... [[Can the amendments of the Legislative Office be tabled in plenary?]] And... Well, they weren't... It is well known that they can be tabled in plenary, as there is a possibility of legislative amendments being tabled during the second reading. And the third question I'm sending to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u33	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Rotnick a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u34	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a general question. When I read this bill, I actually feel like we have no control over anything. Because the investment is not governed by separate provisions, neither by construction law nor by water law, nor by environmental protection, nor by environmental information, there is no building permit or notification, there is no localisation decision, no construction project, etc., etc. So what's the basis for this? A one-man decision or a whim? Is this a period, I don't know, a war threat? How is this to be interpreted? Because it's actually lawless. Someone's gonna make a decision, a team of 12 ministers, and we're gonna tap it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, the situation at the border is a dynamic situation and an emergency situation. I, when I read this bill, interpret it completely differently. I interpret it so that the government stood at the level of the task and took the necessary steps to stabilise the situation at the border. There is no alternative but to stabilise this situation. Therefore, it is not possible to introduce... This is a special act, in an emergency, urgent mode. The general rules cannot therefore be applied to this situation. There, the situation can become a dramatic situation. Inflow to the eastern border of the Union, Poland, can be so dynamic that it can be difficult to grasp. It is hard to imagine that this is now under the full construction procedure in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, with all deadlines, protests. Well, let's create... what do you propose? It's to create a law that couldn't be done, and maybe a year or more, to build a firewall at the border. I was in the plenary session of the Sejm, in the first plenary session, because I just wanted to see the atmosphere of this discussion. I was in the first plenary session, in the hall, downstairs, when the state of emergency was being introduced, I remember the atmosphere. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no more important issue for Poland than border protection, like security... [[But the information belongs to you, too, and it's not...]] ...outside borders. So this has to be done quickly and efficiently. The voices of some Members in the Parliament were mocking, they said: you are unable to build a barrier during a state of emergency. Of course it takes time to build a dam. It's a big episode. We have the period we have, we are entering the winter period, the implementation of the investment in the winter period is much harder. Maybe the pressure on the border in the winter period will be a little smaller. So this simplification of the procedure, I believe, is fully necessary and justified. Without simplifying the procedure, we can die in the thicket of administrative regulations, because if they start appealing, protesting, etc., etc., we may not move on with this construction. Supervision of the construction of this barrier or barrier shall be subject to the Central Anti-corruption Office. This is the office... [[Well, that's actually a guarantee.]] It's a guarantee. Yes, Mr. Senator, this is a guarantee. It's not a guarantee to you, but... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...but it's a guarantee to us. Listen to what you're saying. Talk to the residents. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to say this, although I was going to say this in the debate, but I'm not going to...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u36	No, no, no, Mr. Senator... [[No, Mr. Marshal?]] Mr. Senator... [[Good. Thank you. Well, that's it then.]] I remind the questioner and the person who answers that we are currently dealing with the committee's report. And you have the right... There will still be questions to the government representative. I don't have a chance to say hello to Minister Wąsik because the subject is prolonged, but I will, and I will, to you, Deputy Chief. You're supposed to answer questions about what happened at the committee meeting: it was, it wasn't, we've considered, we haven't considered, and so on. [[We've been looking into it.]] Then there is a debate in which freedom of expression is full, and time is longer. Please do not engage in polemics at the moment, because you are the committee's rapporteur and you can limit yourself to laconic comments such as: we have dealt with or did not deal with it, etc. Please, the next question is remotely asked by Senator Gorgon-Komor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u37	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a brief question for the senator. Did the committee's meeting mention that the construction of this dam... Has the construction of the dam been consulted with the European Border and Coast Guard Agency, Frontex? Did you talk about it? Was it consulted and was it recommended by this agency? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u38	Well, it wasn't. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Anyway, I didn't hear it. So it's only a short time, as the Senate marshal asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u39	You're asking Senator Gawłowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u40	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask you very specifically about the article. 6 point 3 in this Act, because I do not hide that I have the impression that this is a law on lawlessness. You went so far as to initiate this project that you didn't even make a construction project. So I would like to ask: how will this wall rise? There will be no construction project, somebody will draw something on the ground with a stick and say here we put a wall like this, and here will be a wall four meters long etc. Well, this is ridiculous, Senator. I would like to ask if you pointed out at the committee meeting that the project is simply not serious.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u41	No, at the committee meeting, we pointed out that the project was very serious, and such issues were that someone with a stick or something that Senator Gawłowski was asking about was not there.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u42	Thank you very much. Senator Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, since we do not really have any influence on the fact that this investment is undertaken without any rules necessary to undertake such investments under the applicable law... Please tell me whether you requested a detailed financial analysis of this project at the committee meeting and whether you requested an assessment of the effectiveness of this investment. I take into account that a wall of 180 km long is being built at the border of over four kilometers. At this cost, we build the most expensive wall in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u44	Senator, these issues have been raised. As to effectiveness, when this particular issue was raised, an example of the land border between Greece and Turkey was shown. Building such a barrier there, such as a barrier, as if it solved the problem of illegal crossing the border on the mainland. Of course, this did not solve the problem of crossing the border at sea. So this construction is, of course, justified and necessary, and it guarantees us the security of the eastern border. As far as costs are concerned, yes, there was also a question relating to costs. It's hard to tell if it's gonna be the most expensive or not. The costs will only come out after the investment has been completed. The estimated cost is about PLN 1.5 billion, as presented at the committee meeting. Although it's hard to tell if it's gonna be... Maybe there's less, maybe there's more. Depends on the situation at the border. As a committee, we were in office. I think so, too. That it is not the costs that will determine the construction of this barrier at the border, but the situation that will occur there. And here's the situation. In fact, you can keep track of certain behaviors on the Internet at the border all the time. That this dam must be durable, solid, safe. So that's what it looks like. And it was compared to this border of Greek-Turkish, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u45	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u46	But I will return, Mr. Senator, to this article. 6. As I understand it, you can build this wall without design and without building permission. In addition, you write in the article. 4 that a representative will be a person with knowledge of construction law. I stress: knowledge, not authority. And how do you imagine that? I'm asking for safety here. This wall will stand for years. How do you want to ensure the safety of such a wall if construction laws are not respected here? How will this check be carried out? Are we supposed to take your word for it? Didn't you really think about that at the committee meeting? It's never been before. I don't remember that. It's a law of that kind. There were situations where tenders were exempted from some requirements, but there was never exemption from building law. In my opinion, this is simply against the constitution because it threatens the safety of the inhabitants. That's why there's a law to respect them. Specialities that disable other important laws may not be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u47	Thank you. There were questions of this kind. At the committee meeting, Senator Kwiatkowski asked such questions, the Minister answered. I can assure you, senator, that there is no fear that this wall, the barrier at the border, will be built in a manner contrary to or incompatible with the art of construction. Let me repeat: the procedure must be simplified because there is an urgent need to put a barrier at the border today. Unfortunately, our country cannot function properly without this barrier. [[Mr. Senator, what else is art... because you're talking about some art...]] Construction. [[And I'm talking about the law.]] Senator, I'm talking about the art of construction, not theatrical art. I don't know what art you're thinking, but I'm talking about the art of construction, that it's supposed to be done according to the art of construction. [[And I'm saying it's supposed to be legal.]] And according to the law... You're not worried, chief... [[Don't tell me...]] But I assure you, everything will be properly done there. You're trying to assure me that you're not, and I assure you that you are. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Just like in Ostrołęka.]] [[Mr. Senator...]] And with different sentences, Mr. Senator, we'll stay. [[Mr. Senator Komorowski...]] But please pay attention to your colleagues on the left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u48	No, no, guys... I am trying to ensure that the point is conducted in accordance with its title, i.e. now there are questions for the Senator of the rapporteur. Let me remind you that in four minutes we will announce a recess because we have a solemn opening moment for the exhibition dedicated to the Primate of the Millennium. So that the questioning phase and the discussion at this point will continue after a half-hour break. But now we still have time to listen to one or two questions. Senator Klich will ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u49	Mr. Senator, I would ask for a precise answer to my question, which I'm about to ask, not to beat water. In a long speech, the senator said that the reason for skipping the rules that apply in the Republic of Poland is the urgent need arising from the need to secure the eastern border. You said that without simplifying the procedure, we could die in the thick of the rules. I understand that this is the committee's position because you report on the committee's meeting. I would like to ask you, then, whether the committee has considered the fact that from the beginning of June, from the first days of June, I want to be precise, so I am saying that from the first days of June, we know that in relation to the Republic of Poland the operation was to be started and started immediately after the acquisition of this knowledge. The government knew about this and we knew it from the Belarusian opposition. We also know that within two and a half months, by mid-August, the government has done nothing to get to the serious He didn't do anything in June, he didn't do anything in July, and he didn't do anything in the first half of August. So I want to ask you, and I ask you a precise answer, whether this matter of government inaction has also been considered by the committee, and if it has not considered why.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u50	Mr. Senator, first of all, the way to ask a question and the first part of it as if it could make a mistake. Because you could ask the Minister, the representative of the government, if the construction of the bill had been initiated. But that bill wasn't there. The government is waiting for the bill to be passed, so it can't be said that we want to... What do you mean, us? We're here to... The Polish State. Please state that the Polish State wishes to build according to the rules, in accordance with the law, in this particular situation under the simplified procedure. And I don't see here... There was a motion to adopt a law without amendment. I interpret it so that the two committees at the meeting interpreted it so and accepted that, in the context of a simplified procedure... there is a need to build a fence, a barrier or a barrier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u51	Thank you very much. At this point, I'm forced to stop this interesting session. Excuse me, Minister and Chief. The rest of your questions will be after the break. I'm declaring a half-hour break. Welcome to the opening of the exhibition. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 00 to 12 minutes 31]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u52	I'm reopening the session. We are returning to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Law on the Construction of the Security of the State Border. Mr Marek Komorowski presented the committee's report on the bill just before the adjournment. He also answered the senators' questions. Would any of your senators like to ask a question to the rapporteur's senator? Senator Robert Dowhan. There you go. Senator Dowhan isn't here, is he? [[Voice from the room: There isn't. I suggest you start...]] Senator Dowhan isn't here. Senator Wojciech Necessary asks a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! During the committee's deliberations, were the information provided on who would be handling this firewall that would arise from the technical side? I'm asking because as far as we know, there will be electronic devices, modern devices, etc. Who's gonna serve this? Who's gonna service it? Was there any indication of the annual cost of maintaining this barrier? Did you just... Because we will have neither knowledge of this nor influence how the contractors will be selected. Is it settled yet? Was anything said at the committee meeting about this, not about the construction itself, but about the functioning of this barrier in the future? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u54	Thank you. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u55	It wasn't.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u56	Thank you, Senator. You're Senator Dowhan, right? [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is.]] [[Yes, I am.]] There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. So far, the Border Guard has protected our borders, since there are gangs of smugglers, when people go back and forth through the forest, through the Bajora, and we meet them on the roads in the middle of the country, on my west border, where they reach from the east side? That's my first question. And the other. You said this construction was to be durable, solid, safe. This could take an example from the U.S. because the wall was stopped there, and maybe the wall was ready to be pulled down here? The Berlin Wall is down. He could be like that, he'd be closer, but the Berlin Wall is gone.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u58	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u59	To the first and second questions: there was no such discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u60	Thank you. There are no more questions for the senator... Oh, there's the senator. Please, Senator Durlak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u61	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, the most important question, perhaps, was there a discussion about the deadline for implementing this investment, so much needed to secure the border and ensure security for Poles? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u62	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u63	There was a discussion about this, well, maybe not too long, but there was a discussion about the deadline. We know that it is the autumn period, it will be autumn-winter in a moment, and the investment in the spring, summer, and it is much harder in the winter period. There was information that it was not that the wall would rise as if from day to day, there was no technical possibility that it would arise at this moment. It's gonna take a while to build a wall. It will be an engineering design of 5.5 m high and 1 m high, maybe over 1 m in the ground. It takes time. I think the minister will answer in detail, but I'm sure it's safe to say that this wall won't be built within a month. This construction is a process that must take some time. I'm thinking, though. And so it was presented. The fact that the start of this construction will be a signal for the Belarusian side as well as for others, also for our partners from the European Union, that Poland is not passive, has begun this construction and is implementing it. The very beginning of construction can cause the worsening of this situation, which is now at the border, to decrease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u64	Thank you. Senator Dowhan, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u65	One more question, technical. In today's technology, haven't the possibilities of setting up cameras, motion detectors, or other modern methods that... Well, building a wall... It looks a little like building defense walls in the Middle Ages.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u66	Mr. Senator, all those technical safeguards you're talking about, i.e. monitoring and detection systems, perimetric protection systems, are used, but they have proved insufficient for today. After we build this dam, we're gonna be... This was the subject of a committee meeting. It's not gonna be like we're gonna build a firewall, a barrier, and then we're gonna leave the border, and that's the only barrier that's gonna be standing there. There will still be services, there will still be perimetric devices, and this dam will prevent these direct, aggressive, illegal actions, because we are talking about illegal, crossing the border. One must be connected to the other That's how it was presented at the committee meeting, and that's how I understand it. This is a coherent action. In this exceptional situation, as the Belarusian border services do not perform, do not exercise their competence in border protection, such action is necessary. Without it, Poland simply cannot cope with the situation. It is our duty to ensure that the Polish border is stable.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u67	Senator Jackowski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I will say at the outset that I am in favour of building this wall so that no one has any doubts about it. Well, there were people who were asking questions to the senator... My question is as follows, it is of a technical nature. I'm interested in how to acquire real estate for the construction of this installation, let's call it that. As I understand it, there will be a law on expropriation for public purposes. Yes? This is where it wasn't answered. Is this gonna happen on these terms? That's my first question. My second question concerns service. It may turn out that access to this installation will run through someone else's land. Will this service be assumed by law, or will there be a contract signed? What's it gonna be like? This is a huge problem, because this installation will be very long and such situations can be very much. And the third question. As the senator answered my first question, I was concerned... I had the idea that this wall would be, I would say, a continuous installation of several dozen or several hundred kilometers long. Mr. Senator mentioned that he would only be in those places where there's a land border. But if this is a water dam, then on the Polish side she has a shore and there is a wall... Is he gonna take a break, or is it gonna be a continuous installation? I would like to know more about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u69	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u70	Mr. Senator, maybe my speech wasn't exactly accurate. I think the question of the continuity of this fence, the barrier, the barrier... The Minister will answer here. In terms of expropriation, servitude, in accordance with Article. The 11th Bill... It's exactly what we're... it's defined in the article. 11 laws, but there was no detailed discussion on this at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u71	Senator Dowhan. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u72	One last question, Mr. Marshal. [[Voice from the room: We hope.]] You can see in the television broadcasts that the Border Guard is armed. Is that a gun? It also has helmets and bulletproof vests. In what case can he use a gun? 'Cause if he's wearing it, I don't think it's just for image needs. Where weapons can be used when it comes to the Border Guard and protecting our border.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u73	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u74	The question goes beyond the law. There was no discussion about this.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u75	Senator Aleksander Pociej. [[Voice from the room: Remotely, remotely.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u76	That's right, remotely. Thank you, thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have one question. Mr. Senator, Belarus is a very undemocratic country at the moment, and many people are being persecuted there. But answer me... If the situation gets worse there and the Belarusians who do not have the legal option to leave, they will want to flee this country, after all, this wall will also stop people to whom it is our duty to grant asylum. How would you relate to this case? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u77	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u78	Mr. Senator, this is a human rights issue, what you've raised, and this is not the subject of this bill. There was no discussion about it. But I can say And I'm as sure as I am, because that's what you asked me. That this issue will be resolved or attempted to resolve the diplomatic services of the State.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u79	Thank you. Senator Poor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I just want to ask you something about the last question. Because the senator said that it was only about those kind of environmental concerns, and as far as I know, the Ombudsman's opinion was mainly about human rights standards, i.e. freedom of movement, choice of place of residence, residence, and Senator Ujazdowski also asked about this. The question of obtaining information. Was this part of the opinion presented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u81	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u82	I mean, to answer precisely... I do not know whether it was the opinion of the Ombudsman or of the Ombudsman's Office, first of all 'Cause I can't remember right now whether there was an attorney's signature or an office employee. They were presented, as you say, some doubts... But I'm gonna say I'm having second thoughts. as regards these doubts, the Ombudsman's Office. And in that opinion... I really have serious doubts about these concerns of the Ombudsman's office... [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u83	Thank you very much. I still have a question for you. [[Please.]] What limits are foreseen in this 200-metre lane? Are these the limits that are foreseen in the Emergency Act or any other?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u84	There was no discussion about it. [[Thank you...]] It wasn't an object... [[Well, it's the subject of the bill, but I understand there was no discussion.]] No, but it's not the subject of the fact that if it's necessary... And that's what we were talking about. And the Minister said that... he also informed the High Commission that, without this amendment of this law to 15 m, such restrictions could be introduced, and this law, because the situation at the border is extraordinary and dynamic, so that it is not dramatic and tragic, I hope it is not! It is possible to introduce the possibility in the belt no wider than 200 m, in time for the implementation of the investment, so that this dam can be implemented, the barrier can be realized. But about what the means are, whether they're supposed to be one or the other, there was no discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u85	Thank you very much. There are no more questions. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. [[Thank you very much.]] The draft law was introduced as a matter of urgency. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. I see Minister Maciej Wąsik. Do you wish to speak on the bill? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Thank you very much for the opportunity to present a bill from the government aimed at securing Poland and the European Union from the east against the migratory pressure caused by the Aleksandra Lukashenka regime. Thank you very much to Senator Komorowski for reporting the meeting and answering a lot of questions. He realizes that some of the questions he couldn't have asked. I will try, by presenting this bill, to answer also some of the questions asked by your senators. And I would like to say this: the first thing I would like to say is to exclude the transparency of access to public information. I know it's a subject that, of course, arouses emotions, controversies. I would like to stress another very important thing: the exclusion of transparency will only apply to technical issues, of course because of the security of the state. Because why give to people who are on the other side of the border, data on where the cameras are located, how the perimetric installation runs, how the detectors are set up, motion detectors, how deep the foundation is located, etc. These things are of course important for some of your senators who are interested in building law, but of course they are not important from the point of view of the transparency of the state. All the other things. All expenses, all documentation that can be presented... We will make sure that it is presented in a transparent manner, even without a question. We're going to want this construction process to be as transparent as possible. And here I would like to reassure the senators and Senator Ujazdowski. Unfortunately, he doesn't, but he asked a question about disabling the transparency of access to public information. I would also like to reassure you that, of course, we exclude certain provisions that make it impossible for us to put up this barrier, because that is a better word. In a fast way. Indeed, we exclude regulations to limit the construction process, the process of preparing the construction investment. The point is that it does not last for five years, as the process of preparing from scratch, for example, road investments or other types of investments, because the whole administrative law and construction law makes this process longer. He is too long in the Polish legal system. As a government I hope that Parliament too We will do everything we can to shorten these processes. In this case, This is an exordinary situation. State security requires this type of weight. Because we're paying attention to some values here, aren't we? What's more important Is it the strict application of the building law or the security of the state? We choose state security and European security, ladies and gentlemen. Because I would like to point out that we are really a transit country for most of these people. The purpose of these people, who are currently in Belarus and who are knocking at the gates of the European Union, is Germany. And they'll be the ones in trouble. We help our German partners maintain a certain security of migration policy. We are helping because we are a loyal member of the European Union... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...and we realize that we have a commitment. No patting on the back, just tough politics, hard action shows who's loyal, who's disloyal. I would also like to reassure those of you who are concerned about building laws. Of course, there will be post-executive documentation. We exclude building laws, but we do not exclude regulations concerning workers, regarding safety. Safety and safety regulations at the construction site will, of course, apply. I'm sure the companies that will build will be professional. I don't know their names. I know one thing: Border Guards do reconnaissance, analyzes, makes estimates, prepares. I am convinced that as soon as the law enters into force, the Head of the Border Guard will appoint his representative, for accepting the Minister of Home Affairs, who will immediately proceed to specific work and will inform the public, but also the government at the invitation of the Senate will appear here and present information, if necessary, on the progress of the trial. I am convinced that, after some time, such a request from the Senate will be, and we will be able to come here and present you with reliable information, transparent information, as transparent as possible. Mr Marshal, you have already said a lot of things to the rapporteur, and I thank him once again. This discussion was indeed turbulent, including on my part. If I've offended anyone in the committee hearing, I'm sorry, but this case is emotional. Because security is a fundamental issue for Poland and Poles, for Poles, for the whole of our country. I am convinced that the world's, but also European, experiences on the latest migratory waves show that this is an effective tool in border protection, that it is an effective tool in deterring, taming migratory waves. Let us recall the year 2015 when 1 million people entered Europe by the southern route, namely Italy, Spain, but also Hungary. The Hungarians have built appropriate barriers that have led to such a situation that they have a pressure at the border, but do not have a storm at the border. They have a problem with illegal migration because they do, she won't disappear, but they're doing a lot better with it. I believe that Minister Klich, former Minister of National Defence, asked what we had done with the information we had so far. I'd like to reassure you that the government didn't put pears in ashes. Already in August, in July, there were first troops on the border, but we didn't announce it because there was no need. As early as July, the army put the first dams at the border. And I would like to assure you, I would like to say with all my determination that all these dams would have been effective if it had not been for the Belarusian side. Ladies and gentlemen, a year ago, regardless of the political situation, our Border Guard had Belarusian bordermen on the other side of the border, who, together with our Border Guard, cared for the security of the border, exchanged information, received calls. When the crisis started, actually caused by Lukashenka, the decisions of Lukashenka as a reaction to the sanctions imposed after the fraudulent presidential elections, we have no doubt about it. In the beginning, telephones were no longer received by Belarusian bordermen. Later, when the pressure on the Lithuanian border began and we began to strengthen the Polish border, our Border Guard noted with astonishment that Belarusians instead of cooperating in border protection And they even got money from the European Union to strengthen the border, and I'll talk about that in a minute. They're starting to show illegal migrants the best way through. By the time he showed up at most of the border, 140 kilometers, a fence put up by the military... Under normal conditions, it would be unpassable, it would be an effective dam. But under normal conditions. What did it turn out to be? That Belarusian services not only provide tools for cutting this, ladders, various balls, not balls, yet inspire this type of action to be stormed on the Polish border. And our decisions must be quick and appropriate to the situation. We are aware that beyond our eastern border we have an unstable dictator whose decisions can be different within a few days, the dictator behind whom Vladimir Putin stands. We need to find a way to secure the rights of Polish citizens. I am also convinced that the Ombudsman thinks about the rights of Polish citizens, I am convinced of that. To those countries who are concerned about ecological issues, about animals, I would like to say one thing: imagine that on the Belarusian side, 800 m from the border is called. Sistema, or fence. There's a fence that was built some years ago and it doesn't have to pass for animals. There's no going through for the animals. That thing happened a long time ago. Belarusians never cared about that. I would like to assure you that in the team that will advise, advise and work diligently, also supervise this investment, there will be a representative of the Ministry of Environment who will certainly influence such decisions. And I realize that this investment should be made so that the damage in certain areas is as small as possible. But the main area we must defend is the security of Poland. That's the most important thing. And we have to weigh different values here. For me, human life, in particular our citizens, their safety is paramount. And I am convinced that the High House shares my view. [[Applause]] That's why I'm so happy... I would like to ask all the senators who attended the committee's meetings, who gave their opinion on this bill... The government very much welcomed the proposal to adopt this law without amendments. I hope that today or in the near future, the High House will sustain this decision of the committee. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would be happy to answer all the specific questions of your senators.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u87	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. I'll keep you informed. And I'm asking the Minister for brief answers, too, okay? To... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: With the greatest pleasure, Mr. Marshal.]] Good. The first question is me. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: It is my pleasure, Mr. Marshal.]] Thank you. Well, we'll see. The border with Belarus is 418 km. Please tell me what is the length of this border where the mentioned type of barrier, the wall will not be able to be erected. I'm asking about the swamp because there are swampy areas, among others. in the vicinity of the Białowieża Forest, but not only. And there are rivers, well, among others. Bug, but not only that. How many... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: And yet there are lakes, I will give you a hint, Mr. Marshal.]] Come on, lakes. So how long is this wall gonna be, and what part of it isn't gonna be on?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u88	Mr. Marshal, I'll try to answer briefly. I think so. And so is my most up-to-date knowledge of this subject. That dam... I'm gonna try to use that word because it's not just something that stands by the line of the border, it's also a whole system of towers, cameras, perymmetry. So this is a dam that's going to be 5.5 meters high. This is the current plan, 5.5 m height And it's going to be at almost 200 km of the border. Only that I would like to point out that on a stable ground it will be heavier, and on a more swampy ground, it will be a much lighter structure. That's all I can say for today, Mr. Marshal. I hope I've satisfied your need for knowledge.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u89	Thank you very much. Senator Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, well, I'm asking a question that I didn't get an answer to earlier, which is... Because we don't know anything about who's gonna build this dam, and how is that gonna happen, I have a question: who's gonna supervise it in a technical sense? Who's gonna... is this company that's gonna build it, or someone else, or the military, or the Border Guard?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u91	Border Guard, Mr. Senator. [[And there's gonna be funds for that? Will there be the right skills? I'm sure there'll be some electronic equipment, etc...]] Yeah, the Border Guard has that kind of competence. Part of the border is already protected perimetrically, part of Ukraine. This is a very interesting tool. Border Guard already has knowledge, experience, know-how in this area. He's using it very well. I think that the relevant Senate committee, if it ever asked for a visit to such a centre, would certainly be satisfied with both technical and other border guards who...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u92	I'm just gonna finish this. I'm gonna use my time. Minister, it is often the case that when we try to move some money, budget or other, e.g. For the extension of hospitals, we get the question: who do you want to take? I'd like to know where the money's coming from.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u93	First of all, we will take them away from the Belarusians. We'll cut them off from the supply of money from illegal immigrants. They make a lot of money, really. [[But...]] The Belarusian regime, Mr. Senator, is making huge money out of these... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u94	Mr. Senator, thank you very much. [[But that's a joke answer.]] There's no discussion in this part. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I, of course, am in favour of this bill, but I will raise a few issues relating to its content. Aren't you limiting your possible subsequent action? Namely in the article. 2 (2) 1 is a reference to the Law on the Protection of the State Border, but only in the matter of the Border Belt. Here's the reference to the article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1th National Border Act. As a result, we narrow down the possibility of placing this structure. In my opinion, an article should also be mentioned here. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, that's going beyond the border belt. I don't think all the barrier-related equipment is gonna fit into 15 meters. But it's a matter of interpretation. And one more thing, which is related to the actions that I think should accompany the construction of this dam. After all, those miserable people who... Actually, it's cannon meat. These are the people who are brought here unconsciously, pushed across the border by the Belarusians. They came from somewhere. Most of them are transported by air. Simple question: did we ban Belarusian airlines from flying with these people over our territory? Little is it: did we speak to the Ukrainians, finally our friends, to do the same in their territory? If they want to come here, if they're to be transported, it's only through Russia.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u96	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u97	I'm answering the senator's first question. It seems to me, however, that this provision is wider, as some accompanying devices are designed, for the time being, in their heads, at some distance from the border. It seems that your senator's doubts are unreasonable. Of course, we will still examine this issue, but I am convinced that there is no such problem. Belarusian lines are already banned from flights to the European Union, the European Union, under sanctions. That's what I'd like to stress. This is one of the reasons why Alexander Lukashenka took the steps he had taken. We're gonna take... We're not the only ones. The diplomacy of many European countries and the European Union is taking steps to limit the access of different airlines to Belarus. Recently there was correspondence between the German Minister of Interior and Mariusz Kaminski, correspondence both ways. Both gentlemen agreed that they would support the ban on entry into the European Union of those lines which are involved in the process of bringing illegal immigrants to Minsk. Let these lines choose whether it is more economical to fly to Europe, big and rich, or Minsk. I am convinced that these actions, taken together with our partners, will soon have the desired effect. But they're not enough. Senator, you realize we're already seeing flights from Iraq to Moscow. We can already see that traveling from Moscow to Minsk costs $800. That's the price list on the forums. We realize that this is going to grow, just like the pressure water is looking for every possible hole to break through. The ideas of gangs who actually export these illegal migrants to the European Union together with the Lukashenka regime are remarkable. It should be emphasized that the Polish Police, together with the Border Guard, conducts very intensive activities concerning these gangs, not only illegal immigration, but also those gangs that organize this illegal migration, these gangsters. Many of them, if not most, people who once emigrated to Germany, are many Chechens, people of different nations of the former Soviet Union, as well as people from Arab countries who have the right to stay in Germany, are a large part of them. There are also other nationalities, this range of nationalities is very wide, we keep Romanians, Lithuanians, Czechs, Poles, Tajiks. Recently we even stopped Finn, who in his van drove 40 people most likely from Lithuania. The police are conducting a procedure in this direction to determine all these things so that all these threads can be joined together. These are difficult procedures and very often requiring international assistance. But we also care about punishing not only the hands, but also the head. Maybe I've been wide-eyed. I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, I was to be brief.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u98	Thank you. Mr. Senator Borowski... [[I'd like to ask you an additional question... but it's in the next series.]] There's a lot of questions, I'll write you down again. Mr. Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u99	I have two questions. First. How long will it take to build this dam? Two. Are there any concrete measures currently being taken, i.e. are there requests to the European Commission for enlargement, increased sanctions against Belarus? I believe that Lukashenka understands only the language of force, and if these sanctions could be extended, and there are many indications that they could, the Polish government should make such a request. So the question is, are there any such conclusions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u100	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u101	Mr. Marshal, I don't agree with you very often, but I agree with you here, especially when it comes to the second question. I have absolutely the same opinion, only a tough policy towards Lukashenka can be effective. That's why we have this tough policy. Of course, we are talking in the internal affairs ministers' forum, and I can be responsible for the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration on further sanctions imposed either on Belarus or on its partners. And here I partially replied to Senator Czerwinski. So that I agree with the marshal. It's just a tough policy, of course. One of the elements of this tough policy is sealing the border and that is what we are talking about today. As far as time is concerned, I'm not able to answer that question, Mr. Marshal, I just wouldn't want to shoot it. I have my own idea, but it's based... Well, that's an idea. I can't answer today. I would like to say that if the chief's representative signs the first contracts, he will certainly inform you of the expected time of implementation of this project. We're trying to get started as soon as possible to finish. This law is therefore urgent and we want to adopt it without amendment. [[I'll ask if you don't mind, Mr. Marshal. Okay?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u102	Mr. Senator, in a minute. [[I'd like to ask. Well, I asked you a question and...]] You didn't get the answer. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u103	I didn't get it, or maybe the minister didn't fully understand me. I don't mean whether there are any talks between ministers or officials, etc. My question was whether the Polish Government specifically addressed the European Commission with a package of proposals to extend sanctions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u104	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u105	Mr. Marshal, I will answer on behalf of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. [[Voice from the hall: More like on behalf of the government, Minister.]] We are seeking to extend sanctions to include lines that transport illegal migrants to Belarus. We are also discussing other potential actions that I am not authorized to report to the High House. Thank you. [[Sure. So the government didn't make it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u106	Thank you. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[And is it true that... because I read that building this dam...]] No, Mr. Senator. One minute. [[It's about building this dam, about how it could last two years.]] Mr. Senator, in a minute. I'm putting you on the list. Senator Łyczak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u107	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I asked a question about possible financial assistance from the European Union. I'd like you to confirm or explain this matter that I'm asking you about. And then there's the second line. Everyone in this room emphasizes how dangerous the situation on our eastern border is heading in. We're in NATO block, so I'd like to ask if it's planning to... Are there any conversations to include soldiers from other countries to help protect the border? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u108	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u109	Mr Senator, we have indeed prepared proposals for 2 EU funds. The first is the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund, the FAMI Fund. We applied for EUR 10.5 million. We want the Union to finance the stay of this increased number of migrants who are staying in our camps. But we have also asked the Integrated Border Management Fund for more than EUR 200 million. We want to get funding for both the investment we are talking about and the special equipment for our officers. This is, as I count well, about 218 million euros. Unfortunately, we don't expect to get 100%. financing. As I'm sure the senator has pointed out, the President of the European Commission has stated that the Commission will not finance the construction of dams. Indeed, there have been no such cases so far that such dams are funded by the European Union and in Europe they are numerous. Well, there's one dam funded in part by the Union, which is the Belarusian sistema. The Union has provided its money for this purpose. [[Thank you...]] [[Second question.]] [[Oh, second question. Please.]] [[NATO.]] NATO. There's no need for that right now. I will remind you that NATO troops are stationed in our territory, are here and are looking at the border urgently. Our NATO partners know what it looks like. Nevertheless, we manage, operate with Border Guard and the Polish Army. At the moment there are several thousand soldiers at the border, there will be 10,000 soldiers of the Polish Army in a moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u110	Thank you very much. Senator Ujazdowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u111	Minister, two questions. Firstly, I would like to be clear why this provision excluding the entire investment from the right to public information is so harshly formulated that it excludes the right to access public information even after the construction of the investment. You suggested that the right to information would interfere with the investment itself Although it is never absolute, different exemptions are made for reasons of public security But this access will not be even after the investment has been built. That's the first line. Secondly, you're focused. And you're right. On blocking illegal migration. I would like to ask how many legal applications, asylum applications, have been dealt with in the last three months. It is about the requests of people crossing the Belarusian-Polish border.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u112	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u113	I'm answering the first question. I disagree with the senator. It's not a very widely formulated recipe, it's narrow. I already mentioned it when I presented the bill. I think that's a narrow range of information. This concerns the design, the security, the technical parameters of the barrier. This does not apply to costs, contracts, contractors or other elements. I assure you, senator, we will want to do everything as transparently as possible and present it to the public, because it is in our interest that this process should be transparent. And we exclude it from public information so as not to put our opponents on such information regarding the protection of the state, our citizens. Well, we can't exactly show you all the places where there's gonna be detectors or thermal cameras. This is an element of the barrier and we do not want to show it to the Belarusians. They're gonna figure out this system, recognize it, it's obvious, but we don't want to give them that kind of information. Why should we give them information about the depth and way of laying the foundations or where the dam will be lighter, built of such materials or other materials? We don't see the need. And it's only the state's security issues that decide that. Once again, I would like to assure you that we will be as transparent as possible when it comes to the construction process itself, about demonstrating costs, showing contracts, showing other issues. We will, of course, present this information to the Senate if necessary. The second question was... Oh, it's about the number of people left... [[I'm counting my conclusions.]] Yeah, yeah. Senator, I'll answer that question in writing, if you don't mind. Let me just say this: the process of examining an application is at least six months in my opinion, especially for people who do not have documents. At first, an identity must be identified, which is extremely difficult in some situations. The Afghan State does not actually function at the moment, so how to verify the identity of the person concerned in cooperation with the Afghan services? It seems to me that the proposals under consideration are small, the more that this process began on such a larger scale in August, one can say. I can tell you that in 2 months, July and August, we had 400 asylum refusals in Poland at the Foreigners' Office and 400 readmissions. [[Talking in the O.R.]] About all the events in Poland, all of them, Mr... [[I'm asking about that line.]] And about that limit, we're gonna answer in writing so I don't have to give you a number here that I'm not sure about. [[Thank you very much...]] [[Mr. Marshal, I'm just trying to make it clear that this is about information about the applications accepted, because...]] How many proposals have we accepted? [[How much did we take...]] And how much did we take and not how much did we consider? [[How much have you considered as well, but...]] Let me put it this way: if for 1 thousand 700 people about 40% it has submitted such requests, it can be calculated that about 700 applications have been submitted. [[About this border?]] Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u114	But I understand that the Minister will take that into account in writing. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: I am looking at the general here. He nods his head, which is more or less so.]] Thank you very much. Senator Blanket, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you very much for this statement. Of course, but you have to remind them We are primarily responsible for ensuring the safety of Poles as a government and parliament. Minister, a question. Please tell me: how long could the construction of this type of installation last if it were not for the special procedure provided for the construction of this dam by the law that we are working on if the tendering procedure had been carried out and if there had been all other subsequent appeals, sometimes ending until the decision of the court, by judgment of the court? How long would it last over the years? And I'd like to ask you something, Minister. We have recently heard of how aggressive these groups that cross the border or try to cross the border illegally. Our bordermen were wounded. I'd like to ask what their health is, because it's very disturbing. I know one was hurt in the face, hit with a rock in the face, and the other was hit by a branch. So that I would like to ask about the health of our bordermen. And above all, I thank the Polish Border Guard very much for doing everything to ensure our safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u116	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u117	Senator, thank you so much for this question. I'll be more specific: it was the soldiers who were wounded, if I remember correctly, yesterday or the day before yesterday. [[The day before yesterday.]] They were taken to the hospital, treated and left the hospital. Their condition does not threaten life or health, they do not need to be hospitalized. So I want to calm the senator down here. Indeed, these groups are aggressive. Today we received information that these people destroyed, dissatisfied with the fact that they were stopped for control, the vehicle they were moving. Well, unfortunately, in part these people are deceived by Lukashenka, and yet they are incredibly inspired to act aggressively. They're very vulnerable to all kinds of provocations. In fact, there were situations in Podlasie called "Euphemistic" To demand that houses be allowed in a categoric manner. Fortunately, there are a lot of troops in Podlasie right now, police officers, Border Guards, and we're trying to avoid these kinds of threats. [[And that second question about how long it would take.]] Oh, of course, that's the basic thing. I'll say this: to get a building permit, you'd have to get the land rights in full. The land at the border partly belongs to the State Treasury, partly to the local government, partly private, and therefore a buy-back process should be carried out first. It would be an investment process later, it would be necessary to lead to a building permit, to wait for a decision on the construction conditions. It's all about a 200-mile belt... and I think it would take 10 years, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u118	Mr. Senator Borowski... [[Thank you. That's what I'm talking about.]] No, Senator Czerwinski... Oh, Senator Swede. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u119	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, the law on the construction of state border security is a very important law. I, too, declare full support. I would like to join you in your wishes, Marshal Maria Blanket, for all the services that serve there at the border. There's one thing I'd like to ask you. In the explanatory memorandum to the Act, we have information that between 1 January 2021 and 29 September the Border Guard prevented 9,000 287 attempts to cross the border. Foreigners mostly crossing the state border were, according to the explanatory memorandum, citizens of Iraq, Afghanistan, Syria, Russia, Somalia, Tajikistan, Iran and Turkey, i.e. de facto imported by the Lukashenka regime. I ask in the context of the doubts expressed to the Senator of the rapporteur that there may be people there who need asylum. Were the people detained in Belarus? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u120	No, there were no Belarusians. I'd like to calm down the Senate. And I was talking about it in the last debate. And to say that Poland has adopted over the last year 10 000 Belarusians who thought that their lives should not be related to Belarus, because they are threatened after the presidential election. We sheltered them, sheltered them, protected them. In some situations, these people are indeed under the protection of Polish services, of course I will not talk more about it. This dam will in no way affect our acceptance of Belarusians. If necessary, our Belarusian friends will be helped accordingly. We have a very flexible visa policy for them, there are humanitarian visas. They can really come to Poland without any obstacles. There are border crossings, consulates, all kinds of situations... They can also enter through transit. I don't see the slightest problem. I would like to stress that Poles really help those who need it. We helped Afghans who fled Kabul from the Taliban, who were in real danger, torture, death, persecution, prison for political reasons. We've given them the right kind of help. We accepted under the Polish roof, fed, clothed. They have something to eat, they have something to drink. Their kids are already going to school if, of course, their parents want to, because... well, some people want to go on. There you go, it's their will, they're free people. But that's the kind of help we provide. Those who want asylum in Poland shall submit applications and these applications shall be dealt with immediately. But we're the ones who sent the planes to get these people. We sent them. The Polish state worked as it should.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u121	Senator Mariusz Gromek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u122	Minister, I would like to thank you very much for all the work that you have done so far. It so happens that most of the Polish-Belarusian border is also the border of my constituency. I'm in constant contact with the residents. The decision to introduce a state of emergency was very positive and was expected, as was the declaration of action towards the construction of a permanent barrier. This is what the residents are waiting for, and they hope that this dam will be erected as soon as possible. By the way, I'd like to ask you two questions. Here we have a question about Frontex, about how we are judged. Well, there's been a charge of some tardiness... Was there a visit from a representative of Frontex? How have our services been assessed by Frontex? That's the first question. I'd also like to know... You may have analysed the situation in other countries where a similar dam was created. What happened later at the borders there? Have there been cases of nomads and such dramas as before? Can we hope that, after building such a barrier, what is now happening at the Polish-Belarusian border will cease and we will not witness such dramas, when the Belarusian services, as reported by the media, force those immigrants who are on their territory, legally force them to force our Polish border... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u123	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u124	Thank you very much, Senator. I am aware that you are very interested in this subject, because you are very active in this area and support the Border Guard's activities, for which I thank you very much. Mr. Senator, here's what I'm gonna say. The Head of Frontex was at the border, visited both the border and the work of our Border Guard and was very impressed by these activities. Frontex is not a large institution, it is not yet a European border guard, not yet. We work with the agency, even though we worked very closely together in readmission. Frontex officers are at our border crossing points, watching the situation, but it must be said that Frontex has 1 000 300 people across Europe and the Polish Border Guard has 16 000. Well, compare your strength. The mission of Frontex in Lithuania is 60 officers, I repeat, 60 officers. I will remind you that there are more than 2 000 border guards on our border with Belarus at the moment. Probably in a minute, it'll be 10,000 soldiers and about 1,500 police officers. I want you to assess these forces. But with Frontex, we work together, for example, with the readmission of those who have not obtained asylum. Frontex cooperates with a number of border guards here, jointly readmiting those who have not obtained their right of residence, exporting their own aircraft to their home countries. So that we value this cooperation. In many countries, including European ones, such dams have been built. I've been checking it out before you came here and in the world on almost all continents of this type of dams are, from South America to the famous United States wall. Mexico. In Europe, these dams appeared especially after the migration crisis, but they were also earlier. They are in Spain, they are in Bulgaria, they are in Greece, they are in Hungary, they are in Austria, i.e. even between Schengen countries Of course, different types cannot be compared. And wherever they appear, they're helping border services enforce rules prohibiting border crossings in an illegal manner. And that's what's gonna happen here. Well, there are no devices that are perfect. We're aware of that. And it will always be possible to make a very large ladder to overcome such a wall. But if we build it the way we want it to. With motion sensors, motion detection, thermal imaging, high-speed electronic handling This tool will be extremely effective and will protect us from such a crisis as it was in Hungary in 2015, i.e. from storming the border. Single crossings Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, No, no, no, no, And a lot of control over illegal traffic. Always and quickly we will be able to react where there is no natural border in the form of, for example, a river. Well, that's the way it is. on the Serbian-Hungarian border, it is a long border, or a Serbian-Croatian border. The dams are where the ground is, and where the rivers are guarding, the rivers are helping border services to maintain order at the border. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u125	Thank you. I mistook the name of Senator Mariusz Gromka... I said Thunderbolt. Excuse me. [[It's okay, Mr. Marshal.]] Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! But I'll go back to the previous question. I'm talking about the Ukrainian issue. Are the Ukrainians involved in solving this European problem, for example because they aspire to the European Union? They could at least do so in terms of banning flights of those lines that simply transport these unfortunate people from the Middle East or from Africa to Belarus. That's the first line. And the second is that if we put this fence directly on the border with Belarus, nothing will change, there will be trials, perhaps less coordinated, crossing the border in other places and until we are asked to use the border between Poland and Ukraine. For example, for this reason it would be worth working more closely now. And the second question, as if new, fresh. Namely, I see the commitment of the Minister, well, we all appreciate it, but we will not build a barrier like those that are between the rest of the world, a barrier against the common movement. We will build a barrier before the second frontier service, which has good knowledge of the terrain, comparable to ours, has technical capabilities. They organize it, they point out to these people where to strike, how to strike, what to strike, and how to provide tools. Minister, I'd ask because it's not really a question to consider. We will not only scare away, but also, but we will just sort of fight another state service, because they are officers of another state. Incidentally, I do not know whether formal criminal proceedings have been initiated against officers who organize these metastases there, I am talking about Belarusian officers. It is not only those who carry these people in our territory, but also those who organize this operation, including the supreme authorities. Is formal proceedings initiated?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u127	Mr. Senator, I'm pretty sure I don't want to prejudice, but I'm pretty sure the Attorney General has started this kind of proceedings, and there's a case, if I recall correctly, at the Regional Attorney's Office in Bialystok. If you don't mind, I'll check it out after the meeting and give you the information. Let me say this: Ukraine cooperates loyally with us and if we catch any migrant who crossed the Ukrainian-Polish border illegally, we hand it over to the Ukrainian services who accept it. They haven't shut down flights over their territory for Belarusian services, that's my knowledge. Of course, it's an idea, it's a direction, and I'm sure our diplomacy should take care of it. In the coordination team, I'm going to pass on this kind of Senator's expectations, this idea, so that we can quickly start operations that are hindering... They are part of what we want to do with the Germans, which is to impose sanctions on those lines that transport migrants to Minsk. Nevertheless, of course, it will be easy for Ukraine to pass through Russia, so that I pay attention. I would like to say that if the Ukrainian direction is the dominant direction after building a barrier on the Belarusian border section, we will build I think it's gonna be a government decision. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ on the Ukrainian border. I would like to stress that part of the Ukrainian border is already If I remember correctly, in the Bieszczadzki Border Guard Department With a perimetry that greatly improves the operation of the Border Guard, it actually gives such a cross-cutting picture of the border, each crossing is recorded, immediately appropriate locating cameras show it. These are really very interesting devices and of course this is also a solution besides the physical barrier, this very well set perymmetry. The more perimetry, the better. In the Belarusian section we planned it for 115 km, where it can be used, outside the forest, because in forest conditions the effectiveness is much, much lower. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u128	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I will immediately repeat what I said earlier, that of course I am in favour of increasing the security and construction of this border, while I have questions with which owners and users of real estate located near the planned investment, the planned partition, come to me. Well, Minister, reading yourself literally in the article. 10 and 11 of the Act, it can be said that there is, in principle, no territorial scope in which a restriction on the use of ownership under the voivodeship's decision may be established and expropriation may be carried out, or service may be established. Because it's not exactly a defined area, it's not clear what area it is. This includes, in fact, it can be interpreted that it will apply to many thousands of properties that potentially As I say, literally reading right now... I would therefore ask the Minister to clarify how this is to be understood, let's call it, area-based or territorial action of these provisions. And that's my first question. I mean. whether it concerns 200 m, whether it concerns a border belt, or 15 km from the border... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Meters, not kilometers. The border strip is 15 meters, Mr. Senator.]] This border belt, I'm sorry. It's approx. 15 km... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: This is the second...]] ...or the municipalities that are in the border belt, because then it may include an area even further from the state border. And that's the first question. And the second thing is, how are these actual expropriations going to look? Because these are some of the first steps that will be taken in implementing this wall. Whether this will take place in the negotiation procedure, i.e. that the investor's representative comes to the owner of the property and negotiations are ongoing Will it be on the basis of a decision? What's it gonna look like? And what will it be like to establish a servantship? Because this wall, in order to operate it, maintain it, etc., will have to be reached, so it's probably gonna take a lot of... I'm also saying this as a person who knows a little about real estate. It's not a simple procedure. So how does the government imagine the solution to this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u130	I'll try, Senator, to make my answer shorter than your question. Let me put it this way: the whole article. 11 speaks of this ground situation, i.e. the physical dam will be in the lane of the border road, i.e. not more than 15 m from the line of the border. This is the first thing. We'll try to keep her as close to the border as possible. Second thing: the land of the border road belt belongs to the State Treasury, to local governments and in many cases to private individuals. There are 2 farms there, as I have just consulted with General Gorzkowska, 2 farms, which may involve expropriation with buildings. In other cases, the expropriation will concern agricultural land or unused land. In return, they are either entitled to an adequate 50% increase. area of compensation elsewhere, on a negotiated basis I don't know what the voivodship or any other state administration or post office that manages real estate will have. It's either 150%. valuation-related values. Well, the expert will come, will appreciate it. Of course, it doesn't stop the investment. As in the case of roads, the expert will carry out the valuation. We give 50% more than it's worth, so that all of these people are happy. However, we are aware that some investments may be in the belt up to 200 m, up to a maximum of 200 m. And that's where we're gonna spot-buy or negotiate other ways with the property owners to make amends. The voivode will be responsible for this... 'Cause, you know, like... You're gonna have to put up a tower so there's cameras or electronic transmitters. I repeat, this dam is to be loaded with electronics. The more electronics, the less human strength it takes to prevent it from going through. It seems that these laws that are currently in force are beneficial to property owners and that the number of expropriations will be less than it seems at first glance. The voivode will be responsible for this process, who will certainly be able to handle this undertaking. I can't say any more about this today, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u131	Thank you very much. The question is Senator Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u132	Minister, Senator Jackowski has basically exhausted my question. I also wanted to ask if this would be an administrative decision, like the ZRID, as in the case of road investments.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u133	It seems so. I will remind you that there is a provision that says that if the property is to be expropriated, it shall apply subject to paragraph 1. 3 laws on the expropriation of real estate respectively... [[So it's gonna be an administrative decision, right?]] Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u134	Because you said the investment would be carried out for 10 years. I think you're overreacting, because according to ZRID, these investments are quickly implemented. If it's supposed to be similar... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: What about environmental decisions as you see, Senator?]] In the case of ZRID on road construction there is no such problem. I don't want to go into this anymore because Senator Jackowski asked a similar question. I have one more question. In public space there was an interview with the president Jarosław Kaczyński, who said that the contractor is already selected. Is that true?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u135	Mr. Senator, I can only say this: the Border Guard recognizes the market. It is obvious that he is preparing for this bill to enter into force. I don't know anything about any decisions. The contractor will be able to be selected if such a decision is made in the mode of the bill that we are currently proceeding. That's all I can say, Senator. [[Is he elected or not?]] I replied to you, Senator, that the contractor could be chosen when the contract was signed under this law. The contractor or, in my opinion, the contractor, because it's not gonna be one company... It seems to me that because of the investment it will be safer to do so under such a system of participation in this many companies. [[So you didn't listen to this interview, and that's not true...]] And did you listen to this interview? [[Yes.]] I don't. [[So it is not true that Jarosław Kaczyński said that the contractor is already chosen.]] No, don't put any sentences in my mouth that you made up here. Really, please, Mr. Senator... [[I asked the simple question: is the contractor chosen or not?]] Now that's the third question. [[But do you have to count these questions or do you have to answer them?]] I answered that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u136	Good. Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Frost a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u137	Minister, I have three questions. First question. Is there any cooperation between the Polish Border Guard and Belarus at present? Is there a bandit on the other side? Are those officers who were out there? For many years...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u138	No, Senator, there is no cooperation. Like I said before, they don't actually answer their phones.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u139	The second question is: what is the effectiveness of our readmission? The Minister was talking about 400 people. What's the percentage look like? Because we know that. In Germany, these readmissions are going very hard. Do we succeed in those who do not receive asylum, do not receive a residence permit... I mean not only the last weeks or months, but whether we have any effectiveness in general, or whether there are problems here with withdrawing effective and real persons who have not received a residence permit in the Republic of Poland. And the third question. As the Minister said, more and more such walls are being built in Europe. In order for this wall to be effective, we must, of course, also look at what is happening on the Lithuanian and Latvian border. Are we following this? Because some of them also cross the Lithuanian border. Do we have any information about how the Lithuanian and Latvian sides effectively protect themselves and build... Because we know they're building these walls, too. Is it somehow coordinated, determined? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u140	Of course, Mr. Senator, we are looking at Lithuania and Latvia. These are our partners in the European Union. We're helping them. If I am not mistaken, then just yesterday another contingent of Polish police went to Lithuania to help Lithuanians while maintaining order in the border area. Lithuanians have a border with Belarus longer than we do. When, as a result of some decision by Lukashenka, this pressure went to the Polish border, the Lithuanians had a certain breath. And it has to be admitted that the pressure on their boundaries, at least in numbers, was much smaller. Nevertheless, we can see that this is not as tight a border as the Polish border, and that is where these illegal migrants often go. I would like to stress that the Lithuanians have decided to build a barrier, but rather it is a concertina fence, like ours, which the military quickly set at 140 km. This is not what we're planning, which is a large, massive fence with a height of 5.5 m, ending with concertina, so that it's hard to cross. It's more like what the military built here. The same is true on the Latvian border. There, too, you must know that there is a state of emergency due to migratory pressure. In recent days, the migratory pressure on the Lithuanian border has been increasing since the last weekend after the breath they had. Well, it seems that here, where the military is already... This is Senator Skurkiewicz, who is, of course, competent in these matters, who suggests that over a dozen kilometers, 50 kilometers is set up the Lithuanian dam. We also see such situations that people often cross the Belarusian-Lithuanian border close to the three-point line and then want to pass through the Polish-Lithuanian border. We take such situations into account, and our Border Guard and the military are vigilant in this regard. As far as readmission is concerned, it was much better before the migration crisis and what happened in Afghanistan. Because now the readmission... There's no one to talk to about readmission. Besides, a large proportion of those who are Afghans and who come here are likely to gain asylum. Nevertheless, we see some problems, especially with the readmission to Iraq. We are working on this, my colleague Bartosz Grodecki is meeting with a representative of the Iraqi state here in Poland, and we want to make this direction very quickly, because we expect that a large group of Iraqi citizens will not obtain the right to stay in Poland and we will have to intensify this process.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u141	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Marek Wąsik: Thank you very much.]] [[Applause]] I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide a written answer to a question asked by Senator Ujazdowski. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Marcin Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u142	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate is really debating a fundamental issue today, a matter of how to protect state security. Because it is true that this crisis on the Polish eastern border was deliberately provoked by the dictator Aleksandra Lukashenka. It was provoked in retaliation for the European Union's tough stance, for sanctions imposed on the Lukashenka regime by the European Union and aimed at destabilizing the European Union, especially the eastern countries of the European Union, bordering Belarus, namely Lithuania, Latvia and Poland. And it is also true that when we see aggressive groups of young men attack Polish border service, sometimes sticks or stones, we are our hearts with our border service. Because the border needs to be defended, the border needs to be protected. Large groups or any group of illegal immigrants cannot be allowed to cross the Polish border illegally. But we do not agree on how the government comes entirely to border protection. And we don't agree to build this ridiculous wall. Now let me explain why. First of all, with this wall, it's gonna be like with all the PiS investments. PiS has not started and completed any major investment for 6 years. Investments in the PiS state are used for waste and embezzlement, and usually vice versa: for embezzlement and waste. [[Voice from the hall: How are the motorways of Nowak?]] Let's just see what the Supreme Audit Office is talking about. The President of which you have chosen. Let's see what he says about the envelope elections. The rejection of these elections will be written down or even written down by golden reports in the history of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, and yet 80 million PLN has been wasted. Another case described by NIK: publishing so-called. humanitarian aid by Mrs Kempa, your famous politician, especially recently. 50 million out of 52 million, according to the NIK whose boss, I say it again, you have chosen to be issued incorrectly. You can also talk about the Justice Fund, which is overseen by the Minister of Justice, Mr Ziobro, here 280 million have been wasted or spent incorrectly and partly stolen, as Mr Banaś, President of NIK, spoke in this Chamber. Or, finally, an investment comparable to what you're planning with the wall, which is an investment in the Ostrołęka power plant. Almost 2 billion zlotys were completely wasted. 2 billion from Polish and Polish pockets, Polish taxpayers, completely wasted! The fact that this investment will be the same indicates the draft law, which clearly states that the investment is to be created without a plan, without clarity, without transparency and without control. After all, what you wrote down to control is CBA... This is a joke! The CBA is a political police, resurrected after 25 years of independent Republic, whose purpose is to destroy political opponents, and often also the gameplay within the power camp. Or is this investment to be controlled by Mr. Wąsik of Kamiński, sentenced by the Polish court to three years in prison for abuse of power, and unfortunately acquitted, contrary to the law, by a former party colleague, Mr. Andrzej Duda? But the fact that this investment is for embezzlement and waste is only one part of the reason why we're going against this wall. The second is the whole policy of the Polish state as to how to protect the Polish border. Because the fact that you have to protect her is absolutely clear to us. In this debate there have been important words that I would like to repeat: it will only be possible to guarantee the security of the Polish eastern border with Belarus if Lukashenka understands that the price for destabilising the European Union, borders with Poland, Lithuania and Latvia is too high for her. Only the European Union and the whole Western community within NATO, together, can give this price too high. Poland is not able to do this. Only the whole West can tell Łukaszence that you're gonna get those punishments, you're gonna get those sanctions, and it's gonna stop paying you what you've been doing for five months. Why isn't the PiS government doing this? Because he's completely alone in international politics, so completely impotent, weak. There's nothing you can do. Mr. Moustache's sneaky answers... [[Mr. Minister, Senator.]] [[Mr. Minister! Respect!]] Senator Borowski's questions also point to that. You don't have a plan to press Lukashenka. The only success that has been achieved in making this artificial migration bridge that Lukashenka has created in recent months... This is the European Union's action which forced Iraq to suspend its flights to Minsk. At whose request? Lithuania and Latvia. It's been announced. Why wasn't Poland there? Ladies and gentlemen, there is another last reason, namely how the border is protected. I told you that we are proud when Polish border guards, soldiers defend this border against aggressive groups, but we are not proud when, and this happens repeatedly, groups of families are exported, mothers with children to the border to the forest at zero degrees, repeatedly. How often? We don't know that, because after you imposed a state of emergency, you threw the journalists out of there. But we know that this is happening and that it is happening many times, because the inhabitants of Podlasie and Lublin are publishing numerous photographs and films from such actions. And that's disgraceful. It is against Polish tradition and it is against Polish spirit. In harmony with the Polish spirit, it is to be tough against the strong and aggressive, namely Lukashenka, but generous and hospitable towards the weak, i.e. those families with children. And you do the opposite, yes, the opposite. You are weak to the strong and allow thousands of people to enter the West, to Germany, and you are ruthless and brutal, inhuman moments, to these families, to mothers with small children. This is, I repeat, against Polish tradition and against Polish spirit. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the senators... Or maybe there's one more thing I'm gonna say. Why is that? Why are you brutal, but you do not guarantee the security of the interests of the Polish state? Maybe since yesterday we know the answer, we know who your inspiration is. We know this from the revealed e-mail of the head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, Mr Michał Dworczyk. We know who your inspiration is. This is a quote for which I as a Polish senator and a Polish citizen because it was written by an important Polish minister, it is a shame: to follow the old proven principle engraved on the daggers of Waffen-SS. It was written by your minister, the head of the Prime Minister's firm. This is a disgrace, but perhaps this is also the answer to the question of why in your politics you are brutal but ineffective. Once again, on behalf of the Senators of the Civic Coalition, I propose that this law be rejected in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u143	I admire your confidence, Senator, that this quote actually comes from the hand of Minister Dworczyk. [[Mr. What confirmed the authenticity of these...]] Senator Matecka, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The situation on the Polish-Belarusian border now goes far beyond the question of the protection of the country's territory. Today it has become primarily a humanitarian problem and an element of a logically and ethically questionable policy-propaganda strategy of the PiS government. Apart from the barbaric practices of treating refugees, refusing medical, food or preventing cooperation with legal representatives, we are faced with another extremely dangerous phenomenon, witnessed by the Law on the Construction of State Border Security. Almost every careful observer today seems clear that, with all ethical or economic objections, the project submitted is to de facto sanction the actions taken without the law in force in Poland. This will not, of course, be the first case when the government under the pretext of the so-called. the higher necessity creates a curiosity situation from the point of view of legal legitimacy and, moreover, from its nature to its corruption. Under the law for the construction of the wall, construction law, water law, environmental law, geodetic and cartographic law, rules on planning and spatial planning, protection of agricultural and forestry land, rail transport will not apply. Bypassing all procedures including tendering activities, construction law and, above all, spending a huge amount of over PLN 1 billion 600 million in such a far-reaching way would require at least minimum security in the form of external control mechanisms. Meanwhile, the construction of this most expensive wall in Europe, one kilometer of which will cost the Polish taxpayer more than EUR 2 million, will only be controlled by a fully subordinate Central Anti-corruption Office. Unfortunately, the amendments of the Civic Coalition, which aimed at broadening the group of supervisors or observers in the process of implementing the entire investment, were rejected already at the seymous stage. Moreover, the attempt to obtain European funding for this project is also avoided, which would mean control by the Community institutions. As it turned out today during the debate, the government does not have any other proposals to solve this problem on the international stage either. The law on public procurement does not apply to contracts relating to the construction of this wall, but gives extraordinary powers not only to CBA officers but also to government officials, including voivodships. This means in practice the total lack of transparency and the possibility of external verification of all actions and decisions taken and the clearance of the work carried out. A preliminary construction project is still unknown, and detailed costs and calculations concerning the project are also unknown. And all this in a situation where the credibility of the current government of the PiS is burdened by corruption issues connected with masks or ventilators, and from the CBA cashier's cashier's cashier can bring out nearly 10 million zlotys. The low credibility of the government and the institution to control the correctness of the implementation of the investment results in the adoption of the proposed law in fact being a damage to the State. The risk of embezzlement, as well as the mere lack of professionalism at every stage of the work, is far too high to allow the government to uncontrollably have such a large amount of public money. Border protection is an important issue, it is too serious to consider at such a level of generality, without concrete proposals and reliable calculations. I will therefore strongly vote against the law in its entirety. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u145	Please take the floor of Senator Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u146	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! According to my previous opinion regarding the need to secure the borders of Poland... I still believe that this is a very important and urgent task, particularly in view of the current circumstances relating to intensive illegal immigration movements observed not only at the border of our country. This is definitely a problem that goes beyond the borders of Poland. This is a very important issue, and I therefore believe that the purpose of the law, which is to ensure the protection of the state border, should not raise doubts or objections. However, what raises my objection is the way and means by which the government wants to carry out this task. It should be made clear that some of the solutions proposed in the Act raise serious constitutional doubts, as in the course of the implementation of this investment there will not be any law protecting, inter alia. constitutional values such as the right to safe working conditions, the right to protection of life and health, environmental law and the right to information. As regards this, I would like to point out that art. Article 6 (6) (a) 1st Bill... It follows from this law that the investment does not apply . a should be used Building law, water law, environmental law, environmental information, geodetic and cartographic law, land planning and land use regulations, agricultural and forestry land protection and environmental regulations, rail transport regulations, provisions on specific rules for the preparation of public road investments, public procurement law. Not required .. and should be required. The construction permit, not its notification, the decision to determine the location of the public-purpose investment, the drawing up of a construction project, the obtaining of other decisions, permits, opinions, arrangements or notifications. For environmental issues not applicable . a should be used the principles of sustainable development and water protection, environmental protection and conditions of use of its resources, liability and sanctions for environmental degradation, the principles of public disclosure of environmental information, its protection and environmental impact assessment of the project. Environmental issues are all the more important due to the fact that the border, which will be protected by a wall, runs through valuable natural areas, among others. by the Białowieża Forest, so environmental losses can be high. The argument raised that public-purpose investments often remove the obligation to comply with certain standards which apply to normal investments is that, in such a situation, the rules to be excluded should be clearly indicated. In the case of the above-mentioned law, the Sejm, when voting on this law, has authorised a kind of construction self-will, because that is what an investment should be called, to which no rules, such as administrative, civil or criminal law, need to be applied. This law excludes the application of separate provisions, i.e. in principle any applicable provisions. The effects of such a provision are unpredictable. It will be possible to build just any place, unless it opposes it as indicated in the Act of the State Border Protection Team. It is all the more worrying that the Sejm has rejected the important amendments made on these issues and ensuring relative transparency and supervision of the investment. My objection is also due to the opaque expropriation of the properties referred to in the article. 11 of this bill. It also follows that the additional costs associated with the refusal of the entitled person to accept the remuneration offered for the acquisition of property rights or the refusal to accept in the settlement of the immovable property will be charged to the entitled person, while the costs of the additional valuation should be charged to the State Treasury and not to the entitled. It also raises doubts about compliance with international law and European law on the granting of international protection. In accordance with the recommendation of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights pursuant to Article 4 of the Schengen Borders Code, the construction of fences by Member States at the external borders of the Union should take place in exceptional circumstances and be carried out in a manner which does not jeopardise the safety of the individual. Therefore, technical solutions that may lead to mutilation or death should not be used. The total lack of regulation in this law is incompatible with the Constitution and European law. The total exclusion from the application of laws protecting the aforementioned constitutional values causes that Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 law violates their essence. To conclude, the law passed in the Sejm on the construction of the state border security, which is currently being conducted in the Senate, is an outrageous and harmful precedent. This is because the law was created, which disables all fuses, among others. an assessment of the environmental impact of this project, social surveillance or judicial review. I would therefore like to make 3 substantive amendments, which I will justify in a moment, and 9 amendments which the Legislative Office has proposed. These are more technical amendments. I'll justify the first three. Amendments to the Law on the Construction of State Border Security. Article 4 is deleted. This is the first amendment. Reason. The amendment removes from the law a provision excluding the right of access to public information concerning the construction, security and technical parameters of the barrier. The deletion of this provision means that the general rules on access to public information, including those resulting from the Act on access to public information, apply to the information relating to the implementation of the investment. In other words, in particular, Article will apply to investments. 5 of that law, which provides that access to public information shall be restricted in the scope and in accordance with the rules laid down in the provisions on the protection of classified information and the protection of other statutory secrets, as well as in view of the privacy of a natural person or business secret. Therefore, if the conditions for the disclosure of certain information related to the implementation of the investment are met, this information will not be disclosed. To the rest, access to public information will be ensured. The amendment will thus eliminate the doubt as regards the conformity of Article. 7 specialities from Article. 61 in conjunction with Article 61. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Constitutions. Second amendment. Art. 8 is replaced by the following: if this is directly due to investment needs, the voivode responsible for the location of the investment, upon request or after consultation of the commandant of the Border Guard Branch responsible for the location of the investment, may prohibit the presence in a specific area not more than 200 m from the national border line. In the case referred to in paragraph. 1, the voivode will determine the area covered by the prohibition of residence and the duration of the prohibition, with a view to ensuring the protection of life and health during the implementation of the investment. The prohibition shall not apply to owners or holders of immovable property located in this area. The area covered by the prohibition of residence shall be marked in clearly visible places by signs bearing the inscription "The area of construction of the barrier'. The entrance is forbidden. The Minister responsible for Home Affairs shall, by means of a regulation, determine the template for the table referred to in paragraph. 4 and how to maintain the tables by the local commanders of Border Guard units, taking into account the need to properly designate the area covered by the prohibition of presence and the readability of the tables, specifying the template of the table referred to in paragraph 1. 4. The method of marking the border lane shall also be taken into account. Reason. The second amendment aims to eliminate significant constitutional doubts related to the provision allowing the voivodeship to ban movement within the area up to 200 m from the national border line. The amendment clarifies that, first of all, the prohibition will have to come directly from investment needs; secondly, the voivode will be required to define the area covered by the prohibition and the duration of the ban, with a view to ensuring the protection of life and health during the implementation of the investment; thirdly, the ban will not be applicable to owners or owners of real estate located in that area, while the amendment eliminates an ambiguous condition for the use of the property in accordance with its socio-economic purpose; fourthly, the area subject to the prohibition of residence will have to be marked in clearly visible places by tables bearing the inscription "The area of construction of the barrier." The entry shall be prohibited and the Minister responsible for Home Affairs shall, by means of a regulation, determine the model of the warning board and the manner in which the relevant border guards commandants maintain the tables, taking into account the need to properly designate the area covered by the residence ban and the readability of the tables. And amendment three. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 is replaced by the following: the provisions of Chapter VI of the Act of 11 September 2019 shall apply to contracts relating to investment. Reason. The third amendment prejudices that the provisions of Section VI of the Public Procurement Law apply to contracts relating to the investment, together with the legal consequences of supervision, legal remedies, judicial and administrative review. Only those contracts whose value does not exceed the Union thresholds and which fulfil the conditions laid down in Article would be excluded from the law regime. 12 allowing for a complete waiver of public procurement law. The total exclusion of the application of the law may raise doubts on compliance with EU law, European Union law. Directive 2014/24/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on public procurement... The public procurement law itself also sets out a closed catalogue of exemptions from its rules. The introduction into the national legal order of the exclusion of a new category of contracts from the strict rules of the law, which is not reflected in the catalogue of exemptions set out in the EU Directive, can be considered in terms of infringement of European law from the scope of public procurement. It must be borne in mind that the law on public procurement in Art. 12 makes it possible, under certain conditions, to derogate from the provisions of the Act in the case of contracts Okay, here's the To which a clause has been given in accordance with the provisions of the Act on the protection of classified information or which must be accompanied by specific security measures, or where this is required by a significant interest in State security in so far as the protection of the essential interests of State security cannot be otherwise guaranteed, in particular under the provisions of Section VI laying down rules for the award of contracts in the field of defence and State security. Procurement not exceeding the so-called contracts are also excluded from the public procurement regime. Union thresholds. These are the three substantively justified amendments. I'm just finishing up. Other amendments I will no longer make an argument. They are submitted at the request of the legislators. These are more technical amendments that we can analyse at the committee meeting, but as I said, they are at the request of the Legislative Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u147	Thank you very much, Senator. But I understand you're making these amendments? [[I've already put it together.]] Oh, good. Please take the floor of Senator Bure.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to this bill currently under review, it must be said that there is no doubt that Poland needs to defend its borders, that our citizens may be threatened and feel threatened in some places by the situation that occurs on the eastern border. Every country, every country has the right to have its borders respected and defended. This is very good and in this respect I very much agree. With the fact that we live in a very complex world, in a world that is not black and white, because there are some shades of gray in it, and we have to take into account everything that works in this complex world. We know that we should be and as a nation we are, I am convinced of this, sensitive to the harm of people, especially to the harm of children. It has already been said here that people who are there are often used as live shields, even Senator Czerwiński used such a phrase. Yes, yes, that's exactly how the Lukashenka regime or Putin regime works in this way, and for them, human life is very cheap. But that does not mean that we as Poles are to act in a similar way. This is difficult to balance. Humanitarian treatment of people, as I said, is a challenge, a challenge for European civilization, a challenge for us Poles. Another issue is the issue of nature, the resources that occur at the border with Belarus. The environment wasn't thought of when making this bill. I know we're in a hurry, but that's why there's a whole staff of the ministry, a lot of people employed to think a little bit more than just one element of this problem we have. We need to lean on issues related to the Białowieża Forest, with specially protected areas, all the more so because in some of these places we are not able to introduce any permanent safeguards. It must be done wisely so that nature does not suffer or suffer as little as possible and that these protected areas will somehow survive. As much as possible when making these barriers and protecting the Polish border. And that's all coming out today. I'd like to talk about... But may I add that it would be nice if the soldiers and the border service were also aware that they were in a quite precious area. 'Cause I can hear it. I hope it's just rumours. There are fires in the Białowieża Forest. I hope that this type of activity will not have to be carried out by people who guard the border there, and that we will also think about these resources. Oh, God, don't let that fire start, 'cause it's a waste of land. I want to draw your attention to something else: here we proceed with the bill that allocates our money. All of us, taxpayers' money For handing out by the Ministry, by the Border Service. We are talking here about the amount of PLN 1 billion 600 million. It's a lot of money, a lot of money, ladies and gentlemen. When I heard about this amount, I counted it at 1 m of the current border, and we have 418 km of the border with Belarus. But today Minister Wąsik sort of corrected my calculations because he said that these permanent safeguards would be about 200 km. Ladies and gentlemen, 1 billion 600 million PLN divided by 200 km, or 200 thousand m, that gives about 8 thousand PLN for 1 m of current security. 8 thousand PLN for 1 m security. So from now on... [[Voice from the room: Too much.]] That's gonna cost us $8,000, right? [[Voice from the room: That's one and a half.]] [[That's one and a half.]] That's one and a half? Then I'm sorry, my shoulders are too wide. So that's it. Oh, this will cost us an 8,000 PLN section. Next Another 8,000 zlotys. [[Voice from the room: How many meters does it have to be safe?]] Yeah, I agree. We need to keep things safe, Mr. Senator. But it is necessary for these expenses to be borne rationally and under social control, under the control of Parliament or other services that are not subordinate to the ministry or government. Security is a national matter, and we're not arguing with that. I'm not arguing with you about the need, but I want the money that I'm paying... I don't know if Mr. Senator is paying any money to the budget, doing business or working, but those who are paying have the right to know what the money's going to and if it's not wasted. So as of today, I have prepared here five amendments that introduce social control over the spending of this money. It's not easy. I do not expect that... Minister Wąsik said: you will be pleased, we will tell you how and what. Well, I'm sorry, but you personally lied to me once before. If someone's lying to me, I don't believe him next time. So now I don't want to take a word for it either, but I just want it to be written down in the bill, so that we have on paper control over the spending of money that goes into our common security and which we, citizens, are paying out of our taxes. It is not government money, it is the money of all of us who work in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not discuss these amendments. I think I'll discuss them thoroughly at the committee meeting. I've already put them together. This is, as I said, 5 amendments that give Parliament and services control, among others. such as Eurosur or the Supreme Audit Chamber It's over expenses. I don't want to reveal the details here, tell you where the detectors are, where the cables or fiber optics go, but I want us as citizens to know how much it cost us and who took the money. Because I wouldn't want that money to be hugged by people from the nearest group of ministers or government officials. There should be transparency in spending money, which we all, citizens, pay. Speaking by the Minister, as I have already mentioned here, you will be satisfied, is a text for the cabaret, not for the parliament of the Republic of Poland. Usually, if someone pays for something and taxpayers pay here, they have a right to know how that money will be used. There's a saying: I'm paying for it. I demand transparency from the government about how he spends Poles' money. And I do not want to hear such texts that unfortunately sound often from government, government benches, when you say to Poles: pay, you will be satisfied, we will spend this money, we do not care about controls, we don't care, you pay, and we will spend. This is not the way, this is not the way to a normal country, to respect those who hold the government because the government is kept from our taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u149	Thank you very much. Please take the floor, Senator Lover.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u150	I witnessed the fall of the Berlin Wall. I've seen it and experienced it with everyone in Europe. Joy, the most ordinary celebration of democracy in the world and the fact that stupid walls will never divide Europe again. In the darkest dreams, with the greatest pessimism, it did not occur to me that we Poles, on one of our borders, will build a wall to separate part of Europe from part of Europe. I cannot accept this, while understanding that the protection of our eastern borders is at the same time the protection of the borders of Europe, the Europe to which entire generations of Poles have longed and which my generation has finally won. So, respecting the work of the frontierrs who are placed by their rulers in a horrible, inhuman situation, because they have to follow orders they don't identify with themselves... 'Cause I can't believe that someone who's using the stuffing of a family with a baby doesn't have a heart and that it's not hard for him. So please accept the state representing the Border Service here really expresses deep appreciation for what you're doing for your safety and your deepest sympathy for having such powerists, who are ordering you to follow inhuman orders. I also want to thank the people of Podlasie from this speaker, because they allow us to believe that we have the right to be proud of being Poles, Poles who understand what emigration is, what it is to escape from a country where freedom is threatened, because they light green lamps, they say: in my house there is a place for someone who is cold, without shoes cut. A great appreciation for NGOs and doctors who, contrary to the bans and, contrary to the law, again, cannot be helped by those orders that have been given thoughtlessly by someone. It is certainly not that humanitarianism and security conflict. That's not true. Poland is required to comply with international agreements, the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, the Geneva Convention. We are committed to this because we are, at least I think, a democratic state. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'd be very grateful if you'd let me think. Thank you very much. Thanking and regretting, as a member of the Parliamentary Children's Group, I must read to you the appeal made to the President of the Republic of Poland and to the members of the Council of Ministers. We, the undersigned senators and Members, members of the Parliamentary Children's Team, for which the child's welfare regardless of skin colour and nationality is paramount, express concern about the fate of the children of migrants on the Polish-Belarusian border. Children's well-being is a priority and should always be in the first place. Every child deserves care and a decent life. Poland, as a signatory of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, is obliged to respect the rights of the youngest in all activities concerning children undertaken by public or private institutions, social assistance bodies, administrative courts or legislative bodies. The primary issue should therefore be to ensure the best interests of the child, especially in the dramatic situation of life. We object to the current measures applied to migrant children, while calling for immediate action to respect the rights of the youngest and to ensure their safety. We cannot accept such treatment of children as is currently taking place, the application of procedures against them that violate their rights and allow them to suffer. That is why we, members of the Parliamentary Group on Children, we call for action to safeguard the rights of migrant children. In addition, at the request of the Senator, a member of the Parliamentary Group on Children, Senator Nutchowska, we have made a request... This is a request from the Parliamentary Group's inspiration. The children signed several dozen senators. I invite everyone else, if they agree, to identify with this request, to submit their signatures. Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind, I'm gonna leave this document here for a few minutes. We, senators and senators of the Republic of Poland, demand that the current Belarusian authorities immediately stop using children as political weapons. Children of all nationalities have the right to a happy childhood, and it is the responsibility of all adults to ensure their proper care and safety. I don't wish anyone to have the laughter of their granddaughter or granddaughter or their son or daughter in his heart to thwart... Because children do not laugh at the Polish-Belarusian border at night. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u151	Please take the floor of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u152	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators and Representatives of the Border Guard! I know the government that the PiS will use this bill as an opposition baton. As before we will hear that we do not want to defend Poland, that we do not care what is happening, the threat of Poland. I remember those maneuvers that were really blown away... These Russian maneuvers with the Belarusians every four years are organized. That's what everyone should know, especially those who rule. There were 2,000 400 Russian soldiers in Belarus. Was that a huge force? Well, that's ridiculous. This wall won't work. Why won't it work? Well, because he's not gonna protect himself from such natural emigration when people try to get to where it's better. He's not gonna protect you from that. This was the case in Hungary, on the border with Croatia, and here is a different situation. Here, Lukashenka uses it as a form of pressure. This is organised by the Belarusian authorities, which have turned into a smuggling institution that brings and sends these people across the border. And that's a significant, basic difference. The Belarusian authorities, the authorities of the current Belarusian government governed by Lukashenka, must be regarded as authorities which use illegal acts that violate international law. Besides, they do the same to their citizens. There are full prisons and repressions for everything, even for someone using the opposition portal. Someone's just using it and they're about to be convicted. The consequences of such a situation should be hit by the Belarusian authorities, by Lukashenka and its government. In fact, in his country, because he treats the Belarusian State as his own. But they shouldn't hit those wretches. So what do we do? What should we do? Think about how to hit the regime. Firstly, it is necessary to prohibit the arrival of aircraft landing in Belarus from third countries. No flights, no routes, no... This is what companies of the European Union, the United States and Canada do. And you have to hit those who, however, fly to Belarus and earn money to transport their own or others' citizens. After all, this also applies to the citizens of these countries. What kind of countries are they? It's very clear, too. In relation to citizens, 5 Lukashenka countries abolished visas. And this is the list of these countries. We've been able to block flights from Iraq. I don't know if it worked out, but it worked. The European Union's intervention was effective here. But from other countries these planes fly, they fly through the territory of Poland to Belarus. That's the first line. Secondly, the trade in goods from Belarus must be blocked. Do we have that possibility? We do. It is simply necessary to block the transit of goods from Belarus through the Polish state. These 2 actions will be more effective and will solve this problem faster than building a wall that we will build first, and then, as our relations change, when Lukashenka leaves or is removed, we will destroy. Yes? Well, that's the way it's gonna be. Instead of this wall, these 2 billion zlotys need... And that's gonna be more than 2 billion to me. One billion 600 million counts here, but it's going to be more. Now you can say it's definitely going to exceed 2 billion. This money must be given to support Polish transport companies, which will lose on this blockade. And if we did... I'm trying to get the government to do this. That's the point. Two, three days, when Lukashenka comes to the conclusion that it doesn't pay off. It will cost more than it had the profits of smuggling people and sending them to the European Union. The situation is, of course, not easy, but the bandits' methods must be answered, and that must be adequately answered. The Lukashenka apparatus, the Belarusian state, including its services, has turned into something that is difficult to call a normal apparatus, a normal state. And the Belarusian bordermen, wanting or not, probably got orders. The Belarusian bordermen turned into Belarusian smugglers. I would like to say that we do not want to be literal, that we trade with Belarus in all ways under sanctions or by introducing sanctions that we have asked for. And the dynamics of this trade in the first quarter of this year in relation to the first quarter of last year, in terms of imports, are 38.8%. [[Growth.]] Growth. This is dynamics. What are we bringing in? Oil and its derivatives. Potassium. Wood. Also wood products. So on the one hand, we want to build this wall, and on the other hand we maintain the level of trade and trade that allows this regime to function. Without the kind of action I'm talking about, the wall will be ineffective. Every wall can be crossed. And I say, the wall is aimed at those who are fleeing, who want to move to Europe. They're not the culprits. The culprits are sitting in Minsk, and this is where they need to be hit. And the impact must be effective. I'm talking about it, and I'm talking about it in public. If the government doesn't think about it or pretends to do it anyway, that on the one hand it will trade, on the other hand it will build a wall, and somehow it will... Well, the situation is different because we're dealing with a man who has no rules and grabs every weapon. And if it turns out he's gonna lose power and Putin's gonna take him out, then you can think of a situation where he's gonna send a tank company to the border, he's gonna cross that border with Lithuania to save himself. And in the end... This law states that the construction will not be governed by building law, water law, environmental law, environmental information, agricultural and forestry and environmental law, rail transport law, as well as by specific rules for the preparation and implementation of public road investments. Public procurement laws will, of course, not apply. You won't even have to have a construction project. As far as those are concerned, yes, we can discuss, they are prolonging the investment process. But, gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, no project? What if that wall on someone's head collapses? It's gonna be a very tall, five-meter wall. Whose fault is that? Unfortunately, it's a bill made. on the knee, and in the final version it is an ineffective act. So I call on the government to take effective action. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]] Mr. Marshal Marek Pak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u153	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Thank you for letting me speak and replacing me at the president's table. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Well, I've been listening to this debate from the very beginning, and I find it bitter to say that I knew it would be. I knew that once again the absolutely fundamental issue from the point of view of state security, the interests of the Polish people, the security of the European Union will be used in the Senate for this total debate, total criticism. I will not comment on individual speeches. There have been many wrong amendments here in my view, making this whole situation absurd. But I must refer to Senator Bosacki's speech, because this statement and the motion to reject this law were simply disgraceful. It is already such a direct, directly anti-state activity. This is once again an outrageous speech in the Senate of the president of the club of the greatest political force in the Polish Senate. This venom, this load of negative emotions in relation to the Polish state, to the democratically elected for the next term of the self-ruled state of the Polish Government of Law and Justice, is simply a great expression of disrespect for the Polish state, is an activity destroying the Polish state. [[Applause]] That's it. I'm not gonna dwell on it anymore, because it's too much for me to say. I believe that in this incredibly difficult factual and legal situation, in this situation without precedent, when the security of the Polish border, the integrity of the Polish state, the integrity of the European Union, when we are praised for our actions by the European Commission, by Frontex, by an international opinion, we need all these services, officers, all those institutions of the Polish state which face this great challenge, simply say thank you. And I, on behalf of the Senators of Law and Justice, who support the Polish government, also in this very difficult task, thank you with all my heart. I'm proud of your work. I sympathise with you that it is from our Polish house, from the lips of other Poles that so much unfair criticism flows towards you, that from time to time you are simply reproached, insulted, insulted by the heyth, that you are under incredible emotional pressure, hindered by this extremely difficult work with great risk, and in some ways added to unnecessary stress and all kinds of dangers and dangers. [[Applause]] After all, we see these pictures, we listen to the Border Guard conference, we see what happens there, that cars come up from the Belarusian side, windows open, and someone points to officers with firearms, shots fired. Well, it's really a situation that's never happened before. And in such situations the unity of the Polish nation, the unity of the Polish state, the unity of the Polish political elite is especially needed. And that unity is obviously not in the Senate. Once again, she's not on such an important case. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this law and these actions relating to a particular challenge, the construction of a barrier at the border, a barrier which is nothing new... Many countries, particularly at risk of illegal migration, have such installations, that is already a standard, unfortunately, we live in such times. But we need to respond to new threats, we need to respond responsibly and effectively. We will react to them in many other ways. After all, there was talk of various types of sanctions that are being considered, of various talks on the international stage. But this is one concrete project that needs to be implemented quickly, modernly, effectively. And we want to give you this instrument to make it work. I appeal to the Senate's majority not to support the motion to reject this law. Polish society supports the actions of the Polish government in this area, and supports them from the very beginning. If you are such democrats, respect this will of the Polish society, do not torpedo this important project in such a total way. Amendments are completely different, but rejecting this law is really a harmful, irrational activity, which Putin and Lukashenka applaud. To conclude, I hope that this bill in the Senate will pass, that the Polish state will actually be able to build this dam quickly, that with further such heroic efforts of individual services we will deal with this crisis, the crisis which I recall once again in the Senate, is simply part of the brutal, cynical, calculating hybrid war waged by Lukashenka, with the help of Putin, against the Polish nation, the Polish state and the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u154	Please take the floor of Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Maybe without big words, 'cause a lot of them are raining here. Of course, you can play with emotions, you can use different expressions, you can hit the string of patriotism, you can hit the string of humanitarianism, politicians often do that. But let me speak more specifically this time. I can't vote for this bill because I don't know what you're building. I don't know what you want to build there. I don't know who's gonna control it. We don't really know how long it's gonna be built. And for those reasons at least, we should not vote in favour of such projects. This is an under-explained, under-described project. Today we find out that the border will be partially secured, not entirely. Maybe something else. We'd know if the discussion had lasted longer. That's just the way it is. In my opinion, it is It's an untraceable investment. And it's impossible because we're building this dam or wall or whatever we want to call it on the border with dictatorship. Mostly dictators protect their borders and secure them so that their citizens cannot escape to democracy. That's what happened most of the time. When dictators from East Germany or the Soviet occupation zone wanted to protect themselves from the escape of citizens, they built the Berlin Wall. And Lukashenka needs such a wall on the border with Poland, so she is happy that we will build it. Well, we're building this wall or this dam for Lukashenka, because the refugee crisis that's described here is all true, it's a hybrid war. After all, it will end faster than dictatorial governments in Belarus, and the barrier will remain and act against Belarusian citizens who will want to escape. Because in Belarus there will be terrible things going on, there will be oppression of opponents, there will be riots, perhaps there will be more. People will want to escape, they will want to save themselves, but the Polish barrier will not allow them to do so. But we will build it. Soon there will be no refugees, but there will be other people who will try to get through to us. And this border will be closed, Lukashenka will be protected from Poland and will be happy for this reason. On Russia's side, it's secured, it's got other boundaries. But this easiest road to the West will be built, closed by our firewall. And he certainly, from such a strategic point of view, is happy to have led to this. Because he's the one who led this barrier to be built, and he's glad it worked. In fact, he's reached his goal for our money, so he's even more excited. And he's still making money out of it, 'cause it's definitely like he's smuggling these people in. Everything you're describing is true, so he has a double interest in it, and we're helping him with it. That's why I can't vote for it. I appeal to the builders of this dam: if you're going to build it, try to do it in such a way that in these cases, which I am describing, it could be disassembled. I don't know how else to put it. So that it will not be as tight an obstacle in the future as you imagine it to be. I hope there's such a thing in these plans. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u156	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Komorowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u157	Somebody's notes are here. [[Well, take it.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would start with this: let's not worry about who will be happy to build this barrier on the border, just look at their own Polish business. And I will say this: we are in the Polish Parliament, in the Polish Chamber, and the Polish right is the most important here. [[Applause]] As I listened to Marshal Borusewicz, especially the first words of his speech, but also some other senators from the Civic Platform or the Civic Coalition, it seemed to me that our diagnosis of the situation was coincidental, but the words were coming up soon. 'Cause I'm sorry. Yeah, something doesn't add up. ♪ Just all the time ♪ It speaks out of your distrust, and even, I would say, hostility to the rule of law and justice. [[Voice from the room: There are reasons.]] Hit the table and the scissors will talk. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to you: come to your senses. There's still time for you to come to your senses. You often refer to the constitution. What does our constitution say in the preamble? This is the first sentence of the Constitution:.In order to care for the existence and future of our Homeland... Consider this: "For the sake of existence and the future." And in the article. 5, right at the beginning, we read: Rzeczpospolita Poland protects the independence and integrity of its territory. I am surprised at the statements of the Ombudsman, who has doubts about this law. I spoke in my report, saying that I had really serious doubts about the Ombudsman's doubts. We're in the Polish Parliament. We're here to represent our national business. But what happens at the border? Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is Senator Mariusz Gromko talking about it. The vast majority of the Polish-Belarusian border is its constituency. We met with the Podlaskie Border Guard Commandant in Bialystok to just talk about the situation. I also talked to the Podlaskie voivode about this situation, known here to many colleagues, because it was former Senator Bohdan Paszkowski. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no alternative. This is the result of the words of the Podlaskie Commandant of the Border Guard. For the construction of this barrier, this barrier. To our questions, are there any doubts of the local community, we heard the answer that there are no, even the expectation of building it. Right now, this community is a little embarrassed, a little scared, because the way it gets through... Because the Belarusian border guard works nights, days, and watches where our movements are. They make opposite moves, etc., etc. Well, it's hard to imagine we're gonna put up every five yards of a soldier or a border guard over a 400-mile radius. So in some ways some people manage to get through. And they're already starting to be a little dangerous. People living there are scared for a while. We're talking about consultations, what are the doubts, etc., etc. I spoke to the voivode, asked them if they had heard any local government from this area, from this lane would appear with an appeal, a position of the local government, some resolution of the commune council, a city that is against that it is... No, there is no such position, on the contrary. I know some of these self-governments. When we talk to them, we hear that they expect decisive, rapid action. And you want to torpedo everything, because it's worse for you, the better. It's been said many times on this side that we don't build on the whole. Well, I don't know, let's build on the lake. This dam is to be built on all non-water stretches, which is beyond the rivers, beyond the swamps. And there's no alternative here. I have no doubt that I will vote and support. Well, I hear a speech here: I won't vote because I don't know what he's gonna build... etc., etc. Well, let's not overreact. Really, let us stand above all divisions and act like the Lithuanian Parliament, which unanimously supported this kind of solution. That's where the coalition and the opposition supported it. There is no more important matter than maintaining sovereignty, the integrity of borders. Didn't we lose the border in Poland's history? Didn't we pay for losing the border? I look at this side all the time, because from this side, these voices fall. The highest price? Can we not draw conclusions? Can we not at least stand above, vote and reject a motion for rejection in this matter? I don't know if he's gonna formally drop at the committee meeting or if he's gonna be pulled out. I'm making a motion to adopt the bill again without any amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u158	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Maria Blanket.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u159	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The position of the government party, the government of the Republic of Poland, as well as the democratic parliamentary majority is clear: we must defend the borders of Poland, we are obliged to do so. The borders of Poland are to ensure the safety of Poles and Poles. Dear Sirs, the security of our citizens is our reason for the state, it is our primary duty as people who exercise power in this country, it is actually the duty of all politicians who should fight for this security. Ladies and gentlemen, today's heated debate in the Senate about the law on border security, on the construction of a barrier on this border, on the Polish-Belarusian border... We know why this dam is needed, and today many words have been said. As I said, the position of the government side, the United Right, is clear, we must guard our borders, and this is a measure that will help us to ensure that this border is effectively guarded. The construction of this barrier must simply be carried out in the specialty mode so that it does not last 10 years, as the Minister said, so that this dam can be built as soon as possible and so that it can prevent illegal entry of migrants from the Middle East, from northern Africa into the territory of the Republic of Poland. So the position of the government and the majority of Parliament, the democratic majority of Parliament, is clear. And what is the opposition's position, ladies and gentlemen? It seems that it is difficult for Poles who are listening to this debate to come up with an opinion, which you are actually behind. You say that you are in favour of protecting the Polish border, but you also say this: construction of the barrier, no, the operation of the Border Guard, also not, the increased operation of various services at the border is also not necessary, the state of emergency is also unnecessary. So what do you suggest? Sealing the border... There are appeals, regrets addressed to the Border Guard: we regret that you must follow orders. Border Guard is here to guard the border, that's what it's there for, not to seal this border and let people into places that should be secured. There are border crossings, you can go there and file documents there, you can seek international protection there. You can go to the consulate in Minsk or any other city in Belarus, where consulates function, and there you can seek international protection. Do you have to cross the border in places that are not allowed? It's illegal, isn't it? Is the Border Guard supposed to let that happen? No, that's not what the Border Guard is for in Poland, as well as in any other country. The State is doing its duty and the State is doing it very well. I join all the thanks that have come to the Polish Border Guard from the Senate Speaker. Thank you very much, we feel safe thanks to you. I'm sure your service is very difficult, because it's certainly not easy to resist a few dozens of times. - a few dozen or so desperate groups, people who were deceived, brought to Belarus, invited to Belarus, who often spent thousands of euros or dollars on this, came here, promised that they would easily cross the border, they would be in German territory and they would already be able to live safely, and that is not so, because they came to Belarus and found that the border was tight and it was very difficult to cross. They're desperate, they're getting more aggressive. We've heard of them throwing rocks, throwing branches, pushing the Border Guard in large groups. This border service is becoming more and more dangerous. Ladies and gentlemen, the construction of a barrier is simply necessary, it is necessary, because it is the only solution available and effective. And why is the only solution available and effective on such a scale? We saw the Balkan route, which in 2015 a million people from the Middle East moved to the west of Europe. And when was the Balkan route closed? Then, when Croatia was fenced, Serbia, when a wall was erected on the Hungarian-Bulgarian border, when a wall was erected on the Greek-Turkish border. Is that where the dictatorships are? Mr. Senator, my previous speaker said that dictatorships are deflecting. No, these are democratic countries, they're just fighting for the safety of their citizens. The Balkan route was closed, so a new route had to be established. Human smugglers, those who make millions of profits from illegal human smuggling, obviously want a new route. And this has sort of happened to Alexander Lukashenka's plans, who wants to destabilize the situation in the European Union, not only in Poland but also in the west of Europe. That's what he's after because he's getting revenge for sanctions. So, of course, it's very helpful for him to set up such a new route, too, right? Through Belarus and then through Poland to Western Europe. Because these immigrants in Poland don't want to stay, they just want to go to Germany. Everyone on the border is screaming Germans! Germany! The Germans are afraid of it, too. They don't want a repeat of the 2015 situation either. They are against illegal migrants pushing the European borders again. They're just afraid of it. Therefore, the Minister of the Interior of Germany made it clear that he supports the construction of a barrier at the Polish-Belarusian border. Ladies and gentlemen, there are also voices here that there are such situations that families with children after crossing the Polish-Belarusian border, when they are already on Polish soil, are pushed abroad to Belarus. I don't know, I don't know the situation, and I hope that's not the situation. We saw families with children who went illegally to Poland and were turned back to Belarus because they did not want to submit documents for international protection here. They did not want to file such documents in Poland. This is the family that came to Michałów. After all, parents have to file such documents so that their children can stay in Poland. But the family didn't want to, they wanted to go back to Belarus. Because they wanted to get to Germany, not stay in Poland. And that's what happens. And of course, ladies and gentlemen, all of us are always very sorry for these people, we are very sorry for these children and these families, but at the moment when we are going to act consistently, it is nobody of these families, no one of these children, no one of these people will bring them to Belarus and will not have them with a vision of easily crossing the border. Let's be consistent. Look what happened in Usnarz. That's where the gentlemen who said they were from Afghanistan stayed for months or so. They were supposed to be from Afghanistan, but they've lived in Moscow or under Moscow for years. And somehow they were in Usnarz. Well, see how many fiery speeches were made to defend these people, that they should be allowed into Poland, because they are poor immigrants from Afghanistan, hungry and unattended. Well, it turns out they were getting food from the Belarusian side. Surely their situation was very difficult, but the consequences of Polish border services caused them to leave this camp because they knew they would not cross the border. And if we let them in, we'd have camped at the border of dozens or even a few hundred. Consequence in action. We're here to protect our borders. This is the responsibility of the border service and we, as politicians, are also obliged to ensure the safety of our fellow countrymen, especially Poles. We are here for Poles and then for the rest of the world, Ladies and gentlemen. As far as migration is concerned, we know that there is a great deal of such zones of poverty and conflict in the world. There are about 800 million people living in these zones. It's a shame for all of us. They need to be helped there, on the spot. They must be helped to resolve political conflicts so that they do not escalate and that there are no wars outside Europe so that these people can live there as normal as possible. Because we can't help them all here in Europe. We need to be clear about this, we need to be aware of it. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Senator, 10 minutes...]] We need to be aware of that. The interest of Poles and Poles above all else, Ladies and gentlemen. And comparing this barrier on the border to the Berlin Wall, I find it shameful, outrageous. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u160	Please take the floor of Senator Lydia Staron. It's remote. Is Senator Lydia Staron with us? If you do not have a senator, please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u161	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, this matter should be the subject of a broad agreement. In fact, it would be an expression of public health if it were the subject of a broad agreement. As far as my position is concerned, I am ready to support the actions of the authorities that seal the borders, including the construction of this barrier, and I am ready to talk about a serious correction of the law on the response to migration. In addition, the debate on this issue begins on a European scale. But this consensus or this broad agreement As one of the previous speakers advertised it very strongly, recalling the example of Lithuania, it requires a certain seriousness, it also requires compliance with principles compatible with Polish culture, i.e. especially compatible or especially required by Polish culture. Well, and the seriousness would dictate not to reject the proposal to amend this law, namely those amendments which were tabled here by Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, which are worth considering and would build wide agreement around this project. Moreover, the work on such a project should be carried out under conditions of special consultation with the opposition. Prime Minister Morawiecki, when the revolution began in Belarus, began such talks, but then he never continued them again, although they were not rejected. On this occasion, I would like to say that I will support the amendments tabled by Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. Yeah, but there's two other things. First of all, this thing is happening in the context of what public television shows, and public television is threatening Poles with some huge storm of strangers who will threaten our security and our culture. These are materials that take away these people's dignity. Is this a man's way of dealing with reality? Is this a responsible way to deal with reality? In our culture, a man does more than he says he can defend his home, his homeland, but without taking the dignity of others. Especially a man... I'll tell you why I'm talking about men. Because the culminating moment of this barbaric propaganda campaign was the performance of 2 constitutional ministers, one of them even participated in the solidarity movement, showing pornographic images. Would you like someone in your family to play this role? This is total barbarism! That's what's left in human memory. And that's the context we're talking about. Now, here's what I'd like to hear. Why did I ask Minister Moustache about this... And, on this occasion, I would like to add that I very much wish that my former friends from the democratic opposition, such as the honored White Eagle Bronisław Wildstein, would speak on this press conference. I'd like that very much. And I look forward to that very much, and I look forward to it as a politician who, due to the interests of the state, will support border sealing activities. And I will not vote against this bill. But if you want consensus, bring morality back to this, don't let that happen. Things you would never allow in your families, and you would allow them in public life. Finally, since you believe that you are sealing this border, and I wish this and, to tell you the truth, I am surprised why Minister Wąsik does not say: yes, we will do it in 3 or 4 months, since we have an extraordinary right, we should at the same time show the world that we will consider legal asylum applications in Poland and not push people out to prevent legal procedure. That's the point. not only morals, but also the reputation of the Republic of Poland. Perhaps security is more important than reputation, but Poland was given the solidarity revolution, thanks to the fact that it was not an oppressor, because it was not a colonial state, it was a beautiful brand in the world. We cannot have the opinion of a country that shows indifference to mothers and children at the border. If you say that we are creating a law that seals the border, which will prevent illegal immigration; at the same time, we must prove that we will, after this border sealing, be able to accept women and children, open points in which legal admission procedures will be carried out. Will this pressure be lower or greater? I wish it was smaller than it is now. But that's what we should witness to the world. And there will be no consensus unless the barbaric propaganda that depicts immigrants as aliens, worse ones, threatening our culture is stopped, propaganda that is completely contrary to the culture that we inherited from Mickiewicz and Slovak. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u162	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Grzegorz Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u163	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, let's start with the culture that my previous speaker was talking about. Polish culture, Polish history is the history of the suburbs of Christendom, the suburbs of Europe. At this meeting we will adopt a resolution on the 400th anniversary of the Battle of Chomim. There were many such events, there were many hordes that attacked the borders of the Republic of Poland. And these borders were always defended effectively by proud Poles, by people who proudly carried Polish signs, Polish insignia. I can say that this is a particularly joyful day for me, that this is the law we are discussing here in the Senate. Since 2015 as a Senator from Biała Podlaski Northern Lublin region, so this area, which is currently struggling with the influx of migrants On various occasions, I called for effective safeguards on the Polish border. It can be said that we have years of omissions or negligence here, which resulted from pressure, from the moralization of various backgrounds, which unfortunately our formation was succumbing to. We wouldn't have this African swine fever disease if we had such safeguards at the Polish-Belarusian border as we are now. The Germans founded it on the Polish-German border. I do not know if you know, but at the Polish-German border there are quite good safeguards, there will not be simply a green border. If we had this wall or these fortifications before, many bad things would not have happened in Poland. After all, we are dealing with some escalation of events by the violent state, which is Belarus at the moment, by dictatorship, which benefits from various kinds of criminal activities. The river of cigarettes illegally produced in Belarus, counterfeits that flow to Poland, through Poland further, to Europe, is an event that Polish services have been dealing with for many years. Alcohol was smuggled through there, and now people, now people are smuggled in. From every smuggled man, this regime and people associated with this regime are receiving a salary, a large amount of money. The ticket itself, ladies and gentlemen, to Minsk according to the information revealed by our services is $1,000 600, yes, $1,000 600. I know how much money this is for these people, for the people of those countries where migrants come from. We are dealing with people who buy a ticket to a better economic future. They don't run from anything, most of them do well in their place of residence, where they are located, where they live. Poland is the country that has adopted the most immigrants in Europe. Every year we receive hundreds of thousands of people, to whom we give legal work and a legal place to live in Poland. We are a country that not only in Europe but in the world is leading the number of migrants accepted. We have nothing to be ashamed of here. Poland is a hospitable country, Poland is a country that welcomes people who really need help with their heart. Those who use tourist offices and come to Belarus as tourists, paying for it, do not belong to the category of people in need of assistance. If they really needed it, they would report to the relevant services, they would report to the Polish border offices where they could submit appropriate documents and ask for their legal care. Much has been said during this discussion, and I listened to it partly remotely, then in the room. I have heard many things, many words that will be used in the propaganda of Lukashenka, in Putin's propaganda, or even directly from this propaganda. Stories of those kids in the woods getting wet and freezing, kids with cats... I'll remind you that those kids have parents there, those parents brought them there, yes, they brought them there. The responsibility for these children being in the woods rests primarily on those who brought them there, and on those who earn from it. And this is neither the Polish service nor the Polish state. We heard voices of concern for the welfare of wild animals when this wall was built. And I don't know if you know that there are excellent border guards on the Belarusian side, it's called sistema. That's where the mouse can't get through. These are Soviet border devices. These people pass through these Soviet border devices, because Belarusian services pass through them for money, allowing them to pass through. So Senator Necessary, who said that political refugees from Belarus will not get to Poland because we will build this wall, probably does not know what is on the other side of the border. Finally, there were arguments here that if we are to build, then we are to build according to the law, best to make tenders, etc. Well, we want to build it quickly, effectively. We're not gonna wait for a settlement, for protests in tenders, for court settlements. This construction is needed now and must be built quickly. And it will be built well. I was outraged by the statements of the senators who questioned the possibility of Polish engineers building this construction by Polish soldiers, by Polish bombers. It's a shame you think they're messed up. Finally, there was also an argument in this discussion that there would be no access to public information on security issues at that border. That would not be enough for the other party in public information mode to find out what kind of border defense systems we have. That's what I'd miss. The senator who said that probably put the codes to his home alarm on the mailbox, didn't he? Well, then he feels safe and transparent. Therefore, we must also remember the need to protect the secret, because the secret is needed to protect this border effectively. But in order to say something important that I am concerned about, I would really like to ask the representative of the government whether the Polish services, or whether the Polish officers have all the tools needed to protect the Polish border. Does not the current law prevent you from effectively responding to this threat to the Polish border? Because to the violence, to this attack the Polish forces must respond adequately, they must be able to respond with all their power. If there are provisions that prevent such a response, they should be amended. I know that for example. Polish soldiers do not have... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, 10 minutes...]] I'm almost done. I'm getting to the bottom of this. They don't have rubber bullet shotguns, they can't use them. So what, they're gonna shoot at fear or shoot with sharp ammo? This is a loophole preventing the adequacy of the response to the threat. We need to equip Polish services with the right tools. The police have it, there's no military, I don't know if there's a border guard, I don't think there is. And such tools in response to violence... Services at other parts of the European Union border have such tools. So let us provide our officers, let us provide our soldiers with all the tools they need, because the real wall that protects Poland, which protects the Polish border, is the breasts of Polish soldiers, the breasts of Polish officers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u164	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u165	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! General! I think that this long debate shows very many important problems. The basic question that can be asked is: is there a threat on our eastern border that has been unprecedented over the past few decades? The second question is whether, for the first time in the east of Europe, such risks have arisen in connection with the use of new technologies, using people as living shields, using various socio-technical and psycho-technical means to conduct so-called. hybrid activities. I think that the answer to these questions is fundamental in the context of whether the Polish State is able to secure its eastern border or whether it is able to secure the eastern border of the European Union Because our eastern border is also the eastern border of the European Union And whether it is able to secure the eastern border or, as it is said, the North Atlantic Pact flank. We see clearly that the way the other side works is a ruthless way, aimed at, in my deep conviction, both destabilising within Poland And this debate in Poland is a part of this attempt, because the opinions on the issue are divided. As well as the destabilisation of the European Union. Because what does an uncontrolled influx of illegal immigrants into the European Union mean? Well, we had a sample of this in 2015, we remember what caused it, what extensive social, economic, but also political crises. From this point of view, I believe that the construction of this dam or this installation Perhaps it would be more appropriate to talk about this installation, and it is all right to keep it to a minimum... You'll never build security that will be 100% Sealed. History of the functioning of border guards With all due respect to our Border Guard, various countries in different ages have shown that they have crossed borders with different methods. But this does not mean, of course, that we should not take such measures and should not adopt solutions which also provide physical protection for Polish Border Guard officers, Polish soldiers and civilians. I'll tell the High House that these pictures that we saw in the media two days ago, showing what's happening on the east border, how a group of immigrants are attacking the temporary barriers that are set up there at the moment... According to the Border Guard representative, officials of the Belarusian border services were also identified among those who were aggressive. So it was not a spontaneous action of a group of determined people, who were in extremely difficult conditions, who were simply taking this type of action, but it was conscious provocation. And we see that these provocations are getting worse. What's going on here? This is not only about playing with emotions and using the humanitarian factor, but it is also about provoking, in my opinion, actions that would end, for example. the exchange of fire or the occurrence, I would say, of direct short circuit between the services of both border states, and this in turn would cause an avalanche of events whose consequences are difficult to imagine at the moment. Besides, High Izbo, as parliamentarians, maybe with a few exceptions concerning those who perform important functions of state, I think of Minister Skurkiewicz here, who is Deputy Minister of National Defence, or Minister Wąsik, who is Deputy Minister of Interior and Secretary of the College of Special Services, we are in such a situation that we have about the same level of information as citizens have. We do not have access to the information that comes every morning and the second part of the day to the desk of the President and the President of the Council of Ministers. These are information from special forces obtained from various sources, among others. on the basis of cooperation with our allies, friendly structures responsible for security issues. And that's why I would appeal to the opposition in this case to have more confidence in the government. Have more confidence in the government in such a difficult situation. That is perfectly understood by Poles. Please note the outcome of the public opinion polls in this respect, which is the social expectation. Social expectations are such that the Polish government, the Polish authorities, the Polish state will guarantee the safety of Poland and Poles. And that's the obvious expectation. That is why I believe that the motion to reject this law is unnecessary. Also unnecessary in the light of statements from a few weeks ago, President Donald Tusk, who said that he was a supporter of the sealing of the Polish border. He clearly said that, and it is not the politician of the governing camp, I think no one in this room has any doubts about that. This does not, of course, mean that there are no elements in this law that may raise some doubts. It was not by chance that I asked the Senator rapporteur and the Minister about the question of Art. 10 and 11. In my opinion, this could be written more precisely, it could be clarified, because this type of behaviour causes unnecessary emotions, tension and a sense of harm which may arise in those who believe that they have lost their property or lost their financial ownership as a result of this investment. So that such amendments could be profiled as much as possible. And finally, such a general remark. Well, High Izbo, it seems to me, unfortunately. I stress the word 'unfortunately' that we will have to deal with the escalation of what will happen on our eastern border. We will also be dealing with diversification of activities, perhaps with a change of tactics or strategies that will be applied. But please note that since 2014, i.e. since the aggression against Ukraine, when for the first time in the public debate in the European dimension, but in Poland, it was really started to discuss what hybrid war was, because then in the public circulation, widely understood, this concept began to appear, to consider what kind of methods are being used and how all of this happens... I think that all of us, as the second chamber of the Polish Parliament, should be aware that we are living in a time where there is some deviation from these traditional definitions of threats that have been so far, mainly, let's call it military direct concentration of troops, some movements, maneuvers... This is also an important element, I do not say that it does not exist, but there are new techniques, new techniques of operation, especially cyberspace, which is the area in which it is done. Cyberspace, through which you can e.g. enter the national security features of the electricity grids. This is a giant problem. You don't need a division here, you just have to go in and shut down the power for just a few hours. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska- Stanecka: Mr. Senator, 10 minutes.]] So that we must realise that, in view of the scale of these threats, of the challenges that we face, we should demonstrate a fundamental sense of solidarity, of building a belief among citizens, that we want a safe state and that we equip this country, depending on the circumstances, with such instruments that we, all citizens, can ensure security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u166	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Lydia Staron, remotely. [[Ladies and gentlemen, we have recently become the target of a vile attack by...]] [[Disruption during the speech]] I can't hear you. Senator, I'm so sorry. You're holding up the sound and we can't hear you. You can hear every second sentence, one third even. [[Voice from the room: Maybe the camera shuts down, there's a better transfer.]] If you turn off the camera, maybe it'll be better if... [[Okay.]] ...but now we can't hear anything. Senator, we can't hear you. [[Better?]] We didn't hear at all, now we just heard the word better. [[Is it okay? Is it okay now?]] Go ahead. If there's anything wrong, I'll say it. [[Good. Then tell me if there's no voice. Yes?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u167	Then I'll talk. Recently, we have been the target of a vicious attack by the Belarusian regime. The Belarusian government is implementing a long-standing plan to trigger a crisis in Poland, using migrants, even hostages, unaware people being pushed into our territory into Poland. On the Belarusian side, the border guards of the regime even deliver thousands of migrants to the border line, deliberately and consciously pushing these people to Poland not through the border crossing, but through forests, swamps, river. This is against the law. At the same time, Belarusian propaganda cynically accuses us of inhumane treatment of people, claiming that migrants are freezing in the woods and Poland does not want to let them in. Unfortunately, the exact same allegations are made by some Polish politicians supported by media empathizing with children's paintings. On the one hand, we are looking at an attempt to create a crisis in Poland, as well as a powerful business of the regime, which draws huge revenues from human trafficking. They're a tool in the hands of Lukashenka and Putin. International mobs who take advantage of this opportunity also make a lot of money for the illegal transfer of people. On the other hand, we see our military and Border Guard in the number of about 10,000 people. These people tirelessly, even heroically, defend the border and thus Polish citizens. Are we to be blackmailed? Can you give in to terrorists from Minsk? We are Poles, after all, it is about our security, the security of our citizens, the citizens of the Union. Yeah, we're Poles. We know that there may be Islamic terrorists among migrants. Most of these people don't have documents, and their true identity is unknown. After all, the region from which they come was the arena of the cruel governments of the Islamic State. How many fighters can be among the migrants brought in by Belarus? One? Ten? Stu? What about the Russian Federation? After all, it is obvious that such an operation would not have been carried out without Russia's consent or assistance. How can we be sure that there are no Russian personnel in this group? Are we to suffer the consequences of not stopping this pressure? That's why it's so important to build the right installations on our border. Of course, we must act in different ways, using sanctions as well. We are doing this not only for our safety, although it should be paramount, but also for the benefit of all these migrants, so that Belarus does not bring them any more, having the delusion of a better life in Europe. Because if we surrender now, it won't end with those people who are camping on the Polish-Belarusian border. There'll be more and more. If we bend once, we bend again and again and again. This is what the regime is counting on, but unfortunately it seems that some politicians are also counting on it, the same politicians who are protesting... calling for the so-called. humanitarian admission, but not through the border crossing, but through the green border, illegally. Are they heroes? In my opinion, I'm afraid not. There are limits to hypocrisy. Why do they not fight with similar determination for the welfare of Poles when their lives are at risk? We have many examples. What about Polish families living in Podlasie and their endangered lives? Why isn't anyone protesting? I have a whole avalanche of requests for help, a whole avalanche. These people are writing to us and asking for help, the families that are in Podlasie, and so are the others. Should they also send pictures of Polish children, their children, to defend them? Time is a crucial factor for migrants. And here it is, as the senator said. The senator was talking about green lights, and I'm saying there's fear, great fear, because there are certain actions and other things, so to speak, actions and events. I will say again: on migrants, time is the decisive factor. It should be stressed that there are 500, 600 illegal attempts every day to cross the border, increasingly aggressive. These are attempts by the known Border Guard, and the question is how many effective attempts we do not know about. How many anonymous young men are already in Poland, Germany? People without any documents, no identities, no past that could be verified, people with different traditions, views, or maybe with a terrorist past and intentions... people who don't come to us as guests who can accept our customs, culture or thinking. The experience of Western European countries in 2015 shows us that these people are not integrating and that they are motivated to migrate Of course sometimes, maybe not always There are free material benefits offered by European countries. In the matter of our country's security, one must expect, what is most important, unity. This is not the time for hypocrisy like: borders need to be protected, but without axes, walls or dams. Is that best with your bare hands? Of course, I will vote in favour of this law, but amendments may be made to this law, because it is time to act decisively and consistently. It's about our citizens, their health and their lives, their safety. It is also an attempt to answer the question: is it appropriate to permit an unlawful violation of the borders of the sovereign state, or does the Republic of Poland have the right to decide who it will let in and under what conditions? Or is it enough for a Belarusian dictator to lose any decision in the area of his own security? [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Senator, 10 minutes.]] I hope so. I'm done. I hope that this will not be the case, that it is primarily about security and Poland and the Union, and that I will therefore support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u168	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Hamerski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u169	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! In fact, my statement will come down to an appeal to the High House, because I think everything has been said from this place today, perhaps all the arguments behind this law and against this law have been put forward. The Minister was here addressing us, the High House, to proceed with the bill over political divisions. I think it's probably the High House, because we've had many examples that the High House can listen, of course, if it wants to listen, and I think that in this case it probably wanted to hear the Minister's speech. Ladies and gentlemen, as this is about the security of our country, the security of our nation, the security of our services, which are now on the eastern border, we must say to ourselves: 'Cause often in the media, including social media, there's not always enough to describe what's being done on this eastern border. It's not a wall, it's just a dam that it's not going to be 418 kilometers of wall, it's probably just a few hundred kilometers of dam, and it's obviously hard to tell how much concrete it is right now. Ladies and gentlemen, as Poland, as a Polish nation, I would not like to see this lesson taken by southern Europe during the attack of migrants across the Mediterranean to Italy, to Greece. God forbid we have to rehearse this lesson from the east border. Ladies and gentlemen, if we do not organise these welds ourselves, there is no hope that we will do so with the hands of Frontex, the European Union, NATO. We must do this with our joint effort and with the efforts of our services, which guard this border. Let me say this: I was born without a small one on the border, I have land not on the eastern border, but on the southern border, with Slovakia. I remember how our southern border, then brotherly countries, i.e. Czechoslovakia and Poland, looked like. And here's what I'm going to say: if there's no barrier on the east border, ladies and gentlemen, if there's no technical equipment there to strengthen our services, then we won't be able to stop migration in any other way. That is why my request is that we all support this bill together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u170	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u171	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! Minister! At the beginning, I think that just like everyone else here in this room I would like to thank the Border Guard, the army, the police and other services who defend our eastern border, which is to defend the cohesion and integrity of the territory of the Republic of Poland. You guys just work practically, and all we're talking about here is theory. Again, a heartfelt thank you. As far as the bill is concerned, I, in my questions, tried to draw attention to a few things that I might now highlight. Is this barrier necessary? Well, that's evidence. The proof, to put it simply, is that such barriers arise in other places, not only in the world but also in Europe. No other methods are used, and if this happens, above all, barriers of different types are built, with different constructions. It should be the same here. Here is one difference that I was talking about, namely that this barrier is intended to prevent spontaneous action not only of refugees... but of refugees, but of people who want to get into a better, richer world, but also of planned, biased, coordinated, with political support and political promoters, of the actions of the Belarusian state services. This barrier, of course, is intended to prevent people from entering the countries of North Africa or the Middle East, but in fact our opponents, in quotes, are Belarusian services here. I don't think we're dealing with this situation anywhere in Europe. Therefore, the construction of this barrier will have to take this into account. This is a big challenge because she will be different and should be different for a simple reason: because on the other side there will not only be an immigrant, but there will also be a borderman from Belarus, equipped properly, and he will try to help this immigrant. I can imagine, for example. such a situation that someone will be quoting the visibility or blinding on the other hand our optical devices, let's assume, using laser. Is that possible? Yes, of course. So this barrier must be immune to it, and so must these devices. I can even imagine that someone on the other hand with an agricultural tractor or some other machine will just smash this barrier, destroy it physically. We did not have such cases outside Poland, but this could happen on this border. The question is, what are we going to be judged of? Not from this bill, but from the effectiveness, that is, from the operations of the Border Guard conducted with the help of the military, with the help of the police and other services. This effectiveness is about to be increased by this barrier. We won't be well rated if this barrier proves ineffective. To be fully effective, I'm afraid. I say 'unfortunately', because it also requires action, I would call it, diplomatic, and it's very wide-ranging. We must join in with other activities, which are also carried out by foreign services. Because it cannot be that through the territory of the European Union, i.e. our friends and ours, they will fly through these planes with immigrants. But such planes should not pass beyond the territory of Ukraine. Ukraine is our friend, we help her Well, now he can just return the favor. If they want to fly, they can only fly through Russia. And then all they have left is the North Pole. Well, ladies and gentlemen, these are obvious. I understand that all those who were caught trying to transport immigrants into the country, namely to Germany, so those who want to use it so directly, materially, will be properly judged, and their transport cars will be taken, requisitioned, and it will not be as it was in the Mediterranean for a time when the ships were returned, but the next portion was coming to Italy. We're just having these cars... I don't know what we're gonna do with them, but we're not giving them to smugglers. There are much more such issues. Well, first of all, you have to start. And, of course, publicise the proceedings concerning the organizers of this action, instigators, organizers, i.e., directly speaking, officials of the Belarusian state who attacked the Polish territory. This procedure should have been conducted long ago. Not much, there should be evidence to be collected, e.g. in the form of procedural statements, i.e. statements made procedurally by those who were really a blind tool here. Because that's not what they were promised when they were recruited to cross the Polish border. Next line. It can't be like we're going to give in. Some kind of delusions and suggestions. Please note what happened in Usnarz Górny. It started in August, I don't remember the exact date, but somehow they started talking about the group. Well, the idea of a group of refugees was first used, and then it devalued. Who supposedly wanted to cross the Polish border. I understand that if you want to cross the border illegally, you do it in the dark, away from the human habitat and, above all, away from the borderers, and quickly. You don't build camps near the border, in the light of day, near our bordermen. Because what does it have to do with crossing the border? It was the theater, it was the first act of the show. Directed by Minsk. Contractors: immigrants from the countries of North Africa and the countries of the Middle East. And we were the viewers. And some of the viewers were stunned, and they thought it was reality. Until now, this first act, which was based on the simplest human feeling, on pity... Pity for the children, pity for that cat who walked 5,000 kilometers from Afghanistan... that's what it was all about. So far this feeling is being used, not at the border itself, because the state of emergency has been introduced and the stage of mercy is slowly ending. Somewhere, it just sounds. Now in the same Usnarz we have the next stage. That's a fresh line. Coordinated groups, with tools provided by Belarusians, attack the axes, attack Polish forces, attack Polish soldiers. This is the next step. Here we are no longer based on mercy, here we want to create chaos and fear, other feelings. The question is, how are we gonna react? Yeah, that's right. It's in this bill. The question is, will there be a third stage and what it might be? That's what our services are for, to get ahead of it. But I think it's gonna be stage three. It will be as long as it does not become financially and politically viable for Belarus. What's our reaction? She should be calm, but consistent. I think what's proposed in this bill is appropriate. Of course, I will vote in favour. It's just a pity that some of the gathered here have given in to this planned, emotional, little of that, voting against a tool that is relatively most... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska- Stanecka: Mr. Senator, 10 minutes.]] Yes, sir. ... He's voting against a tool that's relatively effective, which means he wants to vote... There's a motion to reject the bill. I can understand those who have tabled amendments, but of course this is excluded from voting against. However, I propose that we vote in favour of a proposal for adoption without amendments for two reasons. Firstly, the firmness and unity of the House will be shown, and that also matters, she is being watched outside. And secondly, the bill will speed up its entry into force. Here time also plays an important role, because, as I said, we do not yet know whether this second stage is the final stage. I therefore call once again for the adoption of a law without amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u172	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jack Bogucki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u173	Mrs. Marshal! General! High Izbo! For several months we have been observing the situation on the Polish border, in this war. I use the word "war" because there is no other word to use here. Senator Czerwiński was talking about two stages. I would point out that there have already been several views, that there have been several methods for the Belarusian services to act, to use immigrants to achieve their goals. Let's take a look at where it started. Our Border Guard, our soldiers, our police have collided with the situation maybe not so tragic, but similar to the one that happened after 17 September 1939. On the one hand, immigrants brought by Belarusian services, and on the other hand activists, politicians, unfortunately also journalists who challenge bandits, using words that should never fall against a Polish soldier, the Polish service defending the border. And in that situation many of you, the State of opposition, were on the side of those who, like the Stalinists on 17 September, attacked Poles on the other side. [[You're not exaggerating, are you, Senator?]] They were attacked without realizing that the Lukashenka regime was only meant to have riots on our side that could be used there to use weapons to achieve their goals. The second stage was the moment when it was proposed by the government to introduce a state of emergency. And again, what's the emergency? Isn't the servants doing well? But how can they cope if, on the one hand, they had refugees supported... introduced by the Belarusian service, and on the other hand, those I was just talking about, attacking, running with backpacks, commercials that didn't know what was going on. [[Voice from the room: How am I supposed to vote for this bill if...]] Was that also true of those who thought that the state of emergency was unnecessary? He was needed to calm the situation both at the border and around the border to seal the border and its surroundings. Someone here said that illegal crossing of borders, even the most guarded, happened and would happen. But in order for the services to perform their duties properly, they must at least have internal security in Poland. And it wasn't there. And then there were more voices. Maybe not like at first to receive, to let everyone in, because we are a country that often needed help, etc., but such: to receive and send away. But where? Country of origin? After all, most of these people do not have documents and it is not known which country they should be sent back to. Well, where is it? Belarus? Who would take them? How do you legally send them back to Belarus? How would extradition be possible after the party? Where? Nowhere? Next stage The use of children. The children of Michałów. Where'd they go? What happened to them? But no one asked where their parents were. My parents were with them. Someone's been talking about this before. Here, too, the history of 1939 is reminiscent. That's what the Soviets used in the nearby Grodno... [[Voice from the room: Are you crazy?]] ...as a living weapon. Don't you have enough imagination to understand that you don't negotiate with terrorists? I'm not talking about terrorists as immigrants... This is also possible, but I am talking about the terrorism of the Lukashenka regime. There's no way to accept them, because if there were 30 attempts to cross the border a day and then 300 and from a few hundred to a thousand, then we'd have tens, maybe hundreds of thousands. That's not why every country assumes that terrorists can't be negotiated... This is not a despondent, inhumane act, but a result of the imagination of the state. They know that one retreat involves hundreds more if not thousands of victims. The victims, which are the result of those who use these methods, notice that they are effective. I am convinced that if it were so that if children were to appear in the group, there would be different ways of doing things, then there would be children in each group. Maybe they'd even be kidnapped and forcefully brought to this border to arouse our pity. We need to be aware of this as politicians. We know how difficult decisions are. And now the stage of construction of the dam. What do you expect? Construction permits? The first neighbour of this barrier will be the Lukashenka regime. According to the Code of Administrative Procedure, neighbours, i.e. Belarus, would have to be asked for permission, informed of their intention to carry out the investment and presented the construction project. Do you really not understand that, in the case of military operations, in the case of weapons, in the case of building such devices, information cannot be made publicly available for this simple reason, that it would first be available to those who want to break those dams who want to overcome these dams and find a way to break what will arise on this border? I think that's naivety, too, because I can only believe in naivety and not in the deliberate action of anyone at these successive stages of history, which is also happening at the border of my constituency, in Podlasie. Do you really at any of these stages that I was talking about, the behavior of those who had a different opinion, who thought that we should show more empathy, more openness to immigrants... Haven't you already pulled out of this? Haven't you already backed out to take them all in? Haven't you already withdrawn from this and now you think that it is important to protect the Polish border that the border should be protected? Didn't you come to that conclusion? Well, you were wrong every time. Therefore and in this case I call for a little more imagination. Without this barrier in the long run, it will be too much to involve our services in order to protect this border. This is the only solution and any allegations of this type, that it will be an investment without social supervision, are completely impossible. It is as if we wanted all information concerning the Polish army's weapons, equipment and methods used in the event of war to be published and accessible to everyone. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u174	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Mroz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u175	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Invited guests! For several hours now, we have been discussing this law, and de facto the idea behind this law, namely the idea of building an effective barrier that will protect our borders. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to ask for peace in the room. Excuse me, Mr. Senator.]] And today, after these few weeks of aggression on the part of Belarus, on the part of Lukashenka, with whom we met as a state, even the opposition says: yes, we must guard this border, yes, the border is to be tight, yes, we must appreciate those officers of the Border Guard, soldiers, police officers who defend this border. At first, a little bit different was the narrative, but I appreciate that you changed the narrative. However, all the time, and this sounded in the speech of Senator Bosacki, you say: well, the border is to be tight, but we are against the construction of the wall. None of you have told us how to ensure the integrity of the border if you do not build this fence, fence, wall, barrier, well, there are various kinds of terms here. And it's not our idea, ladies and gentlemen. As Minister Wąsik said, such safeguards are in different places in the world. That's what Americans do. Joe Biden, who came to power, those dams or those fences that are on the American-Mexican border, didn't undress. Besides, they began to arise much earlier, even before Donald Trump's presidency. And unfortunately, practically all of Europe is engulfed in this experience from 2015. So that not only Slovenia, Croatia, Austria, but also Spain, because of different conditions, in these 2 compartments in Africa, as well as Greece, also other countries, such as Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia, which also build such fences. Because there is no other effective way of protecting ourselves from this migratory pressure that is today. And this, of course, is still the case for the conscious and deliberate action of Lukashenka. And this migratory pressure, in my opinion, over the next few years for various reasons... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to ask...]] ...will increase in Europe. We have as if an additional argument to protect ourselves, and this is about the irresponsible actions of the Belarusian authorities, who are trying to use migrants as a certain demographic weapon, as Erdoğan did until the agreement was reached. But we also don't know for how long... We know the impact this has had on the Balkan countries, Italy, Greece. And yet another argument against the construction of the wall, which you claimed was expensive, that there would be fraud, that it misrepresents itself. That's what Senator Lover said. That... one of the senators here paid attention to environmental aspects. And we heard that PiS didn't do anything, so you don't believe we're gonna build this wall properly. Is this wall expensive? Is it gonna cost a lot? Yeah, 1.5 billion zlotys is a lot of money in the state budget. But we don't have a choice. Safety costs money. No one would forgive Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, no one would forgive Minister Kaminski if someone crossed this border illegally and would be a terrorist and would blow up in Warsaw. Then you would only be criticizing, asking why our services were not effective. Yes, security costs money, and you have to bear this expense from the state budget. Does the wall ring a bell? Well, sure, but, as I said, unfortunately, we live in times where such walls arise, such fences arise, such fences arise. I hope that he will be, as Minister Maciej Wąsik said here, to a large extent electronic, not so much as to say, physically, although probably on the episodes he will be, and as little as possible will be associated with this Berlin Wall. Although Israel's experiences indicate I'm aware that this is a completely different situation. I would say that it was only now that the physical setting of the wall guaranteed safety. If these walls were not effective, they would not be created anywhere, but they are created, because it is a great guarantee of effectiveness. Didn't we work out, and are we gonna build that wall? I'm talking about the rulers. Ladies and gentlemen, this is, of course, a policy of such poor quality. Poland is developing, investment is going. I'm just going to give you two of those flagship investments that we promised and that we're doing. Construction of the Swine crossing in Świnoujście This was repeatedly promised by Prime Minister Donald Tusk and was never realised. We promised this, and today this investment is coming to an end... [[Voice from the room: And how much money does the country...]] Ladies and gentlemen... [[Voice from the room: How much money for the whole thing, Mr. Senator...]] The second such investment, of course, is the excavation of Vistula Mierzieja, which is also going in full steam and we will be able to implement this investment efficiently by 2023. And I believe that... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. I'm sure it'll be quicker when it's quiet in the O.R.]] I also believe that we will build this dam efficiently, it is in the interest of the Polish state. You can always multiply doubts, arguments. I would like to make it clear that there is currently no other method of effective security. In times like this, we live in bad times, because no one builds these fences for the very idea, for the pleasure itself. We had open borders and we want these borders to be open, but we cannot allow anyone to cross the borders of Poland without any control. We are not able to put a soldier, a border guard, every meter, the only possibility is to build some barrier, some electronic fence, some physical fence, which will ensure the integrity of the border, not only the Polish one but also the EU one. I hope that in the Senate there will be a majority, 51 senators who will support it, because it is in the interest of Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u176	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u177	Mrs. Marshal, thank you very much. High Senate! I'm gonna say 30 seconds because everything's been said. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to address those who are watching us. In just a few days 5,000 982 signatures of activists and activists were collected. I'll give you a list of these signatures, Marshal of the Senate. I will read the content of the appeal, which was addressed to the Senate and the Polish Sejm. We demand to stop the construction of the wall on the Polish border with Belarus. Building a wall will not solve the migration crisis in Europe. Almost PLN 2 billion on his posture could be used by the government, for example. to finance a failing health service. Poland must respect international law and human rights. We want to live in a country that builds bridges of agreement, not separates itself from the world with a high wall. 5,000 982 activists and activists. And these are, Mrs. Marshal, the signatures, I'm putting them on your hands. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u178	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Marcin Bosacki. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u179	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! I wouldn't have taken the floor if it wasn't for the honorable Senator Marshal Pęk to say my humble name, calling my speech shameful. What I'm trying to say is, if Senator Pop says something like that about me, if he uses the word "honest," it means I did something right. I find it an honor that Mr. Pop, Marshal, Senator, said so. I'd like to answer him about three brief cases. First of all, I thank him for repeating my appreciation for the Border Service officers, for those who actually defend our eastern border against violent groups. It's a nice gesture on his part that he repeated my appeal and thank you. However, I am concerned, and this is the second point, that I have not repeated my words of condemnation to those who give orders to throw into the woods, to the frost of mothers and children. [[Applause]] I think we're both on our way. At least this is the result of numerous examples shown on television, once public, today party, of the presence of Mr Marshal Pop in the Catholic temples of Christian ethics. Repeating my condemnation of such acts would confirm that Marshal Pęk is also guided by Christian ethics. Such repetition of my condemnation of such acts would confirm that the Marshal of Pęk is also guided by Christian ethics. Finally, thirdly, Mr. Marshal Pęk called for unity, saying that only a united nation under a united leader can resist this real assault or attempted hybrid assault on the part of Lukashenka. No. We say this: there are things that we believe must be done and which government is doing, which is protecting the border. But there are things he does either too late or chaoticly or in an amateur way, or he doesn't do them at all and doesn't protect that border. The border will be protected only when Europe, the West will build the means of pressure on Lukashenka, so that it will not be profitable for him to continue sending these groups of desperate people from the Middle East to Poland and Lithuania. And the reason why the government doesn't do it again is because the government today doesn't have any international alliances capable of building such a coalition, because the government of PiS has argued with everyone, is internationally alone, and therefore weak, impotent. And why are we against the wall? Well, we've already told you that. Because every multi-billion-dollar investment in PiS is mainly used to waste public money and embezzlement, and it will serve the same purpose. One last thing, Mrs. Marshal. A few Senators of the PiS said I don't think so. It is not true that numerous walls, fences, barriers built in the Balkans stopped the wave of immigration in 2015, 2016. This is, of course, a fairy tale, as is a fairy tale of what one senator said, that the wall, which, I remind you, is to be built on less than half the length of the border with Belarus, will stop terrorist attacks in Warsaw. Well, it's so absurd that it's hard for someone who has any idea of state security to come up with it. No, it's not. Of course, the great wave of immigration blocked not a hundred and dozen kilometers of fence built, because it is not a wall, on the Hungarian-Serbian border, other countries did not build it, contrary to all the fairy tales you told. Only such a mixture, a combination of stick and carrot to Erdoğan, who then let go of this wave of immigrants. And you know who did it? Two very beloved politicians. One is Donald Tusk and the other is Angela Merkel. They're the ones who forced Erdoğan to close the cock with immigrants. And the same thing has to be said for Lukashenka, only you have to use a lot more stick than for Erdoğan. Once again, I call on the High House to reject this harmful project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u180	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the sake of order, I inform you that Senators Ryszard Śvilski, Alexander Szwed, Janusz Pęcherz, Benjamin Godyla, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Janusz Gromek, Beata Małecka-Libera, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Joanna Sekuła, Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka presented their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. [[I've put it together...]] Senator Halina Poor... [[Yes.]] She did, too, yeah. Excuse me, Senator. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senators Wadim Tyszkiewicz, Jacek Bury, Marcin Bosacki and Marek Komorowski. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill under consideration will be held today after the break, which will be announced in a moment. I also have a question about the legislative proposals. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? Thank you. As legislative proposals have been submitted, I ask the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I now inform you that the vote on the bill under consideration will be held after an hour's break, which... [[Voice from the room: Why an hour?]] [[Voice from the room: until 5:30 p.m.]] By 5:30. I'm about to schedule a recess until 5:30. [[Voice from the room: Until 5:00 p.m....]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u181	Attention, communiqué. Ladies and gentlemen, the communication: the joint meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the examination of applications submitted at the 30th Senate meeting for the Law on the Construction of State Border Security will be held today in room 217 at 16.55. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 35 to 18 minutes 04]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u182	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators! The Committee on Budget and Public Finance has prepared a report on the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and some other laws. As announced earlier, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by this item and considered as item six of the agenda. If I don't hear any objection, I think the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. At the same time, I would like to inform you that you received a letter from Marshal Witek asking for the vote of 5 draft laws, which we will proceed in order, by Thursday afternoon. I have accepted this request, so that I should warn you that on Thursday afternoon, once these points have been discussed, it will be possible to vote. These are the laws: on the tax on natural persons, on VAT, on the Wielkopolska Uprising, on sport and on the mining of hard coal. We are returning to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Law on the Construction of the Security of the State Border. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is available in print No 538 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Mark Komorowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u183	Well, the marshal was alone, alone. [[We'll be fine.]] Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Additional report by the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the Law on the Construction of the Security of the State Border. At the additional meeting, the motion to reject the bill was not accepted, the ratio of votes: 7:8. The motion to adopt the law without amendments was not accepted either, the ratio of votes: 8:8. As regards the amendments, Amendments 4 and 16 of the table, which was discussed at the committee meeting, were withdrawn. The other amendments were accepted, with amendment 13 being modified and amended in the report. So much for work. As for the printing of the report itself, this amendment 13 is not mentioned on the front page, but it is simply... The legislator asked me to point out that she's not here by mistake. This amendment 13 is in this table. [[Thank you very much, Senator...]] So much for the additional report.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u184	Thank you kindly. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would like to remind you that the conclusions were made by Senators Wadim Tyszkiewicz, Marcin Bosacki and Jacek Bury during the discussion. I would remind you that your applications were withdrawn by Senator Jacek Bury, point 4 in point III in print No 538 Z, and Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, paragraph 16 in point III in print No 538 Z. Do any of you senators want to uphold your withdrawn applications? No. We therefore proceed to the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on the amendments tabled will be held if the previous proposals are rejected. We proceed with the vote on Senator Marcin Bosacki's motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 99 senators voted, 47 for, 51 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 1]] In the face of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the proposal of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions to adopt the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 47 for, 52 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 2]] In the face of the rejection of the proposal for rejection of the law and of the proposal for adoption of the law without amendments, we shall proceed to vote on the amendments tabled. Will you allow me to read only the numbers or read the whole justification? [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]] Attention, amendments 1 and 6 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 53 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 3]] Amendments 2 and 15 should also be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 53 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 4]] Amendment 3. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 53 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 5]] Amendment 4 has been withdrawn. Amendment 5. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 for, 46 against, one abstention. [[Voting No 6]] Amendment 6 has already been voted on, so we are voting on Amendment 7, whose vote will rule out the vote on Amendment 8. Amendment 7. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 52 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 7]] Amendment 9. Who's in favour? Turn on the machine, please. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 53 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 8]] Amendment 10. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 52 for, 46 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 9]] Amendment 11. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 53 votes, 45 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 10]] Amendment 12. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 53 votes, 45 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 11]] Amendment 13. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 53 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 12]] Amendment 14. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 53 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 13]] Amendment 15 has already been voted out. Amendment 16 has been withdrawn. So we have concluded the vote on the amendments. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 52 for, 46 against, 1 Senator abstained. [[Voting No 14]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the Construction of the State Border Security. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u185	We proceed with the review of item two of the agenda: the law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 513 and the report of the Commission In print No 513 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u186	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Report from the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Law on the revision of the Law on the Functioning of Coal Mining and certain other laws adopted by the Sejm on 1 October 2021. After considering the law at the committee meeting on 6 October, the committee requests that the law be adopted without amendment. There were 4 votes in favour, 1 against, 5 senators abstained. Reason. The situation in the market for energy raw materials, the European Union's climate policy and the global economic recession caused by the Coronavirus pandemic have put the continued stable functioning of the mining industry at risk. It was therefore decided to continue to optimise and modify the existing rules for the operation of the hard coal sector. The main objective of the project is to amend the provisions of the Act of 7 September 2007 on the functioning of coal mining, hereinafter referred to as "the Act', which extends the period of disposal of mining companies' assets to the company dealing with decommissioning and extends the period of entitlement of employees of mining companies to benefit from possible benefits. The necessity to continue restructuring the Polish hard coal mining sector is largely due to the long-standing difficult situation in the international coal market. According to the assumptions of Poland's energy policy until 2040, which was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 2 February 2021, Poland will undergo an energy transformation. On the basis of this energy policy, Poland will pursue a low-carbon economy by implementing a fair energy transition, developing renewable energy sources and improving energy efficiency and improving air quality. Failure to implement the restructuring process and consequently the collapse of coal companies could result in very serious socio-economic repercussions in Upper Silesia. The most important ones are among others. inability to fulfil financial obligations, threat to the energy security of the country, social consequences of bankruptcy, broadly understood consequences for coal business co-operatives. We're gonna go a little further, 'cause here... Sources of funding. The proposed amendments to the Act, which would restore the possibility of transferring non-productive assets together with employees between 2021 and 2023, will have financial consequences for the state budget in the total amount of PLN 2 billion 93 million in the years 2021 to 2027. This amount consists of: an increase in the level of expenditure from the State budget to finance the restructuring of employment, tasks carried out during the liquidation of mines and the repair of mining damage caused by the movement of the liquidated mining plant and subsidies from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. The estimated costs of the restructuring process related to the transfer of mine assets in 20212023 together with employees to the Company for the Restructuring of Mines include expenditure for a total amount of PLN 2 billion 49 million, of which mining and processing leave is PLN 1 billion, one-off payment of cash, PLN 164 million, physical liquidation of mines PLN 669 million, repair of mining damages PLN 193 million, compensatory pensions PLN 1.1 million, and subsidies from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management PLN 20 million. According to the assumptions, 1 000 371 people will benefit from one-off cash checks and 2 000 348 people will benefit from mining holidays. In total, this includes 3,000 719 people. The cost of one-off cash checks will be PLN 164 million 520,000. These amounts may be amended at the verification stage for workers applying for mining leave, leave for employees of the coal processing plant and one-off cash checks. The impact assessment shows the impact of the project on the public finance sector in 20212027, which on the expenditure side shows an increase of PLN 9 billion 354 million, of which budget expenditure is PLN 8 billion 245 million, subsidies from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management PLN 1 billion 109 million. The measures introduced by the proposed law constitute authorised State aid, the scope of which is defined in the Council Decision of 10 December 2010 on State aid to facilitate the closure of uncompetitive mines. The update of the aid budget as well as the extension of the aid for the period 2024 and 2027 must still be notified in the European Union. The solution contained in the draft law was subject to public consultation during discussions with the social side during the agreement on the content of the social contract. Such a social agreement was concluded with the social side. To the Company for Restructuring of Mine will be transferred, if I recall correctly, two mines, a mine, a room and a mine, and later a mine, a supper. The extinction of production in the remaining coal mines will take place one by one, i.e. in 2028 will end the operation of the mine The last mines will be operational in 2049. I'm asking you to accept the bill without any amendments, as proposed by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u187	Thank you, Senator. Now the senators will report from a place that lasts no longer than a minute of questioning. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question. In the last part, you mentioned that this issue was the subject of consultation with the social side, that is, the trade union side. [[Yes.]] I'd ask you to clarify that information. Has this particular project been consulted with the mining trade union headquarters or not? Were there any comments, or was it an uproar of these agreements, so there were no specific comments? That's it. That's it. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u189	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u190	In answer to this question, I will say that there was a social agreement on the transformation of the coal mining sector and selected transformation processes of the Silesian province, hereinafter referred to as the social contract, signed by all social parties, i.e. trade unions operating in coal mines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u191	Thank you. Now I have questions for you about what I heard in the explanatory memorandum. This bill was prepared a few months ago. [[Yeah, by the government.]] For some time now, there has been an increase in oil, natural gas and coal prices. Can you tell us what's going on in this situation? Doesn't this increase in the price of coal change the situation, doesn't it change the liquidation decision that was taken?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u192	I don't think we should take that decision back. This decision is and will be. Coal prices are subject to this sineoid, once they're high, once they're low, you don't know when the hill will fall and when the hole will fall. We are not prepared to protect ourselves from such price fluctuations. We have deep-sea mines with fixed extraction costs and we cannot break these costs even in a very difficult economic situation. Let me just remind you that in 2020 in May the price of coal in ARA ports was $47 per tonne, now it is $ 234. But that doesn't mean that we can shape the amount of coal we can extract in any way, because we have one, not another mining front, and we can't increase it overnight.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u193	Thank you. Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u194	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask you about the amount. The impact assessment shows an amount of PLN 8 billion 245 million. It is about expenditure from the state budget related to the entry into force of the amendment of the law in the total amount of just PLN 8 billion 245 million. I'd like to ask you how much this amount... What part of this amount concerns mines that were liquidated before 2018 and what kind of mines that will be destroyed in the future, those 4 mines that you mentioned.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u195	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u196	I'm not gonna answer that specific question right now because I'm not an analyst, and I don't have the kind of knowledge the ministry has. Budget expenditure amounts to PLN 8 billion 245 million for the period 2021 to 2027. And that amount is probably already that target amount.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u197	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you, Senator. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of State Assets has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Would Minister Maciej Małecki like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki: Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u198	Dear Marshal, Dear Senators! Here you spoke very precisely, Senator rapporteur. I would like to remind you that the Act is the first step in implementing the agreements that were concluded with the social side after long negotiations, I am referring here to the agreement of 28 May this year. And this bill doesn't introduce new solutions. This law is based on an already functioning mechanism for the transfer of mines to the SRK in Bytom and concerns additional mines which can be transferred to the SRK from the date of entry into force of this law until the end of 2023. The amounts that have fallen from this place from the Senator rapporteur's mouth are appropriate. And this is the continuation of a process that was started many years ago, a flexible response to the situation in Silesia. I'm going to refer to what's happened with the prices. The situation here is that it is impossible to increase mining capacity immediately without investment. As we all know, in recent years there has been no increased demand for coal, rather the opposite trend. But I also stress that mining companies have long-term coal contracts already concluded some time ago and sell coal at prices that have been negotiated in previous years. That's the case. On behalf of the government, I ask you to accept the bill. I would add that the project has been submitted to the OMC, which will request notification from the European Commission. But let me stress once again that we are operating within the same mechanism, we are not changing this mechanism law, we are only opening an additional time window for subsequent mines and securing money for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u199	Thank you. At present, senators may ask no more than a minute of questioning to the representative of the government, the Minister. Senator Jackowski volunteered.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have this question related to the European Union summit held in December 2020, i.e. 10 months ago, where one of the decisions was to agree to increase the climate targets, to reduce CO2 by 55% by 2030. Please tell me how this decision of the Polish government For some, it was a surprise that the Polish government so easily agreed to it. It was accepted in the environment of miners, mining workers and the energy sector. Did this affect the process of negotiations on the extinction of coal and coal mining in Poland? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u201	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u202	Dear Senator, let me remind you that the agreement negotiated with the trade union party on 28 May is not about 2030, but about 2049. It is clear that without building a stable power base, there is no question of eliminating coal-based mining and energy. This year I'm going to give you an example of this. Despite the installation of higher windmill power... The first six months were much less windy, and you can see that this energy was less. We must have a stable basis for energy production, resistant to the whims of the weather. And that's why we're talking to the social side about 2049, not 2030. [[I'd like to ask. May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u203	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u204	But I don't really understand. Yeah, well, we're hearing about cutting off mining. The increase in this reduction to 55% occurred as if during this long-term process. He's made up of a lot of phases. We know that there were more dramatic and less dramatic tensions. This is not a new situation. I'm not talking about the negotiations over the last few months, I'm talking about the whole process. Now the Minister is talking about 2049, but the Union has accelerated in terms of reduction, because the final objective is, as I understand it, 2050. This is going to be the year of zero CO2 emissions. And this first target, by 2030, has been dramatically increased, because previously assumed, it seems, 40% That's 15%. less. And how does this affect this process of restructuring Polish mines? Because it's 2021, we're only 8 years old. This is a very short time, so I'd like to ask you to...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u205	Thank you very much, Senator. Let me remind you of the time limits of 1 minute per question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u206	Let me repeat: there is no question of eliminating mines beyond what we present today. Coal-based power plants cannot be decommissioned, coal-blocks cannot be converted into unstable sources in this perspective. There is simply no physical possibility to produce a suddenly stable energy base without conventional energy. These comments were taken into account during the negotiations. And that's, I think, the cloud of the matter. The aim is to preserve the competitiveness of the Polish economy and protect the wallets of Poles. So these are the goals that we have in the negotiations. Let me stress once again: without stable energy sources, the economy cannot be switched to another power supply. I think we all know that expenditures, which are needed by Polish energy... These changes, which are quite intense, result, among others. from the age of our energy assets, as well as from external requirements. But there are no concessions beyond what is reasonable and feasible. At the same time, we make sure that this does not harm the Polish economy.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u207	Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u208	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I will repeat this question that I have addressed to the Senator of the rapporteur. If the Minister is able to answer, I ask for an answer and if not, I will ask for a written reply. In the Impact Assessment, we have information that expenditure from the state budget related to the entry into force of the amendment will amount to a total of 8 billion 245 million. What part of this amount concerns the decommissioning of mines put into liquidation before 2018, and what part of this amount is involved in those mines that we will be putting out between 2021 and 2023?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u209	There are two components here. In the case of the mines we are talking about today, those that will enter this time window opened by us by this law are the amount of 2 billion 29 million, in turn for those for whom there is a continuation, there are 6 billion 216 million.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u210	Thank you. Minister, I have a call for you... Oh, there you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u211	Yes. Minister, I have such questions. The social contract between the government party and the trade union organisations contains 2 entries, the first one relates to the establishment of a team in the mine Bielszowice, which will verify, analyze coke coal on the mine, and the second one concerns, among others, the social contract. that there will be some flexibility in approaching the order of closure of the mine, and that will depend on what coal is, when, what price, etc. And here's my question: will you analyze, encourage or consider re-talking with the union party about the fact that prices are very high and it pays to use our coal rather than to import it from abroad? That's the first one. And will you continue your policy or do you have your own policy on the use of coke coal, which is included on the strategic list of the European Union as a strategic raw material? These are specific questions and I ask for specific answers, if not now, then I will ask for written answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u212	You asked Senator Tobiszowska a question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u213	Dear Senator, I think we can say here that there is a constant dialogue and constant contact with the social side. But also where this is possible within the legal framework and where cost-effectiveness is, every opportunity to earn by mines is used. If this answer needs to be further developed, of course the senator will receive it in writing. [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u214	There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u215	Therefore, I will ask, because this is specifically about my mine, the mine Bielszowice, which has coal in the amount of almost 50%. So the question is quite concrete: will this coal be used? If so, the team that works there analyzes the coal... And let me honestly say that these attempts to try this coal have been a lot, and for years these tests have been happening, so as to the fact that this coal is there, it's just certain. And that's why I have a question because the previous answer doesn't satisfy me. So how are you going to verify the order of these mines now, where is the coke coal, where is the energy of high quality, etc., etc.? I'm asking because some inaccuracies in my feelings have emerged. So I'm asking you how you're going to verify it now.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u216	Senator, speaking for now... well, for now, I mean at the moment, there are only two mines, room II and jastręb III. Other mines, for the moment, are not provided in this window, which is to direct to... [[So I'm asking you to answer in writing. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u217	I'm writing you down. Good. Now... I wanted to ask you a question at the end, but... Minister, the same issue: 8 billion 200 million grants for this operation. I also heard that the price of coal has now increased by six times. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. Am I right? From 400 to... [[From 50 to 234...]] How much? [[Fifty bucks cost me.]] [[50 bucks cost, now it's 234, but these are spot prices...]] Ah, 234. [[These aren't fixed prices.]] I get it, spotty. But the price of coal went up... [[She went upstairs. Yes.]] I'm not gonna... [[Five times.]] Five times. I want to ask you if this will have an impact on these decisions, let's assume, in terms of reducing funding from the budget. Well, if the mine makes more money, I guess you could add less from the budget. And that's the first line. Two. You basically said no because there are long-term contracts. Good. Does this mean that there is absolutely no flexibility in this matter? Is there no flexibility? I'm a layman about the mines. That's why I'm asking. And one more question. How many coals do we import from Russia this year? We're digging and digging, it's not a secret to me, it's gonna take a lot of coal from Kaliningrad. [[Voice from the room: Contracts...]] How many coals have we brought in from Russia this year?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u218	Dear Marshal, We're talking companies, mines that go to the SRK, and this is where we're not going to continue our work. These aren't mines that work at full speed. I will stress once again that if a contract was concluded between two entities some time ago, one is a mine that sells coal, the other is an entity that buys coal, and they have agreed for a certain time and a price, it is both a risk and a duty for both parties. Some of these contracts were concluded at a time when coal was simply behind the heaps and there were no buyers. Then there was oversupply, and there was no demand. Today, the situation is the other way around. These prices, which the Senator rapporteur gave precisely, are those from spot markets, namely stock markets. That's the rate of the day, and someone signed a contract to be sure of a long-term fixed price, without stock fluctuations. And as for imports from Russia, coal to energy companies is not imported from Russia. This is a private market, which is outside the Polish energy industry which is in the hands of the State Treasury.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u219	Excuse me, Minister, but do you have any statistics? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki: Mr. Marshal, here...]] If you didn't know how much it was, I would have asked for a written reply. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki: Of course. That's the answer to the data that...]] According to the data you have. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki: That is the answer, of course, to the Marshal.]] Thank you very much. Mr. Senator... Oh, once again, Senator Swede, and then the Senator rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u220	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'd like to ask you a question like this. The extinction of mines is determined de facto, at least in part, by the requirements of the European Union's climate policy. I would like to ask what it's like in other countries. Does the Ministry know what it looks like to extinguish and adapt to climate policy in other countries, e.g. such as the Czech Republic Or Germany? Are they shutting down the mines too? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u221	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u222	Poland is in a different situation, our energy is based on coal and it is difficult to compare, so here there is no will to extinguish anything beyond measure. I'm gonna go back to what I was talking about, telling Senator Jan Maria Jackowski that he can't be replaced... We have a specific energy mix, and it can't be replaced by another power source if it's not stable. Each country has a different energy mix and different atmospheric conditions to produce different energy. Today we see that these sources, which were presented as modern, green, do not necessarily work in changing weather conditions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u223	Thank you. Senator Wojciech Piecha.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u224	I have here data from the Industrial Development Agency on imports and exports of coal in 7 months 2021. This import volume is 7.3 million t. Where'd you get it Colombia, the U.S., Australia, these are the coke coals we need to make coke, because there are the best coals, we have a little weaker and we have to mix it up. And Russia, Kazakhstan and the Czech Republic, coal from the Czech Republic is also coking coal. Exports, because we export coal, are 3.3 million t for these 7 months: Czech Republic, Austria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Hungary, Slovakia, Ukraine, Germany, Finland, Denmark. This is definitely energy carbon with the right parameters. If you add up these two ingredients, you'll find that 4 million t net imports of this carbon, for now, after seven months. That's the data.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u225	Thank you. Thank you, but I also expect a written reply from the Minister. Senator Dorota Tobiszowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u226	I have another question, Minister. I'd like to get the following information. How much coal we extract in Poland I mean 2021, those 10 months broken down into coal and coke? How much do we bring him in? Also in the same year, so that we have a comparison Is it broken down into coal and coke? And question three. How much coal do we need for our own use? In the context of what Senator Piech said: why are we bringing so much coal from abroad when we have ours? It's these three specific questions, it's about breaking into individual carbons.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u227	Mrs. Senator, of course we're gonna complete this, and you're gonna get that answer, broken down into the periods you asked for. [[All right, let's do it in writing. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u228	Thank you, Senator. Minister, so that you do not write twice, please also address me with the answer to this question, it is wider and better. Thank you, Minister... [[Voice from the room: I just don't know if I'll be there.]] Uh-huh. [[Voice from the room: I will.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Sekuła. [[Mr. Marshal, thank you for the vote...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Gentlemen, senators, please don't disturb the senator. [[Ślski, Ślski.]] I know who, I know, I know. I'm not going to trade, but I know who. There you go, Senator Sekuła.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u229	Minister, since much is written in the Act on the mode of transition to mining holidays, please tell me if there is an additional record of how workers will be activated from the mines that have been destroyed. Because there are very long mining holidays planned here, and it is known that such exclusion from the labour market is a factor that is very socially demoting, especially in mining communities. I'm a Sosnowiec resident, and we survived this process of mine extinction. Now that we know very well how demoting this society is, please tell me if this has been the subject of government work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u230	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u231	Dear Senator, this is a much broader matter concerning not only this law. This is the whole program for Silesia, which is being prepared, whether in the National Plan for Reconstruction, or in the Polish Łada there are solutions, financing it. This law concerns the transfer of mines to the SRK, financing it in such a way that as many people as possible can keep their jobs, and so that those who leave can obtain adequate financial security. The Silesian problem is seen and, as far as possible, new investments are proposed. This is, for example, the very activity of the SRK in the form of such remediation of the site, such as limiting the effects of the activity, which will allow for further investments, for some other activity in the area. You're touching a much wider matter than this bill. One bill wouldn't have protected it. This is the whole program for Silesia and a look from different sides, also for those who will somehow change their professional life outside this program. Although I will stress once again: in particular, this last time shows that there is no alternative to stable energy sources when no other such sources are developed. Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal, may I ask you a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u232	Senator Poor, and then you again. There you go. [[I just, Mr. Marshal, would like to ask you to answer the same question that Mrs. Dorota Tobiszowska asked not to report anymore, but to get an answer to that question.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki: Mr. Marshal, maybe I'll just send it, the answers to all these questions will be sent to your marshal.]] Good. But I have here a list of people who want answers in writing. I'll read it right away. Senator Sekuła. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u233	Minister, are there any material that you would be able to present to us as the Senate in connection with the work that you say is taking place in the field of social restructuring after the mines have been extinguished? I have experience because I worked at SRK and I know for a fact that SRK is not engaged in any social restructuring, because the main problem of SRK is securing and developing the mining assets. But there are no activities that have extra-math goals. And I would like to ask one more question: do these estimates referred to in the Act include potential debts of liquidated mines in the field of ZUS and tax charges? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u234	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u235	Mrs. Senator, I, speaking of the SRK, was talking about securing the estate, also in such a way that these excavated areas could be used as much as possible in the future, so that they would not be merely underground areas. As for the transfer of mines to the SRK, all areas of financing and commitments are taken into account. [[Thank you very much...]] [[And then there's the social restructuring. Can we get this material?]] Senator, this work is ongoing and, of course, all such decisions, including in the legal form, will be widely informed. But I was talking about this because to show that the problem of Silesia, the problem of securing jobs, social activity of people, does not apply to this law. And we are talking about very, very many fields of discussion of various ministries, about the use of resources that are at the disposal of the Polish state. This isn't even about passing one, the other, the third show today. More in answer to the senator's question, I present that this law cannot be applied to the entire Silesian program. We are talking today about using the same mechanism that has been in operation for years, for the next two years, until the end of 2023, about transferring further mines to the SRK, and the whole Silesian programme is much broader. [[We're talking about the year 2027.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u236	Good. Thank you very much. Senator Tobiszowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u237	Mr Minister, in view of what you have just said, that some investment activities are being undertaken in these areas, and we are talking specifically about Peace, and about Jastrzębi III, I would like to ask you specifically what investment activities are being undertaken in the area of Peace, which is being transferred to the SRK, and that is what we are talking about at this point, because this law is about Peace. What concrete actions, whether they are and whether the State in the Ministry has Do you have a plan for the development of these areas, the use of... I would like to ask you this question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u238	Dear Senator, let me stress once again that we are talking about this bill, about transferring mines to the SRK. Today I will not give concrete solutions for a particular place, because these are permanent actions in the form of a Programme for Silesia using funds that will be the responsibility of the Polish state in the coming years. And that's all I can say for today.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u239	Thank you. Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u240	Minister, you answer a lot of questions that are not related to this bill. I'll be honest with you, I understand. But I would also like to say that the law on the restructuring of hard coal mining is not separated from the whole complicated reality concerning not only mining but also Polish energy at all. That's why I have a question. I will immediately make it easier for the Minister to answer. I understand, of course, that the Minister for all the data, especially regarding this bill, does not have to be in his head, so I would ask you to provide this data in writing. I would like to ask what country, as a government in Poland for 6 years, you have made investments in restructuring, renovation, modernization and construction of new power lines. This is extremely important not so much in terms of this law as in terms of this law. This is why we are restructuring mining so that electricity not only from coal but also from other sources that you mentioned today can be used more widely, not only because of international requirements and those which we have accepted and signed as a country, but simply because of the sign of the time. So, in conclusion, the question is: what expenditures have you made on renovation, modernization, construction of new power lines over the past six years? [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u241	Mr. Senator, of course, as you said, I will answer this question in writing. I will also point out that transmission networks are the responsibility of Minister Piotr Naimski because of the separation of transmission infrastructure from generation. The distribution network is in our area, but of course we'll collect and pass it on. The transmission networks are the responsibility of Minister Naimski as a government representative for strategic transmission infrastructure: gas, electricity and oil.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u242	Minister, there are no more questions. [[I do. I do.]] Ah, Senator Tobiszowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u243	Minister, because this question may not have sounded exactly the way it should have been, I would like to get an answer, also in writing, to the question: whether you provide for a run in the Ministry I don't know how to say this, re-analysis of the social contract in relation to the fact that the price of coke, energy, is high? The point is that the market situation is quite different compared to the time when the social contract was signed, a year ago. That's what I'm talking about, and the answer to that question is, if not now, in writing. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki: Good.]] I ask you to examine the social contract as regards the order of closure of mines in relation to the new, current situation in the coal market.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u244	Okay, Senator. That's the answer you'll get.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u245	Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u246	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Why change the method of determining the amount of one-off cash check? It used to be dependent on the mine, and now it's kind of fixed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u247	These conditions have been negotiated with the social side in the area of these mines... that time, maybe I'll say.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u248	Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u249	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to ask you about protective measures, Minister. Here we have the possibility to go on mining leave, leave for employees of the ZPMW or benefit from a one-off cash check-in. I'd like to ask you: how much is estimated? If you know, please answer me if you don't, please answer me in writing. By 2020 was there, in terms of these three cover options, the use of mining leave, employee leave and one-off cash checks? By 2023, we have the 2 billion ahead. How much will be allocated to the individual protective measures?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u250	Mr. Senator, I'll start with what's going on in the future. We're predicting what's going on. Mining holidays: 2 000 348 people. 1 billion 1 million zł; one-off cash checks: 1 thousand 371 people. 164 million; physical liquidation: 669 million; repair of mining damages, and these are already the costs to be borne, not only personal: 194; compensatory pensions: 1 million. The rest of the predicted data relate to what is continued from previous years and is to be carried out until 2027: mining and processing holidays. 23 million zlotys; physical liquidation of 4 billion 588 million zlotys; repair of mining damages 483 million zlotys; compensatory pensions 216 million zlotys. In addition, the cash equivalents for persons entitled to the right to free coal from mines liquidated before 1 January 2017 are added. PLN 906 million. We'll give the back data to the senator in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u251	Thank you. Mr. Marshal, can I just ask you a question? Minister, I didn't mean the amount, but rather the scale, which is the number of employees who have been taken... Eventually, I'll ask for a written reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u252	As far as the future is concerned, I've listed these forecasts to the senator, and as far as back data is concerned, we'll send them.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u253	Thank you very much, Minister. That's all the questions. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki: Thank you.]] Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by the senators: Tobiszowska, Borusewicz, Poor, Sekuła, Szejnfeld and Sweden. Haven't I left out any of your senators? Good. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u254	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A long debate and we are talking essentially about mining, not about the bill that we are proceeding today, but it is not surprising because the subject matter is very important, important. This is not enough, it has been in public, political, legislative discussion for several decades. However, it is worth going back to the law and, in just one or two sentences, to say what it is about, and it is so de facto, in a very narrow sense, the application of the law has to be said. In relation to the subsequent laws of certain protection instruments, i.e. social benefits. These include, first of all, mining leave, leave for employees of a coal processing plant or a one-time check-in. I emphasize this because it is important to understand the mechanism of operation of mining restructuring in Poland at all. Similar solutions were made earlier, but on different terms. These principles are not only about the amounts, but also about the specific powers granted to workers, depending on the nature of their work in these mining plants and mines, but also about secundo, how long, etc. This law changes a lot in this regard, and therefore causes controversy and doubts. But because the whole process is important, it is necessary, even because we mining and, more broadly, energy in Poland need to reform, restructure, change, change, move whether you like it or not. It's modern, new, so-called. Green energy sources to join this global coalition for environmental protection, climate protection... Therefore, I will say that we really will not deny this law despite doubts and certain controversy. We will vote for it, although there are several solutions in it that we do not think are well defined, even to use the statement that they are not fair to the working environment of mines and mining plants. I will therefore be making amendments in this regard. He goes here, for example. on equalisation of the rate of social benefits granted once and currently proposed on the basis of this law. Here's the difference: before that, it was 75%. And now 80%. That's one thing. Secondly, this law does not cover workers who could not, not because of their own fault, benefit from the benefits This is the way it's supposed to be. The previous laws and now they cannot benefit from this proposed act. Therefore, the amendment will move towards a wider range of employees to be covered by the law. Also those who have not previously used these provisions and are not now covered by them. And the last point about the amendments. The amount has already been reported here, which will be allocated in total, of course For this whole process, i.e. over PLN 8 billion. It's not small money. As for the restructuring process, as I said earlier, there are doubts as to whether it is constructed well, whether it will be conducted well, etc. There must be knowledge about this. Where we make this law, that is, in parliament, in the Seym and in the Senate. Therefore, another amendment or one of the amendments I don't value them in terms of meaning and order. It will move towards requiring the Council of Ministers, Minister, to report once a year, by 31 March of the following year, on the implementation of this law. We need to know, first of all, if we're going in the right direction. Secondly, we need to know whether these changes are effective, if there is little efficiency in spending this money. That's a huge amount. And it can't be that it's only up to the executive body of the government. Parliament, the legislator, needs to keep up to date with information once a year can be regarded as a current process, whether it is worth spending it or not, to what extent and whether it does not need to be more flexible towards the whole process, so that it is much more effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u255	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u256	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It seemed that this point was different from the other points that we have in our order. It will not raise any broader discussion or questions, but after this series of questions You can clearly see that the problem is alive. And rightly so, because we are talking here about securing people who will have checks for mine extinction, but in fact we are also talking about the whole energy situation of Poland, about the whole energy policy. And I'd like to say a few words about that. Well, High Izbo, in 2008, Donald Tusk's government agreed to climate goals that were criticised in the Law and Justice environment. In 2013 I checked it out. At the Congress of Law and Justice, it was announced that after the Law and Justice came to power, the climate package would be denounced. In 2014 the government of the PO PSL agreed to increase climate targets and then it happened, it seems, to these... I don't remember right now, it was, like, 40% by 2030. At that time, in the environment of Law and Justice, this decision was criticised. In 2015 there were elections, there were slogans that we would not give up coal, coal is our national good, coal is the basis of Poland's energy sovereignty and any ideas that would consist in eliminating coal mining, that is, in fact, a hit in the entire economy and in all Poles, because this will lead to the loss of competitiveness of Poland's economy. I'm not going into details anymore, I don't want to be here to remind you what, who and when he said, including the most important officials in the country who spoke about it. Right now, we have this... And then there were such statements that the rising price of electricity was the consequence of the consensus expressed by the predecessors of the current government, that it was the issue of these emission quotas and that all of this was caused by it. From what I've already said, this situation is more complicated and complicated. But the fact is that, I think, at the moment, each of us sitting here is meeting with our constituents and listening to what it's like with these energy prices, why fuel is so expensive, why electricity is so expensive, and so on. Today, a penalty of EUR 1 million has been imposed on Poland for each day of operation of the Tour. This is also part of the whole energy policy. I don't want to comment on a decision that's come up, but it's starting to be a burning problem. I am talking about energy and ensuring the supply of electricity to households and industry at an appropriate level. As we know, in the meantime, there are drastic increases in electricity prices, perhaps not directly to individual consumers. And so it will be, it is announced, and the URE has spoken in this matter. But above all for wholesale customers, for industrial customers. It's gonna project on inflation, on prices, and on everything. Things are generally known, so I'm not going to develop them. High Izbo, I would like to say that we are now in a slightly different situation than it was a year ago when Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki at the EU summit unexpectedly agreed that it was a complete surprise to me For an increase of 15% climate targets up to 55% up to 2030. This caused a reaction in mining environments, in the environments of energy people. This is part of the fact that it is difficult to say that we are dealing with some long-term, thought-out energy policy that would be consistently implemented. High Izbo, I believe that the current situation in Europe Because high gas prices and problems with electricity are also beginning to apply to other countries of the European Union, and I anticipate this in the coming months, perhaps years, of the revision of the climate policy that has been imposed, of policies with these objectives. I don't want to get into a debate about the causes of climate warming and all that goes with it right now. I just want to say that Europe is absolutely losing its competitiveness on global markets at rising energy prices, and European consumers are experiencing an increase in gas prices. This increase is a surprise. Not only in Poland, but also in other countries of the European Union, they must react sooner or later and politicians will have to learn from it. Or maybe they won't learn from it. That's a good question. But I think pragmatism and some sense will prevail. I think there must be a balance between ideology, real life, social development and environmental protection. We need to find a good balance here again. And that is why I call on the Minister to take more courageous action in this area in the EU arena and to... This is already indicated in the statements of very important representatives of the Polish state who spoke on this subject, i.e. There have already been such signals that it will be necessary to verify the climate targets. I think this is a matter of strategic importance for the future of Poles. On the other hand, there is also respect for miners, for people who, under very difficult conditions, generally known... In fact, they are insecure about their future fate, because the various stages of the discussion on this subject and the different concepts appear. I personally regret that Minister Sobonia is not with us today. Minister Małecki, as I understand, represents the government at the moment, but does not directly supervise this segment of the Polish economy. [[Time's up?]] It's not over, Senator. Then you would have pointed out to me, I suppose, but maybe I'm wrong. [[Voice from the courtroom: Mr. Marshal is busy.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Mr. Marshal is looking at the phone...]] [[I've got a stopwatch here.]] [[That's right, I'm sorry.]] [[The voice from the hall: It's like basketball.]] I hope that this passage will be deducted from the time of the speech in accordance with the principle... I mean, there's plenty of time in the football game. [[Voice from the room: It's twenty-seven minutes.]] So, returning to the conclusions, because I am just concluding, I would like to say that now is, I believe, a good time to put energy problems in a clear, clear and consistent way in the EU. And in relation to people who work in Polish energy, thanks to which we are simply warm and... Well, we actually have everything, because the whole functioning of our civilization is based on energy. We should be very respectful. These people should be treated in a very serious way. And if there are any findings in the international or Polish forum, this should be done in a dignified and fair manner. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u257	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Tobiszowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u258	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! As Senator of Silesian soil, I feel obliged to take today's vote in this discussion. I would like to point out, Minister, that we have our energy resources, we have our coal. And as I hear in the European Union: green energy, all green... Of course, we would like to have clean air, I too, which I have lived in Silesia since birth, but we have to use something for energy mix. Something like coal. We've got coke carbon, we've got energy carbon. I ask that you also lean over all the technologies that mining institutes have prepared. We were talking about gassing coal once. We're talking about gassing the coal on the surface. Will the Ministry lean on the use of coal in this process? That's my question for you too, Minister. I ask you to be more decisive in the European Union. Not all countries have coal. We've got him. We voted here recently on windmills and other forms of green energy. Of course, I'm in favour, too, but this process is long-lasting. It'll be a few more good years if not a decade. or more before we can use windmills or other sources of green energy. So far, we've got our coke coal, our energy coal. And just as I asked you in my questions, I would also ask you that the answers given to me suggest a further policy in the Ministry of State Assets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u259	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senators of Poor, Swedish, Gromko and Tyszkiewicz made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I'm informing you... Please? [[I put it together, too.]] [[And I didn't.)]] Oh, there's been a mistake. So who's the Senator? [[Voice from the hall: Senator Sekuła has now submitted.]] Oh, good. So Senator Poor didn't, and Senator Sekuła filed. I'm so sorry. [[Talking in the O.R.]] It's all Senator Secretary's fault. [[Voice from the O.R.: Fire him.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] I would like to inform you that you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing by Senator Szejnfeld. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the legislative proposals put forward? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u260	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! Of course, I will ask for this bill to be adopted in the Senate without any amendments. Maybe I will refer to this proposal for the Council of Ministers to report annually on the implementation of this law. I would like to remind you that such a report is already submitted by the Minister of State Assets for the implementation of the budget part of 48 This is also examined by the Supreme Audit Chamber. The implementation of the budget in this part is the subject of deliberations and of the Sejm, and of the Senate. This is considered by the competent committees of the Sejm and the Senate. So it seems unreasonable to add another report of the same material, which will already be submitted by the government, and probably also the Minister of State Assets will act on behalf of the government. So let me stress once again that this area is under the control of both chambers of our Parliament. And I'm going to refer again to the 80%. negotiated for mining workers, which will be liquidated after the entry into force of this law, which will be transferred to the SRK after the entry into force of this law. Well, that was the result of talking to the social side. Such conditions have been established here and this is introduced into the law. On coal gasification, I will say that one of the points of the social agreement is to minimise the negative effects of the socio-economic transformation of the hard coal mining sector, to strengthen the energy system balance. And in these terms between the parties to the agreement there are points concerning whether coal gasification or these modern technologies. Such solutions are to be presented. But it's like a digression at the end. Of course, the senator will get an answer as well. Thank you once again for the debate, for the questions and again for the adoption of the law without amendments. Thank you very much. Of course, we will also refer to this at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u261	Thank you, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act on the establishment of the National Day of the Victory of the Wielkopolska Uprising. The text of the act is contained in print No 505, and the report of the committee In print No 505 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u262	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 4 October 2021, Marshal Elżbieta Witek handed over to the Marshal of the Senate a bill adopted by the Sejm concerning the establishment of the National Day of the Victory of the Wielkopolska Uprising. Mr. Marshal of the Senate sent this bill to our committee, and on 26 October the meeting took place. At the committee meeting, Mr Andrzej Dera, Minister of the President's chambers, presented the resolution because it was the legislative initiative of the President. The purpose of the Act of 1 October on the establishment of the National Day of the Victory of the Wielkopolska Uprising is to establish on 27 December a public holiday. The state flag will be raised on the buildings of the authorities and public administration on that day. This day isn't gonna be a day off from work. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, there was a debate, very substantive and beautiful, and there was a vote in which we voted unanimously. I would like to present the opinion of the committee. Well, on behalf of the committee, I ask the High Senate to adopt the attached draft resolution, i.e. to adopt the law on the establishment of the National Day of the Victory of the Wielkopolska Uprising. Since I am the rapporteur of our committee, I would like to present what we talked about to the people of Wielkopolska. I am, of course, a Senator from Krakow, but the bureau indicated that I should be the rapporteur, which is of course natural, because I was once an active actor and played Tom Gierusz in the famous TV series "The longest war of modern Europe." I could already, as a 30-year-old man, learn details about the Greater Poland Uprising. It was Mr. Stefan Bratkowski's script, and we talked about it very often. On behalf of our committee and all senators, I want to thank the Wielkopolska community because this law was proposed by the President thanks to the bottom-up action of the people of Wielkopolska. The chairman of our committee, Barbara Zdrojewska, mentioned to the minutes all the municipalities and cities that contributed to the creation of this law. There's no time for that here, but the state that's watching us can read it in Senate protocols. All I want to say is that the initiators of the bill and signatories included the Wielkopolska Independence Museum, the Institute of National Remembrance, the Poznań branch, the Wielkopolska Uprising Memorial Society, the Association of Municipalities and Districts of Wielkopolska, the Foundation of Kórnickie Plant and the National Museum in Poznań. 4,000 55 signatures were collected under individual and collective declarations and 3,000 254 online signatures of support. 163 resolutions of councils of all levels of local government units and individual declarations were received. There were also 45 resolutions of pedagogical councils of schools of all levels and declarations of individual directors. The City Council and the High Commune also called for a direct appeal on this matter. In response to these expectations, the President presented a legislative initiative. We ask that this bill be passed. As far as the Greater Poland Uprising is concerned, this was of course one of the most important breaks in Poland. It is about him that more representatives of the Greater Poland land or our historians will say about it. All I can tell you is that the Greatpolan raid and the fight... After Ignacy Paderewski's famous speech, the soldiers went on to fight, and after peace in Trevira, Greater Poland was officially incorporated into our country. And this uprising, Mr. Marshal, was of great importance to the newly formed Republic. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u263	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u264	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, you have presented the report well, but you have not said something that I think is important too. Namely, by which votes the project was supported. Did all the senators attending the meeting support this project? Because I think this is important information for the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u265	If Senator Jackowski review the protocol, he will notice his mistake, because I said that our resolution was voted unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u266	Thank you very much. No further questions. The bill was filed by the president. Mr Andrzej Dera, Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland, was authorised to present the President's position during parliamentary work. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the President? I'd like to invite the Minister to the stand.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u267	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As a citizen of Wielkopolska, I am honored to represent the President on this bill. I have just a few words to say, because Senator Fedorowicz spoke very carefully about the course of the committee meeting, about the project itself, about the idea of this project and about who brought this project. Here there is not much to say in a formal sense, but I would like to highlight once again that the celebration of the anniversary of the Greater Poland Uprising was a great dream for many, many years. Looking at the latest history of our country, in particular of the last century, it is difficult to imagine today a Republic without its origin and its consequences. If it weren't for this uprising, what would the Republic look like? And what was very important and what is outlined in the bill: it was a victorious uprising. This uprising actually led to the fact that the native lands of Greater Poland, which have been associated with our nation for centuries, with our statehood, returned to their motherland. Yet, we know history and we know that many things have taken place in peace treaties. And just like in Silesia, so in Wielkopolska, if it weren't for the break-up of Poles, if it weren't for the desire to return to the matrix, perhaps the Republic would have looked different. And what's important is that the uprising was, of course, extended to Greater Poland, but also to the land of what needs to be said, looking geographically at Lubuskie and Kujawsko-Pomorskie. So it had a wider range than today's Wielkopolska voivodship. I'm just going to talk about two aspects that show how well this uprising was organized. The first raids of Poles living in these areas took place before we had regained our independence. Before November 11th. Exactly, if I remember the dates correctly, then on 8 November in Jarocin and on 10 November in Ostrów Wielkopolski there were breakages of residents. Besides, those in Ostrow were called the Ostrowska Republic. There the population had had enough of the invaders, screamed, were rallies, announced that they were Polish lands, but it was not so prepared and coordinated that the decision was taken. Please pay attention to this. To wait for a convenient moment for this uprising to reach the entire Greater Poland. And only after what the senator was talking about here, after Paderewski's speech on December 27 started fighting, which ended in an absolutely military success. And I will say something else, which is also very important, I mean the huge influence of the Greater Poland troops on the Battle of Warsaw, huge, without these troops it was difficult to imagine a victory with the Bolsheviks in 1920. Wielkopolska had a huge influence on the shape of the Second Republic of Poland. Therefore, at the moment when the representatives of the Wielkopolska community came to the President with a petition to prepare such a draft for the establishment of a national holiday connected with the victorious Greater Poland Uprising, the President immediately decided during this meeting that he would prepare an appropriate bill. What I'm trying to say is that he's not complicated, it took about a week to prepare, and after a week, the project was brought to the Sejm. There's important information here, too. The senator asked how they voted during the committee meeting. I will tell you how this project was voted in the Sejm: this is unanimous. The Sejm unanimously adopted the Law on the establishment of the National Day of the Victory of the Wielkopolska Uprising on 27 December. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u268	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's query to the President's representative related to the item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No questions. Then thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u269	I only have one more piece of information. [[You're welcome.]] Minister Sellin asked me to. Since he was unable to get here, to reach the Senate, and this point was moved as far as the order of consideration is concerned, and is the third point, he asked me to read the government's brief position on the bill so that formal matters would be met. [[You're welcome, Minister.]] This is the position that was sent by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. I'll read this position. The Presidential bill on the establishment of the National Day of the Victory of the Wielkopolska Uprising assumes the establishment of the National Day of the Victory of the Wielkopolska Uprising on 27 December, at the same time indicating that this day will be a national holiday. In the explanatory memorandum to the project, the designer emphasizes the importance and impact of the Greater Poland Uprising on the fate of statehood and the formation of borders of the Republic of Poland, which is undoubtedly in favour of establishing the National Day of the Victory of the Wielkopolska Uprising on 27 December. The Polish Uprising on the pages of Polish history was recorded as a groundbreaking break of independence, culminating in a military victory. Undoubtedly, a military act so important to Poland deserves to be given the right rank in a special way. The Wielkopolska Uprising works perfectly in the local historical memory. It is important that it also becomes national and permanent in the awareness of our citizens. This was also served by the activities carried out in recent years by the Ministry of Culture, National Heritage and Sport in connection with the commemoration of the 100th anniversary of the Uprising in the framework of projects carried out with the support of the Multi-Summer Programme. In addition, it should be emphasized that the bill responds to the appeal of the organizations and units of the local government from Wielkopolska, in which they asked the state authorities to celebrate the holiday. In view of the above, the Council of Ministers welcomes the presidential draft law on the establishment of the National Day of the Victory of the Wielkopolska Uprising. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u270	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Janusz Błucherz will be the first to speak. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u271	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! Today we are discussing a law on the establishment of a state holiday, a special one, which does not seem to have a precedent in our national life. The very sound of its name is extremely important, and I get the impression that it introduces us to the pantheon of great Poles and their actions. However, regardless of my impressions, one thing is certain: today we are leaning over a great historical event, great for the Republic of Poland, for its independent existence. The Greater Poland Uprising. This is an important moment. You can't overestimate or underestimate its meaning. It is also a moment of satisfaction for this moment of history, without which a free, independent homeland would not have the shape that it should have and had. Ladies and gentlemen, I am a senator from the Jarocin, Pleszewski and Kali district, in historical terms of the special district, part of which was in the Prussian envoy and part of the Russian enlistment. I am of the land whose body has been torn apart by the possessors, and which through the insurgent act has been merged. The memory of the uprising to this day is alive among the inhabitants of the whole Wielkopolska. It is a home memory, a family memory, about fathers, sons, brothers, ordinary boys from the neighborhood who went to fight with the Germans in 1918. There was practically no family that wouldn't give up an insurgent out of their midst. It must be remembered that the Greater Poland Uprising was the truest common movement, it had a folk character. Farmers, craftsmen, merchants, teachers, and intellectuals walked in the shoulder. There was a nation coming from all the towns and districts in the south, west and north, because an armed raid swept the whole earth. The history of the uprising is national history. So let us follow her footsteps and tell her why and how Skalmierzyce was conquered next to Kalisz. On the night of 30 to 31 December, the commander of the Border Battalion came forward with the company of the station commander in Kalisz, an envoy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who examined the possibilities of the passage of Ignacy Paderewski from Poznań to Warsaw. He regretted that the entire railway line was free, only Ostrów and Skalmierzyce were in the hands of the Germans. The only way out was to get Scalmierzyc. The battalion commander, having obtained permission from Kalisz Military Command, hurried to Szczipiorn, where he was not only on standby 1. Company, but the whole battalion. No soldier wanted to be left out, and everyone asked them to participate in the party, in quotes. That's the kind of soldiers we had in Chives. The scalers were controlled a day later. The German Ostrowa crew has laid down their weapons. Thus, the great artist, the great Pole, the future Prime Minister of the Republic, the one who planted a spark under a barrel of powder of uprising in Poznań, could go to Warsaw. The road was clear. Ladies and gentlemen, the establishment of the National Day of the Victory of the Wielkopolska Uprising will be an inspiration to undertake historical works, to verify the universal knowledge of it, which so far does not impress either with its vastness or depth. There was a time when the Greatpolan uprising fell into oblivion, of course, undeservedly. By the way, the bitter inhabitants of Wielkopolska spoke with irony and regret that the uprising was forgotten because it was victorious, national, and comforting. The Greater Poland Insurrection was the last chord of over 100 years of struggle with German assassins. She was a retaliation for peasant rugs, for the children of September, for the fight against the Polish language and the Catholic Church, for the cruel anti-Polish policy of Bismarck, for the cart Dzymały, for the universal superiority and contempt shown to Poles. Poles learned from this lesson a wonderful lesson in self-reliance, learning self-organization, building institutions and strong social ties and entrepreneurship. High Izbo, in decades of reflection on the historical merit of the uprising, is often asked what his victory is. It is worth putting into consideration a few achievements. First of all, the recovery of Wielkopolska and Pomerania and their connection to the rest of the country. Secondly, the impact on the formation of national identity and patriotic awareness. After another, creating a foundation for a strong army, which next year resisted the Bolshevik storm. The army created in Wielkopolska had 70,000 soldiers. This alone determines the size of the Greater Poland Uprising, but that is not all, perhaps other aspects should be added. In any case, these mentioned just now have a huge weight of quality. I would like to thank the initiators and the applicant of this bill, the President for whom I will vote with full conviction. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u272	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Alexander Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u273	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! On 1 October, the Sejm unanimously adopted the law proposed by the President of the Republic of Poland, Andrzej Duda, on the establishment of 27 December as a national holiday. National Day of the Victory of the Wielkopolska Uprising. Today we are discussing this, in my opinion, an important and valid law in the Higher House. I hope that the Senate will also adopt this law unanimously. We can clearly state that the Wielkopolska Uprising, despite the fact that the winning, despite the fact that it deserves to be remembered, has not yet been sufficiently taken into account and does not function in the public consciousness as much as it deserves. Let me quote a passage from the Institute of National Remembrance entitled: An unforgettable break. The Greater Poland Uprising 1918-1919. The Wielkopolska Uprising contributed to the change in the course of the western border. If it hadn't exploded, the status of most of Wielkopolska would have been completely different. However, the uprising did not find a proper place in literature, art, music or film. This is not a romantic insure, consistent with the Polish tradition. There are no icons such as paramedics or children from the Warsaw Uprising, or women in black from the January Uprising. The number of victims is relatively small, but this shows the perfect preparation of the Wielkopolska Uprising. It has no hero, its face, symbolic figures that can be found at many historical events. Even the commander of the Greater Poland Uprising, General Brig. Stanisław Taczak (during the uprising as a major) and General Józef Dowbor-Muśnicki's weaponry, did not break through in the history of Polish militaryism. In most Polish cities it is vain to look for streets that they would patronize. In Poznań they have modest streets, not representative, only named after 1989. However, there are local heroes in awareness Paweł Cyms, Kazimierz Zenkteler, Stanisław Celichowski and many others who have their monuments patronize schools. Often these are so-called. the first fallen from a given region, e.g. Jan Mertka from Ostrowski County. The Wielkopolska Uprising works perfectly in the local historical memory. However, the Great Poles complain that their uprising is not well promoted. This is also true of the statement of reasons for the draft law. The memory of the Wielkopolska Uprising has become an inalienable element of regional identity. The merits of its heroic participants, very important for the history of the newest of our Homeland, were widely respected and worshiped in the times of the Second Republic. Later, however, they went a little further, overshadowed by the dramatic experiences of the next world war. As a result, the Wielkopolska Uprising, although firmly rooted in the local historical memory, in the nationwide consciousness now functions to an extent inadequate to its vital significance and significant impact on the fate of statehood and the formation of borders of the Republic of Poland. The present jubilee celebrations are a good opportunity to restore a proper place in the memory of Poles. Therefore, I fully support the idea in the law that the importance of the Greater Poland Uprising to restore our country to the political map of Europe is difficult to overestimated. It can be said that there would be no Second Republic in the shape known to us, and perhaps it would not have survived at all if it had not been for the Greater Poland break. After all, it is impossible to imagine free Poland without the cradle of our statehood, both because of its historical and cultural heritage, as well as for strategic, military and economic reasons. That is why I welcome and thank, firstly, all those who applied for this bill, and secondly, Mr Andrzej Duda, President of the Republic of Poland for this beautiful initiative to establish the National Day of the Victory of the Wielkopolska Uprising, an initiative that reminds us of this important event in the history of Poland. I will vote in favour of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u274	Thank you very much. Senator Potato will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u275	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no way that I, as a Grandpa of Greater Poland, did not speak on the establishment of the National Day of the Victory of the Wielkopolska Uprising. When as a young boy I lived in Czempin, then, of course, in Poznań Voivodeship, heroes, participants of the uprising lived near us. Unfortunately, they lived modestly, often we did not see that they were heroes, that they were insurgents of Greater Poland. These were times when they were not spoken of, and they were not bragging about it themselves, although they were aware of what they had done in 1918. The authorities in 1968. they honored the insurgents with the monument of the Wielkopolska Insurgents in Poznań, but it was actually just an external expression, and there was no such devotion for what they did. And those were the heroes, those were the ones who grabbed the gun. But there were also civilians. My grandfather, who was a tailor, made uniforms for them. This army wasn't organized like a typical army, they had their insurgent uniforms, the local community was sewing these uniforms, helping the insurgents who were going to fight to get the land back. Their memory in Wielkopolska has recently been cultivated by the local government of Wielkopolska Voivodeship, and not only in Wielkopolska. The day after the main celebrations, on December 28th, because the uprising broke out on December 27, 1918, every year in the square of Józef Piłsudski, one can say the patriotic manifestation of the Wielkopolska self-governments, which come and lay wreaths under the tomb of the Unknown Soldier. For several years in this way the Greater Poles also worship the heroes of the Greater Poland Uprising in Warsaw, offering wreaths and flowers at the grave of the Unknown Soldier. Many schools to commemorate the heroes of those events are named after the Insurgents of Greater Poland. In the vicinity, near Kościan, in which I live, practically every, every other town has a school of the name of the Insurgents of Wielkopolska. They are among others. in Osieczna, in Kąkolew, in Brenna, in Konojad, also in Kościan recently the Primary School No. 1 bears the name of the Insurgents of Wielkopolska. I have great satisfaction that three of my grandchildren go to this school, just to the school of the name of the Insurgents of Greater Poland. I would also like to add that the first who died in the Wielkopolska Uprising was a soldier, a resident of Sniat in the Kościan district. He died in Poznań. It was Francis Ratajczak. The School Complex in Kościan is named after Franciszek Ratajczak. So that the memory of those who restored us to freedom is great in Wielkopolska and this is expressed in many aspects, also in giving schools the name of the heroes of those events. Finally, I would like to say one thing to the heroes: hello and glory to the insurgents of Greater Poland! Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u276	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jackowski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u277	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Because there is also a new Minister of Sport who is listening to our debate. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by thanking the President for this initiative, which, as you can see, has met... She was the result of bottom-up local initiatives, but also the aspirations of the inhabitants of Wielkopolska. Mr. President reacted quickly. As Minister Dera mentioned, the bill was drafted in a very short time. Well, that's good. I think what was said during the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media... There was a good atmosphere, there were thanks to the President for this initiative. The senators expressed their gratitude over division. Together, with six senators, we voted in favour of recommending this bill. Everyone expressed their thanks to the President, and the atmosphere at the committee meeting was, I would say, very creative, very good. High Izbo, we are so convinced that the uprisings are romantic, dramatic. Well, in a special way, this kind of uprising is commemorated, remembered. The Greater Poland Uprising was one of the effective uprisings. The myth is so widespread that it was the only victorious uprising. That is not entirely true, because historians mention 4 uprisings that ended in military success. Of course, they belong to the Wielkopolska Uprising, but it is also about the first Wielkopolska Uprising of 1806, the Sejne Uprising of 1919, and the Second Silesian Uprising, which we also had the opportunity to honour in this House. High Izbo, the uprising exploded during Christmas, actually immediately after Christmas of 1918. In some ways it was a tribute to the visit to Poznań by Mr Ignacy Paderewski, the Prime Minister, who was enthusiastically welcomed by the residents of Poznań and gave a fiery speech, perhaps from the balcony of the Hotel Bazar. Formally, this uprising exploded on December 27. What is worth pointing out, thanks to this uprising has changed the shape of the western border of the Second Republic. As a result of this uprising, which probably has not yet been discussed, the western border has been established on the basis of an agreement with Compiègne within the range of the insurgent troops. If these troops hadn't been there, if these specific areas hadn't been occupied, this border would have gone in a completely different place. And thanks to this process of building borders of the Second Republic of Poland... And it was a long-term process. There were Silesian uprisings, there was a question of plebiscite in Warmia and Mazury, there was a Polish-Bolshevik war, so it did not look like that in 1918 these borders were closed. They were actually formed in June 1922, when part of Upper Silesia was incorporated into the Republic of Poland. High Izbo, but when we talk about our national history, there is usually an image of repression under Russian control in the general public consciousness. There are a lot of literature on this subject. Well, there were 2 uprisings, November and January, there were many other elements, e.g. post-insurgent repression, especially after the January Uprising. It is a canvas of Polish literature and culture. The positivism that emerged on this wave was also an answer to these persecutions. But there is little talk about what Poles experienced under the Prussian partition, especially in the second half and at the end of the 19th century. And in this context, it is worth recalling such important events as the uprising of Hakata, which for us is extremely ill-famous, because she was carrying out propaganda activities, gathering publicists, writers, and conducting political actions that were aimed at And they were offensive actions, not, as they were tried to present, defensive destruction of the Polish element or limitation of the Polish element. But there was also a Cologne Commission, which was equipped by the German Government with giant funds for the purchase of Polish lands and colonization of colonists from Germany who settled on indigenous Polish lands. In this way, it is possible to say, with German precision and consequence, the Polish element was tried to rumble. Two famous events that have passed to our national, one can say, iconography, is a strike of children of September in defence of their native language and the right to teach religion in Polish and in general opposition to the educational policy of the German government, as well as the famous cart Dzymała, which has made famous, one can say, the fight of Poles for law throughout Europe. After all, this case was that... there were construction regulations then, and we're discussing regulations here. Well, Dzymała, as you know, bought a parcel, but he was not allowed to put a house on it because it needed permission from the relevant administrative authorities. So he bought a circus car that was not permanently connected to the ground. Then it was considered that the car was residential if it stood longer than 24 hours on the ground. The squint moved this car, arguing that it was not permanently connected to the ground. Well, you could say it's such a very enlightening story, but it's become a symbol of a struggle... I may have told you a little bit about it, but it was a dramatic symbol of what the Poles had experienced under German partition at that time. It can be said that the memory of the Greater Poland Uprising is a very important element of building our community, national memory. I would like once again to thank all the initiators who carried such an idea, and Mr President, for taking over this as his legislative initiative on the basis of a petition. I would like to express my great joy that on 27 December it will enter the pantheon of national memory, that it will be another holiday, which has an extremely positive dimension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u278	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Marcin Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u279	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank all those who led to the creation of a law on the establishment of a national holiday on the anniversary of the outbreak of the Greater Poland Uprising, which I hope will be adopted today or in this meeting unanimously by the High Senate and signed by the President. I would like to thank the citizens of Wielkopolska, the Wielkopolska social organizations, the tens and hundreds of local governments who issued resolutions on this matter. I'd like to thank the President. Minister Dera is no longer here, but it's important. I would like to thank the Sejm, who voted unanimously. And I would like to thank not only in my name, but also in other regions of Poland and around the world, they live and remember the insurgents of Greater Poland and their families, who till now worship, also in the name of my grandfather Marcel Talarczyk and my great-grandfather on the other hand, on the side of my father, Antoni Głuszek, who at the turn of December 1918 and January 1919 took hold of the weapons and who also heard similar family stories from other Senators from Greater Poland, were simple people, one before he was a miner in Westphalia, then became a lawyer and the other was a carpenter. With these thanks, I would like to say very clearly that what some of your senators said is true: that the memory of the Greater Poland Uprising is not properly inscribed in the pantheon of great events in the history of Poland. I first came to work and live, then for a year and a half, to Warsaw almost 30 years ago and remember I remember it today with a certain intensity and humor, but it wasn't so nice. Like colleagues from Warsaw, but also colleagues from other regions of Poland, they were not completely aware that there were Wielkopolska Uprisings. Senator Jackowski, for which I thank, mentioned the first winning Wielkopolska Uprising of 1806. And these guys said, "No, it wasn't really an uprising, it wasn't a guerrilla, it wasn't a conspiracy." Complete nonsense, of course. I am glad because I hope that thanks to this new national holiday also Poznań or Wielkopolska model of patriotism will be promoted more strongly in Poland. I am convinced that this would be of great benefit to the Polish model of patriotism. Because we do uprisings when they are prepared and when they aim to achieve the highest political goals, in this case the liberation of the territory. And I remind you again of thanking Senator Jackowski for remembering this. That before we won the Greater Poland Uprising, we won a 40-year fight with Hakata about the national shape of Wielkopolska. A fight that we have won economically, politically and ideally. And the culmination of this There was a victorious armed uprising. And I also thank you for the fact that this new national holiday is not connected to your day off. Some people had such concerns a few months ago when this idea started to be very popular. No, it's not gonna be a new day off, it's gonna be against the spirit of Greater Poland, we like to work rather than rest. And last note, or actually a request, especially to senators from far away from Wielkopolska, mainly eastern regions of Poland. Four years ago, in the previous term, the Senate adopted a resolution establishing the 2018 year of the Greater Poland Uprising, in which it was written not only that it was a beautiful pattern of consecration to the common cause, which was the sovereignty of the whole country, but also that the Senate was asking the state and local authorities and civil institutions to popularize the knowledge of the victory of Wielkopolska as a common link of our Polish identity. I will tell you frankly that very often, especially when driving in beautiful areas of the Eastern Republic, east of the Vistula, I look even at Google Maps streets of the Greater Poland Uprising or insurgents of the Greater Poland Uprising. There are very few in the eastern areas, to be honest. There are many actually everywhere in Wielkopolska, in Kujawsko-Pomorskie, which was also partially liberated by the Greater Poland Uprising, in Pomerania, in Lower Silesia, but in the east of the Republic of Poland there are few. Wherever you can... This is my request to senators from regions where cities still do not have such squares, squares or streets, and where such new squares, squares or streets arise. Please remember about the uprising of Wielkopolska and the insurgents of Wielkopolska, because this is an important element of Polish identity, and maybe name these new streets or squares, referring just to the uprising of Wielkopolska. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u280	I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Szejnfeld, Arndt, Gromek, Komarnicki, Mamotkow, Bieda and Tyszkiewicz made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Sports Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 518 and the report of the committee In print No 518 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u281	(PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Mr. Marshal! I'll start with a formal issue. The Commission met yesterday and recommended that the Sports Act be amended. I propose, in short, to accept it without amendments. We had quite a simple situation there: 7 senators were in favor, 1 senator abstained. I'll tell you very briefly why. I'm going to start by saying that it's about filling a loophole, and even a few gaps in the bill, which concerns a sensitive group in sports, because most of all, young people, maybe not children anymore, but a little older group like that from 16 to 23. This gap concerned both the possibility of granting scholarships and the types of scholarships in terms of justification. I will not quote the entire bill, because we all have it at hand, but I will say the most important things, probably the most crucial from the point of view of the intention of the legislator, as well as the subject who appeared with such a project. First of all, it is important to remember that this law actually applies to 3 groups. First of all, the most talented staff members, which is kind of natural. Second, prospective staff members, which is the youngest age. It concerns coaches, which is very important, as well as players. And that's what I want to stress. Who have found themselves in a complex sports situation or, in short, a life situation. Another gap that was was one of the disciplines. It was chess. Thanks to this project, this gap is filled and there is a chance that well-deserved chess players, as well as those who achieve the most important successes here, can be covered by scholarships. By the way, the rate has been increased in terms of scholarships, from 1.8 to 2, so that these scholarships will be slightly higher. They, in short, have been realized. This earlier basis gave us a chance to get scholarships at the level - If I remember correctly. 3 000 500, 3 000 700 PLN. Now it's going to be a little bit more, this 0.2. The law in one element aroused... well, maybe not doubts, but a discussion on whether the Sport Institute is entitled to participate properly in the opinion process, I think it should be supplemented, but not in the way of the Act. and a discussion on scholarship merger issues. The important thing is that you will be able to combine 2 scholarships: this is the scholarship that this law speaks about, as well as the resulting scholarships. It seems to me that we have come to some agreement with the Legislative Office on the fact that the records that are at the moment are the most fortunate, give the most correct interpretation and, as I said in the introduction, will fill several gaps in the process of helping young people between 16 and 23 years of age in their life situations related to the exercise of certain sports discipline. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u282	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No questions. Then thank you, Senator rapporteur. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Sport and Tourism has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Minister of Sport and Tourism Kamil Bortniczuk: Yes.]] Hello, Mr. Kamil Bortniczuk, Minister of Sports and Tourism. Come on up to the podium. And by the way, congratulations on your choice and invite you to your debut in the Senate of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u283	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal, for your congratulations. As a prime minister, I happen to have a debut in front of the Senate, not in front of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. Okay, that's good. I very much thank the rapporteur of the committee, Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski, for presenting the subject so comprehensively and so positive the assessment of this regulation, prepared by my predecessor, Prime Minister Piotr Gliński. Indeed, this regulation will complete some gaps that had to be completed in the Polish system. If I wanted to present what I was planning, I would have to repeat to a large extent what Mr. Bogdan Zdrojewski was talking about. But, while respecting the senators' time, I will only allow myself to supplement this statement with the one question that President Zdrojewski has put forward regarding the possibility of combining the scholarship, the new, special one we are introducing, with the resulting scholarship. This doubt can be solved perfectly on the example from a few days ago, i.e. on the example of our outstanding athlete, Marcin Lewandowski, whom, as we know, the cause of the extremely random injury he caught in the semi-finals at the Olympic Games in Tokyo It prevented him from achieving the result on which the scholarship was based, and because of his success at the European Championship he was entitled to such a scholarship calculated from the slot machine, ministerial, in the amount of PLN 800. Today, the possibility of granting a special scholarship of 1.5 times the basis in the bill is, that it was possible for Prime Minister Gliński, therefore Mr Marcin Lewandowski, as an outstanding athlete, to receive much more than 800 PLN, which would result from the act. Today it is a 1.5-fold basis, and after this change it will be a 2-fold basis, so that it will be a much larger benefit, first, and secondly, it would be possible to combine these symbolic 800 zlotys from this given example, resulting from the sporting result achieved in the European Championship, with a special scholarship from the Minister, and therefore this amount would be even higher, and this much. I only add this as a supplement to the statement or to dispel this doubt that Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski presented. The bill was adopted almost unanimously by the Sejm, with barely four abstentions. Therefore, I would like to ask your senators to accept the draft submitted without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u284	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Marek Borowski. Mr. Minister, I'd like to invite you to the podium. Perhaps there will be further questions. [[Minister of Sport and Tourism Kamil Bortniczuk: Excuse me, but can I answer from the spot? Because if the questions were detailed, I would have the support of your directors here.]] Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u285	First of all, I would like to express my deep satisfaction that chess has finally reached the title of sport. [[Voice from the room: Yes, but...]] Wait a minute, that's why I'm performing. Chess has become a sport, although it hasn't worked for years. I'm a chess player, and I'm very happy for you. But what I'm trying to say is the same sport. Even in the name of the Polish compound this indication occurs There's a bridge. This isn't some kind of card game, like war, poker or that kind of thing, it's just a mental sport. And my question is, do you... And in this case, there are also sports camps and conditioning camps, there are Olympics, there are world championships... [[Voice from the room: Training of young people.]] ...training young people. So that everything occurs in the same way as in chess. We have a lot of success here, by the way. Therefore, my question to the Minister... I understand you haven't considered it, but do you think this is a bad idea? I don't want to do this right now. I don't want to make this amendment. However, to consider extending this law later also to the sports bridge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u286	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u287	Dear Senator, this is not an accidental solution, but I ask the Director for a full reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u288	Good morning. Anna Kuder, head of the Professional Sports Department at the Professional Sports Department. Mr Senator, when it comes to sport scholarships for bridgers and funding for competitive sport, which is the bridge, the Ministry of Sport has, of course, been funding the Polish sports union for many years, funding the organisation of groups, participation in competitions, the purchase of equipment, as well as sports scholarships for the results obtained. The regulation referred to in the Act applies only to so-called. Olympic benefits which are awarded to medalists of the Olympic Games, of the Special Olympic Games and of the deaf games after their career, only to medalists. The inclusion of chess players in this catalogue is due to the fact that chess has recently been included in the program of the winter deaf games. Therefore, the situation arises that if a deaf chess player, a Pole, wins a medal in the winter games of the deaf, then after his career and the age of 40, he will be entitled to an Olympic benefit. The full-time chess players have their party, the chess olympics, and if they get a medal, they won't be entitled to such a benefit. So the idea of this regulation was to equalise the rights of disabled and disabled chess players, in this case we were equal to the rights of disabled people. I assure you that the Polish bridge union receives funding from us, and the players who are entitled to their scholarships. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u289	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u290	I understand that if a sports bridge were to appear in such Olympic Games, then you would join this bill, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u291	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u292	Thank you very much. We'll take action. [[Head of the High School Sports Department at the Ministry of Sport Anna Kuder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u293	Senator Swede with a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u294	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I, too, would like to start by congratulating the Minister on taking office. Minister, this bill is a very positive bill. Here in the article. 4 we read that between 2022 and 2031, i.e. for the next 10 years, the maximum expenditure limit for the state budget will be PLN 510 million, i.e. PLN 51 million per year. I've seen thresholds for scholarships, but I'd like to ask if we know how many people are going to be included in these scholarships a year.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u295	Mr. Senator, we're predicting that any kind of new scholarship, Team100, Team100 Junior, which is the 2 scholarships that will be designed for the most talented players... Team100 Junior, I remind you, includes 16 and 17-year-olds and Team100, 18 and 23-year-olds. There's also so-called. Team100 Minister, a scholarship for players in difficult situations of life, and Team100 Coach, a scholarship for outstanding coaches. Each of these scholarships will be for 200 and 250 people, each of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u296	Thank you. That was the last question. No, no, I'm still here. [[You're welcome, Senator...]] [[Voice from the room: Secula.]] ...Seculum. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u297	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a few questions that Minister Gliński has not given me an objective enough answer, but they will now be at your disposal. Well, I would ask you very much to explain to me how issues related to cases of gross violation of the Olympic Charter will be enforced. The whole idea of the bill is to grant scholarships. Point 4 states very clearly in which situations it is possible to deprive the player of this scholarship, but there is a separate point according to which the Minister will be able to deprive the sport scholarship in the event of a flagrant violation of the Olympic Charter. As far as I'm concerned, the Olympic Charter is not the law. Please dispel my doubts and the sports environment that drew my attention to this recipe. My second question concerns the added paragraph. 8, which refers to the selection of applications by means of an open competition outside any mode. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u298	Please respond to the Director of the Legal Department.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u299	Good morning. Piotr Gałązka, director of the department of supervision in sport, soon legal. As for the first question, Senator, I'll explain immediately. The procedure provided for in the Act is an administrative procedure, i.e. the assessment of a gross violation of the Olympic Charter will follow in the administrative procedure, will end with an administrative decision. If this flagrant infringement is found, it will be a decision that deprives the scholarship. This administrative decision will be subject to a request for review, possibly to an appeal to the administrative court. The athlete who gets that decision will be able to complain as much as possible about this administrative decision. Of course, as the senator noted, the Olympic Charter is not a binding law, i.e. it is not a universal act, but it is not a general act in both the Sports Act and in the case law of the administrative courts, including the Supreme Administrative Court... The Olympic Charter is the type of document on which the courts base their case law, and the Sports Act uses the same term in other articles. So for us it is not doubtful that the violation of the Olympic Charter is in some sense equivalent to an infringement of the internal rules of the international federation, because the Olympic Charter, if we considered it in this respect, would be a kind of set of rules of an international organisation, which is the International Olympic Committee. This is one of those cases where you will be able to receive a sports scholarship. So much for the first question. With regard to the second question, namely the issue of non-competition recruitment, I would like to explain that a percentage of funds in the Ministry of Sport and Tourism is issued in procedures not governed by the Law on Public Benefit and Volunteering. These are, in particular, funds spent on the basis of the Special Funds Regulation, as well as funds spent on the preparation of the Olympics for the World Championships, the Olympic Games, etc. These measures are over 75%. So they are already spent outside the system set out in the Volunteering Act. Our change makes it possible for the remaining funds to be spent more flexibly. The fact that they are spent outside the procedure laid down in the Volunteering Act does not mean that they are not spent under the competition procedure. Both the FRFK Regulation and the programmes currently under way under Article. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 7 Sports Act, that is, this article, which excludes the application of the Volunteer Act... These are funds spent under the competition procedure, but not those laid down in the Volunteering Act, which sets out very strict requirements, above all, as to the time limit and scope of the eligible entities. We are simply making it more flexible, particularly with regard to universal sport and, to a lesser extent, with regard to professional sport, spending these funds to enable the beneficiaries of the act, who have often had problems applying for these funds, to have more access to the ministerial grant. That is the essence of this change. Thank you. [[Can I ask you a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u300	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u301	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. All I care about here is that there's a clear record that says it's the minister who chooses the entities to do it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u302	It's such a legislative manner, I mean... [[I mean, he's not gonna pick them himself?]] I mean, as part of the contest procedure... 'Cause it's gonna be like 70% so far. cases or more. The program will be announced and there will be a recruitment procedure. And in the context of the recruitment procedure, the Minister will decide the competitions and select the beneficiaries of the funds. That's what happened so far. Moreover, this is essentially the case, similarly, in the law on benefit and volunteering, where there is also a competition, many applicants take part, and it is the body that decides which applicants and to what extent they will get... It's just that the Volunteering Act introduces additional provisions of the kind of minimum deadline for announcement... Okay, thank you. [[Perfect, now I don't understand anything at all.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u303	Thank you very much. That was the last question. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski, remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u304	Thank you very much, Mr President. In addition, because I did not want to speak as Senator rapporteur so as not to exceed this task which I had received from the committee itself. I'm a big fan of scholarships. I think it's easier in sports because it's highly objective, but I'm also in favour of scholarships in various other fields, scholarships for those who are extremely gifted, young. This will give them a chance to gain success, from which we all, as recipients, but also the Polish state, are very satisfied. I have recently watched the Chopin Competition, there we have been dealing primarily with a very high level, but also with our strong representation, of 87 pianists qualified for the competition as many as 16 were from Poland. It is worth looking at all these careers, because those who take a very high position usually pass through scholarship systems. It is so in sports, and in the world of culture, especially in music. These scholarships are not only a motivating, supportive element, but also very often save the situation of families who bear very high educational costs, in this case music, in other cases an athlete. I approached this law extremely warmly, positively because it includes not only those who achieve good results. That's where we have the scholarships I mentioned, the results. And here we have the chance to, in short, intervene in extraordinary circumstances, when we are dealing with drama, e.g. with drama in the form of loss of health and the need to perform difficult, expensive treatments, or with the need to help coaches who find themselves in complicated situations, e.g. in relation to the need to change the place of residence. We can also help young people who occasionally That's what happens. In short, they come across a certain obstacle of a material nature. I am very pleased that we have filled these few gaps. I am also pleased with those chess players mentioned by Senator Marek Borowski. And I am also glad that this law will not have any long vacathio legis, enters into force on 1 January 2022. And, what is important, there was also no error in granting competence to a certain resort. We know that at night, when we looked at this law, the powers of Prime Minister Gliński changed, he lost his sport, the Ministry of Sport appeared. This law was designed so that it also took account of this change. To sum up, I'm going to say this very briefly. I'm very supportive of scholarship programs. I know that sometimes you can be wrong, because very often these are things of human nature, but, in short, I prefer these funding opportunities to be and not to be too embarrassed to intervene in making decisions and simply save the careers of young talented, often very hard-working young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u305	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senators of Poor, Swedish, Bubbles and Gorgon-Komor have made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 511, and the report of the Commission In print No 511 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u306	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The bill is valid, short. I'll tell her right away that she didn't have any controversy in the Seym. This is the next stage of sealing the VAT system. The purpose of this law is to introduce the National e-Factur System. Let me remind you that a single control file was introduced in this House in 2015. Next stage Next to those things that have already appeared, the National e-Factur System was to be. This system will start operations in 2022 as an optional element for the time being. As the Minister assured us, after such an optional operation of e-invoices in 2023, this will probably become a mandatory element. The second objective of this law is to simplify the whole process of issuing invoices. It introduces solutions for simplifying the issuing of corrective invoices, including the abolition of the number of elements of such an invoice, so that it is as clear as possible, pre-financing invoices and optional use of duplicate invoices. The Act in question, Ladies and Gentlemen, contains the definition of structured invoice, sets out the procedure and rules for issuing and storing invoices. And an important thing about the functioning of the entire system Three groups of amendments were introduced at the committee meeting. One change has been identified by the legislator as having doubts about the constitutional compatibility, namely the situation in which the invoice model is presented in the Minister's notice. The opinion of the legislator, which the committee later divided in the vote and we voted on such an amendment... The point is that the Minister must first issue a regulation, by virtue of the law, approve the model invoice and then publish it. It was one change. The second amendment concerned the entry into force of the Act on 1 January 2022. And there were four legislative amendments that didn't change the substance of the text, but improved the provisions. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, the bill was adopted unanimously at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u307	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Finance, Funds and Regional Policy has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: No, thank you.]] Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No questions. Then I'll open the discussion. Has anyone come forward for discussion? [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[Room voice: 3 to protocol.]] For the record, the Senators of Sweden, Gromko and Tyszkiewicz have made their speeches to the minutes. No legislative proposals? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and some other laws. The text of the act is contained in print No 506, and the report of the committee In print No 506 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u308	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We proceed with the review of the Act on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and some other laws. The project we are now analysing is included in print No 506 A, and this document also includes our report, the report of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. We ask that the High House take these into account during its vote and therefore accept the amendments contained in this document. At the same time, I would like to inform you that at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, a minority of the committee submitted its conclusions. They will be the subject of a separate report. We are now entering into a discussion on the bill, to consider a point which I believe is the most important point of this Senate meeting. This is a point that concerns important, most important changes that are proposed by the government for the following year and subsequent years. It is a proposal that largely changes the whole tax system, the tax system on personal income, but also on the income of companies. The fact that it is such an important act also shows that Minister Sarnowski and a whole team of his advisers, experts and collaborators arrived at our meeting. So you can see that the Ministry of Finance also takes this law very seriously. At the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances, we read the content of this law, which was adopted by the Sejm on 1 October really well and solidly. At committee meetings we met twice, for the first time on 20 October and for the second time on 27 October, when we adopted our position. On the first day of the meeting of our committee, we heard an opinion, many of the opinions that the social partners invited us to this meeting. Of course, the Minister also presented the reasons for this law and its content, and we also listened to the Legislative Office, which prepared a very reliable, solid, large analysis of this law. The bill may be worth showing, because not all of you have seen how big this document is. It is a document which, together with the justification, is contained on about 700 pages. The very content of the bill is almost 270 pages. The bill amends 26 other laws, maybe even more, but at least that's what we've done. So this is a far-reaching change. We have also asked for 3 expert opinions as the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. They were prepared by prominent economists, some with administrative experience, with tax experience. And all the senators. Not only were the members of the committee able to get acquainted with these materials. These materials really are very well developed, very valuable. I would also like to say that we, as members of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, have been able to familiarize ourselves with the expertise that has been prepared for the purposes of the Sejm and the Sejm committee. These expertises are professors' expertise... They're not all professors. In short, it is an expert report by Michał Mycka, Monika Oczkowska and Kajetan Trzciński, an expert report by Jarosław Neneman, who was also Deputy Minister of Finance in various governments. The senators were very interested in reading these studies. As well as Prof. Lasocki's expertise. So these expertises were really interesting and they helped us, especially me, to understand this law well. If we looked to the very beginning of the justification of the law. the draft law was submitted to the Sejm on 8 September 2021. We would see that, in the first sentences of the justification, the Minister of Finance and the government wrote: "The aim of the proposed law is to create a friendly and fair tax system which will allow Poland to take a dominant position in the investment race, which is the result of the process of changing global supply chains. Next, the government wrote: "The crisis associated with the COVID-19 pandemic translates not only into a reduction in budgetary revenues but also into increased expenditure, including debt and social benefits. For this reason, the State is forced to look for new solutions to support growth and stabilise overstretched budgetary revenues. Already on the basis of this second sentence, which I have quoted, it is clear that the aim is not just to create a friendly and fair system, but to look for a way to prevent budget revenues from being strained. So the goal is also that the revenue to the state budget should be higher. It is understandable, of course, because every government wants, we all want the revenue to the state budget to be higher, but provided I'm saying this from our perspective, because what is the philosophy of the government here, I don't know. It is precisely because the system is friendly, fair and rather that the burden on all citizens and companies is moderate, i.e. encouraging economic activity and mobilising human capital, which is within the country and can also be involved in economic development. And this is basically such a dispute, you could say, existing forever, or at least since Smith's time, which probably almost a quarter of a thousand years ago said that a good tax system should be fair, unambiguous, which means no discretion. It's convenient for taxpayers and efficient. Smith understood this as a low ratio of tax collection costs to personal income. A good tax system will encourage or slightly discourage people from working legally, saving and investing. In other words, a good tax system is one that increases labour and capital supply. Have these tasks, the objectives that I am talking about here, from my perspective and the perspective of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, been achieved in the proposed law? We have analysed this issue very carefully. We listened to the Ministry's voice. And the minister, and his co-workers. But also in the voices of the experts and those we have invited to our committee. And that's where there's a lot of doubt. These doubts are also expressed in the amendments we have prepared. The amendments adopted by the committee are 70. That's a lot. A document such as the Tax Act, such a revolutionary law, should be so prepared that basically and in the Seym, and in the Senate it should be adopted without amendment. He should be so good, discussed, in no doubt that the role of Parliament in these matters should actually be the role of taping this system. 'Cause it's always... Maybe the other way around. Because Parliament is never able to make such amendments as result from its activity and from its experience as the government is able to prepare, having at its disposal the entire administrative, official, expert, institution and body of an institution subordinate to the minister. If there is such an amendment to the bill at the parliamentary stage, whether in the Seym or the Senate, it is necessary, good and important, but it must be remembered that Parliament never has such a camera to prepare amendments that are as high as we think they are. That is why, in these amendments that we have prepared here, we have adopted the principle... That's why we needed a week to analyze this bill. We invited you to the first meeting... And there were dozens of people, outside guests. I think 35 people came along with the Minister, and we needed an extra large room to accommodate everyone. It's good for everyone, including those people on the outside. There were representatives of the Union of Polish Banks, spokespersons of small entrepreneurs, Polish Chamber of Commerce, business organizations including Leviathan and others, OPZZ, organizations representing large families, former tax advisers, representatives of the International Chambers of Commerce Group, which brings together dozens, probably 17, of different national chambers of commerce. The senators are here, too. It doesn't happen very often. • those who are not members of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, have taken the floor and have tabled proposals for amendments. And that was also wise, thoughtful suggestions. I don't want to be too long, because I know a lot of people signed up for the discussion. Those who were at the committee meeting know how we worked there. But there were a lot of questions just pointing out that this proposed system is unfortunately not so... i.e. that there's a danger that he won't be like I said in the beginning, i.e. that it will not be fair, simple, friendly, etc. I don't want to present it now... Many people have pointed out, also in the expert reports that we have prepared, that these records raise at least doubts and will be difficult to implement and to be implemented by citizens, by entrepreneurs. It has been pointed out that these are regulations that in many places receive privileges that entrepreneurs mainly take away from entrepreneurs. They've had it so far, and I think they've worked pretty well. It has been pointed out that there is a clear trend in government policy and that maybe according to the Ministry of Finance, it is the best solution that business activities should be organised within a company of commercial law. It has been argued that there are no mechanisms in this law that encourage, especially young people, to take up economic activity, i.e. very simple, understandable and possibly encouraging people to work and pay taxes. On the contrary, as regards the many provisions in the tax system which have been adopted earlier in recent years, experts point out that they Even those which seemed to be attractive regulations, because they concerned tax exemption of the person until the twenty-five or six years... Twenty-six. ...to the age of twenty-six, which is to the end of science. De facto, they are demobilising, mainly in terms of learning and improving qualifications. But, as I say, there are a lot of reservations. A lot of reservations were also raised by the Legislative Bureau. The result is that we have accepted many amendments. Those adopted by the committee are mostly amendments. That's the principle we've adopted here. Which were proposed by the Legislative Office. These amendments concerned constitutional reservations, equality between partners, individuals and economic operators, etc., etc. Any of these amendments could be discussed here, but I don't think I'm going to do that. I think that these matters will actually work out better in the discussion. As I said, the result of this work, the first day of work, was that the senators and our social partners, as well as the Ministry of Finance, prepared some proposals for amendments. Yeah, well, of course it's the Legal Office. The result was the preparation of 90 or even more than 90 proposals for amendments, and these were projects, proposals which could have been considered by the senators at the committee meeting. Of this we have adopted 70 amendments Because some of the amendments were withdrawn by the Senators and some of the proposals that had been prepared by various business organisations, none of the Senators had made, did not consider that they should be accepted. But they are to be used because all senators, members of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, have received them, even with the refined content of these possible amendments. So if other senators, outside the committee, or members of the committee, consider it right, they can be returned to them at any time. It was particularly important to speak at our meeting of spokespersons of small and medium-sized enterprises. This is a state institution, a government institution. This position of the spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises was clearly very critical of the solutions contained in this law. There have also been a lot of doubts about the departure from linear tax for entrepreneurs, and it has been pointed out that it could be changed, lead to some kind of sealing or that linear tax could be taxed on those who are engaged in a really extensive business, so as not to bring it down to self-employed people who are fleeing the normal tax system, being employed in companies, which may not be the best option to some extent... But in this respect, government policy is in practice moving towards a complete withdrawal from this system. The discussion we had at the committee meeting showed that this was rather a bad solution, harmful, that this should not be the solution. On the other hand, the senators, but also the guests present at the committee meeting, pointed out that there is no tax-free amount of PLN 30,000. And it needs to be made clear and strongly that the actual contribution to the National Health Fund, which today amounts to 9% , is de facto, formally, tax, and as a result the tax-free amount is much lower and this also needs to be remembered. On the occasion of this discussion, the contribution to the National Health Fund came out clearly also what doubts are in this matter and that there is a quite critical assessment of this mechanism which has been introduced here. Moreover, this system was strongly criticised at the work stage in the Sejm, which resulted in a reduction in this contribution, a reduction in this contribution for some taxpayers. And it must also be said that it is clear that this work in the Seym, but even in the Senate, shows clearly that the whole huge bill, the big one, which was later adopted as a law in the Seym, is underdeveloped. He's here. Okay, here's the The question of whether it would work well, and this was strongly addressed in every speech at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances, whether it could be implemented in such a way that it would not destroy the fundamental values I was talking about, that confidence in the state, the principle of fair tax, etc., as of 1 January this year. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances considered and considered the issue of relocation, and this case was presented several times by actually all as an important matter, that date of entry into force. The minimum is to postpone the entry into force of this law until 1 January 2023. The Commission and experts, invited to the meeting of our committee, pointed out that some provisions of this law clearly have an inflationary effect, e.g. that income tax that is introduced. Moreover, at one of the last stages of the work on this law, it was introduced as an additional element of this law. And we know that inflation today is the biggest threat to our economy. This is already noticed by the Prime Minister, who had doubts about this matter, the Minister of Finance always said that this is a problem, and most importantly, the President of the National Bank of Poland said that this problem does not exist and will not occur during his term of office, there will never be raised interest rates. Today everyone knows that inflation is one of the most serious problems facing the Polish economy. At the same time, it is worth noting what the advisors have also pointed out, especially in their studies and studies, that this crisis in 2008-2009 and the following years Poland has gone through quite mildly We remember most of these times, among others. thanks to the fact that in 2006 some taxes were reduced, that this gave an impetus to development and, of course, because there were many other government actions after 2007, 2008, 2009 and the following years... that it also had a significant positive impact on reducing the effects of the crisis, this great crisis from the beginning of the two thousand years or the first decade of the two thousand years. There were also allegations that this law had not been consulted, that the law had been consulted too briefly. There was also a fundamental question. Because it was said everywhere, for how many citizens these records are beneficial. And the minister said that 18 million would benefit. But for at least 3.5 million it will be a system less favourable than the previous one. There were also questions about other cases that were here. As you remember, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance paid very much attention to this in the context of the Estonian Tax Act. We've been paying attention to the weaknesses of this bill. Here some problems have been fixed, but some, despite the declarations that were made at the meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, have not been fully resolved, i.e. the issue of taxation or this Estonian tax for cooperatives. This case, according to the Minister's declaration, is to be resolved in the future, we hope it is not far away. Nor was another issue related to the Estonian tax or a slightly different formula. The point is that it has the same effect, the same effect on those who conduct one-man business. They should not be treated differently than other entrepreneurs. There was also a declaration here that the Ministry would work on this, but ultimately no solutions were found in this case. I think that... as I said, a lot of people attended committee meetings. Many people also want to speak at the moment in the discussion, so I think that my information at this stage is sufficient. I hope that in a rather comprehensive way I have presented here these comments which were raised during the work in committee. For the sake of order, let me just add that we have accepted the amendments that have been prepared by the Legislative Office. Of course, it was the senators who reported it. These amendments were tabled by Senator Kwiatkowski, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski together with Senator Mężydła, Senator Kleina, Senator Arndt and Senator Zając. There were amendments which were taken over by the senators and which were prepared by such an association dealing with leasing matters. Other entrepreneurs also proposed something, but the amendments that were directly taken over by the senators were being examined. Mrs Marshal, thank you very much for your attention and I would like to ask once again for the amendments that were adopted by the Committee on Budget and Public Finance on 27 October this year, which are included in print No 506 A. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u309	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to present a proposal for a minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u310	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The minority proposals are contained in the report. These minority proposals are 5. Let me discuss 3 of these proposals, the remaining conclusions will be discussed by my colleague, Senator Krzysztof Mróz. We have tabled these proposals together and, it can be said, alternately, so I will now discuss these amendments which I myself have proposed. They are now in the form of minority proposals. Due to the late timing, I will not refer to the statements of my previous speaker and I will focus solely on the discussion of the proposed minority proposals. Ladies and gentlemen, the first proposal is set out in points 1 and 3. I presented this as the 1st amendment, the Legislative Bureau considered it appropriate to divide it into 2 entries. We are talking here about an amendment in accordance with the spirit and philosophy of this law, which is supposed to seal the Polish tax system and to keep in the Polish budget the income from CIT tax on activities carried out in the territory of the Republic of Poland. Thus, this amendment, which I propose, concerns holding companies that have foreign assets, not domestic ones. Well, these holding companies are controlled foreign companies, depending on the Polish entity. The example I can present to you is KGHM, which, through a foreign company, controls the assets it owns in other countries, Chile, Canada, the United States. The amendment relieves this group and similar companies, if there is a Minister in his speech he would probably be able to identify more such entities, I identified KGHM It is not necessary in the light of the philosophy of the law. So I ask the High House to support this important amendment for Polish companies expanding in foreign markets, which will facilitate their expansion to other markets and activities outside Poland. I hope that, after reflection, members of the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as all other clubs will support this amendment, it is technical in nature, it is intended to facilitate the functioning of the best Polish companies, those Polish companies which are expanding in foreign markets. The second amendment, which is contained in section 2 of the minority proposals, is also a clarification amendment which eliminates the unintentional and unwanted effect of the good introduced by this law. Without pointing out clearly that this regulation applies to companies governed by commercial law, it may turn out that they will be covered by the regime of this provision, and consequently by tax charges, cooperative capital groups which have cooperative savings and credit banks and cooperative banks. We are talking here in capital transactions within the group, in the case of cash registers these are actions within the stabilisation fund, in the case of cooperative banks these are actions within the framework of the so-called. IPS. It was not the intention of the government to tax these transactions, the amendment is more precise and it is absolutely necessary for both these financial cooperative groups. So much for me to put forward these two amendments that I was about to make. I know that Senator Frost is ready to present the other two amendments to the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u311	Thank you very much. I ask the second rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to present a proposal for a minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u312	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! We have tabled further amendments which have not been recognised in the eyes of the majority of the Senate committee and, therefore, we have tabled a minority proposal in the case of these two amendments. The first of these amendments concerns the introduction of sanctions for not providing or withholding the information required by Article. Article 41 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4d. It is as if such a incomplete provision, no one questioned the need to provide information concerning the procedure relating to withholding tax, but there are no sanctions for this, so it is as if it were an addition to the rule. The second amendment is more complicated, namely it is intended to provide the basis for insurance for people who will come to Poland from abroad and in the last period, over 3 years, were not taxpayers. This is the result of the fact that we want to attract our citizens, but not only to Poland... People who have not been in Poland for 3 years and come to Poland will not pay tax up to an amount of 85 thousand, therefore no advance payment will be made on this tax and there will be no basis for the calculation of health contributions. So there's a gap in which these people, if they don't have private insurance in addition, will not have insurance with the NFZ unless they exceed this threshold of 85 thousand. This amendment corrects the gap that has arisen. This amendment is beneficial for taxpayers, because people who come to Poland after at least 3 years of absence, and who, according to the provisions in the Polish Łada, will not pay tax in this bill, will give the title to health insurance. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u313	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I'm asking you to ask Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u314	Thank you very much. I have a question for Senator Kazimierz Kleina. Mr. Senator, I am unable to present all the questions that I would like to address to you, and which may be answered by many audiences and listeners, and above all, they would make us aware of what we are talking about, so I will only focus on a few points. First of all, I would like to refer to your speech and the presentation of this great knigi. You have said and mentioned that these regulations, their complexity, as well as the impreciseness and short time to enter into force can cause great complications since the new year. With Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, we held an expert debate... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, I only have a request: 1 minute. You're welcome.]] I'm almost done. I remember from this expert debate the speech by Prof. Marianski, who, as a tax expert, stressed that he was unable to understand many of these provisions. I would like to ask: since a tax expert, a professor of habilitation and other experts say the same thing, do you think that a beautician, a hairdresser, a car balding artist and other entrepreneurs are able in such a short time as is foreseen for the entry into force of this law, to read it and know how to apply it in life? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u315	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u316	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Senator, Ladies and gentlemen! This is a problem that we have highlighted in an important way at the committee meeting. Complicating these rules, misunderstanding them... Representatives of accountants, so those who will help entrepreneurs implement these records, also strongly emphasized that they are actually very, very complicated. This problem was strongly highlighted. Moreover, the senators pointed out that at this stage at which we are operating here, there is such a feeling that these regulations are designed more for large, even international corporations than for a small entrepreneur, especially one that starts business. For example, there are groups of large companies exempt from this tax, which is important and introduced... That income tax... What's his name? [[Voice from the room: Minimum.]] Minimum. These are e.g. energy or fuel companies, which are large, huge companies. And the argument behind this is that they have almost official prices for the products they sell. Of course, in part it can agree that, for example. some energy plants or energy companies sell at official prices, but the vast majority of these sales are free market prices. A is used to argue that these are regulated prices, especially for example. in the case of fuel companies, that they are exempt and all others have to pay this tax. Particular emphasis is given in these speeches And this is right for the senator to point out. It is in commercial companies that the introduction of this tax... We haven't filed a motion to liquidate it, but it's probably gonna sound in some way in the discussion. This will trigger a large inflationary boost and especially these days, this is a very difficult operation. And it's worth it here... I may not have said this by omission, but indeed an important part of the work on this law was the consultation which was organised by the Senate Group on. The small and medium-sized enterprises you run by Senator Szejnfeld. These were very, very important meetings attended by many senators, as well as many experts. And it was our committee that undoubtedly helped very much to work on this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u317	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to ask Senator Janusz Bubbler's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u318	Thank you very much, Marshal. I also have a question for Senator Kleina. Or within the framework of the committee's work Because I was familiar with the expertise, but I did not attend the committee's meeting, there was a question of not being able to deduct depreciation costs in the activity of renting apartments? If so, has the possibility of increasing the grey area in renovation and construction services been highlighted, because the buyers who took the invoices will stop taking them if they do not increase the initial value of the amortized permanent source? That's a question that many people ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u319	On this subject We spoke at the committee meeting. This problem has been to some extent, I do not know whether it is fully resolved by the appropriate amendments that are included in the group of amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u320	Thank you very much. Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u321	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the minority proposal, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki. Senator, as part of the proposed amendment, we have a number of positive changes in the income tax laws, including. resulting from the implementation of the Polish governance programme. I would like to ask you to increase the tax-free amount to PLN 30,000. What does it matter? Was this expected by society? And what was the situation we found in 2016, how this tax-free amount was increased by the Government of Law and Justice?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u322	Thank you very much for this question, because it will allow me to remind you that in 2017 it was the Government of Law and Justice that made the first increase of this tax-free amount. And I would like to remind you that this was my amendment tabled at the last possible moment of this legislative process that we were doing at the time. It was an increase of up to 6,000 600 PLN, and a year later. Up to PLN 8,000. So that I had the honour of presenting this amendment. Now 30,000 zlotys for everyone. 120 thousand zlotys for those who... [[Voice from the room: Not for everyone.]] 30 thousand PLN of tax-free amount for all taxpayers deducting tax on a scale, i.e. in the first... [[Voice from the room: Not for everyone.]] ...in the first... [[Voice from the room: Not for everyone.]] Yeah, but the senator told me to stop halfway through the sentence... [[Voice from the room: No, no, no...]] ...when I said 120... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: But please do not argue.]] ...that 120 thousand PLN... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Please let the senator finish. Okay?]] Yeah, yeah. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator has come to life. I'm very happy for you. At this hour, we probably need a little more emotion and energy. Increase to PLN 120 000 of income threshold, after which the rate of 32% applies Such a proposal is on the table, contained in the Polish Lad This is a proposal that benefits 24 million taxpayers, as we read in the explanatory memorandum of the Act. So the game is definitely worth the candle. Most, the vast majority of taxpayers will benefit from these proposals, will pay lower taxes or will not pay them at all. In fact, we should all clap our hands in this House and scream "allelujah..." [[Hallelujah. But we don't clap, Mr. Senator.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...because it's for them, for these voters, we're here. A small group of the best earners will have a chance to contribute more to the welfare of the Republic, which is also a great honour, as we all know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u323	Senator Halina Poor's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u324	Mrs. Marshal! Mr, rapporteur, I have a question for the senator, Mr. Kleina. Did the committee's meeting mention the loss of income and possible compensation for professional activities? Let me remind you that these are bets that help people with disabilities. As a result of the change in the tax credit, as a result of this increase of up to 30,000 tax-free amounts, these revenues will fall significantly to them, and this is kind of the main element of their business, i.e. It is from this income that they make rehabilitation for people with disabilities. Let me remind you that these ZAZs are over 130 and have about 6,000 employees. And these are indeed the least earners, because they earn the lowest salary and still work part-time. Was that discussed at the committee meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u325	The issue of disability was raised at the committee meeting, but there was no amendment to the problem that the senator was talking about. We're actually... Our committee was affected by these amendments, because we as committee were in contact with different environments. And this problem was also covered. All the members of the committee received all the materials that came to us, so they also received this information. As far as I know, the amendment on this issue will also be tabled in order to actually consummate this problem. Referring to this example, it is worth noting that it is in this law, which was intended to simplify various issues, to make things work better, that many elements were not found or fell out of this law, some by omission And that's when it needs to be completed. And for some, it was a deliberate procedure so that some elements would no longer be included in the next tax laws. Tax laws are a huge deal. We are not opponents, the Committee on Budget and Finance has never opposed the new tax system, but it seemed to us that this should be prepared in such a way that the time for implementation, implementation would be much longer and that all such matters that the Senator is talking about could be eliminated, or that the interested could be persuaded that the other solution is better. The worst for the tax system is when different cases are introduced by surprise, and the consultation time is designed to change some solutions quite 100% Or you enter one that you thought shouldn't be. And such cases are included in this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u326	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u327	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have two questions. First to the Senator of the majority of the committee, Senator Kazimierz Kleina. Mr. Senator, I've run out of information in this report today, so if I may ask you... Tonight's sitting, in addition to voting on the amendments... The amendments have been tabled by Senator Mr. Mr. Frost. I'm talking about the amendments to the health fund fees for returnees and these few... Don't you feel like we're going to have a big mess about this bill? I say this on the basis of what was being discussed today and how the deliberations were conducted. That's a question for you. And to Senator Bierecki... Mr. Senator, I'd like to say that these very good solutions that you mentioned... Well, like Poland long and wide Gloria, gloria, may PiS live for us because he's giving us new money. I'm applauding, too, just like you. Good solutions should be praised. And my questions are two. First. Mr. Senator, do you see in this bill that has been proposed here, any mistakes, errors, bad things that should be corrected? Do you see these in this bill? That's one thing. And the second question about the proposal you made regarding intra-group transactions. You said that it was certainly not the Ministry's intention to charge transactions in capital groups in SKOK cooperatives. I'd like to know how you know that and if it was really such a conversation that it wasn't seen and the SKOKs would have to pay these taxes on transactions within the capital groups. And tell me what transactions within the group of savings banks cooperative you're talking about. What is the capital group, how it goes and why is it so important that cooperative savings banks and cooperative banks are excluded from this jurisdiction as regards the payment of these taxes? From the point of view of their benefit not only as an entity, but... this is what Senator Frost was talking about, that thousands of co-workers are waiting for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u328	Thank you. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u329	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! The issue of tax exemption for people returning from abroad or those who have the Polish Charter is about people who have lived and worked abroad for at least 3 years This is one of the essential elements of this law. He is to encourage our citizens, people who are in the situation described in this law, to return to Poland, to work here, etc. They have for a certain period a tax exemption at all. As a general rule, this solution is probably a good one, but we did not deny it, although there was some doubt at the committee meeting. The amendment mentioned here by the senator came out today because the question of the insurance of persons who would be exempt from tax would not be paid for insurance contributions, contributions to the National Health Fund was overlooked. This amendment, which has not received the support of the majority of committees, is an amendment of minorities, has not been tabled. It indicates that such important elements... It was only the last day before the Senate meeting that one of the senators pointed this out. This problem was not noticed by people in the ministry or by others, etc. And that's the weakness. At this point, I'd like to remind you of one thing. Our Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, including myself, has been monitoring, leading and cannot resolve this matter to the end for several years. The issue of taxation of seafarers following ... And all the time this case comes back, I think I'm dealing with this case for a third term, and one of the Members of the Law and Justice has dealt with this case before. I mean, it's all been cleared up, but... Today even the Minister's interpretation is prepared on this matter, but it has not been published for a few weeks. And the trials continue, sailors are dragged through offices, courts, etc. If such a small matter cannot be dealt with, how can we believe it can be arranged? So big things about tax exemptions and all sorts of things? The impression on this bill was still so... Of course there are good records, I don't deny it, the question of 30,000 good records, the question of raising this amount. It's a good record, but you always have to be honest, that's 30,000, but that's still gonna pay 9% of the National Health Fund's contribution. So it's not 30,000, because it's de. In fact, the tax, and that's what we've been paying attention to, is the tax, from the citizen's point of view, it's a normal tax. Some do not remember and wonder why this contribution to the National Health Fund was mostly deducted from the tax. It's worth reminding you how it happened. When the reform was introduced in 1998, many people in this room no longer remember it, I remember, maybe I've been here too long... After all, earlier, the whole system of financing for health care was that it was financed by the state budget. And this big change, the revolutionary change, so that it would not be a burden on the citizens, so that it would be, in fact, further financed by the money that had previously affected the budget... It was treated as this contribution and was therefore deducted from the tax. At the moment, it's changing, and in fact, it's a new tax to be paid. You have to remember that. I say again that I do not deny and no one in the committee denied, and I am glad, it is worth to say once again, that the increase in the tax-free amount, everyone is happy about it, it is not unusual, and that the second threshold has been raised, but these other elements still exist, appear and lower the value of the benefits that have been recorded here. We are happy about this, but we must always remember this... Here Senator Bierecki said: in 2016, we have done so many different good things, among others. We made that amendment I was talking about. But how many new taxes have been introduced or increased at that time? This is no longer for this discussion, but it is very easy to show one example: sugar levy. It's not even called tax, it's a fee, but it's a de facto tax. Only so that it could be introduced within a year, it was called a fee. We could eliminate income taxes in Poland at all and then announce a huge success, say: in Poland there is no income tax. You could, but... [[Applause]] Oh, even Senator Dowhan is happy, and he's a man who likes to pay taxes, says he's even big. That's his character. You can just call it something else, like a fee or something, like some other government service. Except that's not what it's all about, is it? From the citizen's point of view, everything that is paid to the state budget is de facto tax-based, although it is called differently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u330	Thank you very much. [[Voice from the hall: We're just talking...]] Senator Bierecki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u331	Yeah, we're just talking, but it's the senate's charm that... [[The senator wasn't at the committee meeting...]] [[Voice from the room: But it's the right thing to do...]] We are so culturally speaking in the Senate, and this is what we stand out from other chambers that do not have the opportunity to have such a conversation, but partly because of the rules that allow us to say more in the Senate. Maybe I'll start with a comment, 'cause I hear the words 'cause it's a mess', 'cause it's a chaos. Ladies and gentlemen, this may be a mess for you, but for us it is a renovation, it is a real change of the model of functioning of PIT and CIT tax in Poland, a huge change, beneficial to most taxpayers, 24 million people will benefit from it. It's a renovation... [[Voice in the room: 13...]] So don't tell me it's a mess when it's renovated. It will be better, really, after these changes, because these changes will contribute to the fact that the Polish state will be the wealthier wealth of its citizens. That's what I'm saying. The second thing is whining about the NFZ contribution. I've always asked... [[Mr. Senator, but the answer to the question...]] I'm getting started, I'm gonna answer the question, it's all a frame to answer your question, I'm gonna answer it. This whining about the amount of contributions to the National Health Fund, which has grown to 9%... This is a level that, as we recall, when it was introduced, was indicated as an appropriate level necessary to ensure proper financing of health care. The fact that Leszek Balcerowicz then decided to reduce it, forced the reduction to 7.5% After all, it resulted in a huge debt of hospitals and then pathology, which grew on the debt trade of these hospitals. Now it's 9%. And don't whine about it being bad. Good. Because when you go to a white town that's not far from here, you hear that these people are there in this case, so that the National Health Fund contribution is sufficient to finance the needs of health care to finance the health needs of Poles. The fact that entrepreneurs who have so far paid symbolic contributions to their income... We had a situation in which the employer, the owner of the company, paid many times less contributions to the NFZ than his employees. This wealthy businessman paid pennies on the NFZ because he once received such a privilege. I was looking for answers to the question why entrepreneurs were given this privilege that this contribution to the NFZ was not proportional to their income. I didn't find the answer. You may know her, and you will be able to tell us why the owners enjoyed such a privilege over the years and paid lower contributions to the NFZ than their employees. Now I come to the questions that Senator Czarnobaj was willing to ask me if I see mistakes and errors. Yeah, it's about their minority proposals I've made. These are the amendments that need to be made. I am very pleased that we can help to make good law. That's what the Sejm and the Senate are for, to correct. If we were convinced that the government would always bring the best solutions, let the government rule by decree. Then why this legislative process here? After all, we are just from helping to make this law better for our citizens. So I see mistakes and these amendments are contained in the minority proposals that I myself have tabled. You asked about transactions in cooperative groups. Because, please remember, it's not just the SKOK, we're also talking about cooperative banks here, about IPS, it's important for both sectors. I will redirect this question partly to the Minister, because he probably knows more about the history of this provision and the unintended effect that we are dealing with and which should be eliminated by the amendment found in the minority proposals. This was not the intention and there is no will to tax these intra-group transactions within cooperative banks and SKOKs groups. If this also applies to other cooperatives, Mr Fróz pointed out housing cooperatives, I would also ask the Minister to inform the House. I am a specialist in the financial sector, and that's why I noticed this problem in this sector. Senator Frost was talking about housing cooperative. It is not our intention to hinder the functioning of existing and well-functioning intra-group support mechanisms within both groups of cooperative financial institutions. What kind of transactions are these? We're talking about swapping bonds for shares here. First of all, I identify such a transaction as a potential threat. There are also loans granted by the cooperative headquarters to other cooperatives. The cost of these loans could not be included in the cost of obtaining revenue. That's how I understand the threats that are here. They are indeed serious and concern these groups. I was just making sure that... Both these amendments which I tabled, both concerning KGHM and those concerning cooperative groups, were supported by the government. Here is a full understanding that these are the amendments that allow properly calibrated or aimed at this law. There was no intention to ricochet into KGHM or Polish financial cooperatives. I hope it pleased the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u332	Senator Blackbay would like to ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u333	Mr. Senator, first of all, I would like to thank you very much for your discourse, which is 90% He wasn't the answer to the question. Yeah, but that's the law that says he can talk about things that no one's ever asked about. Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask you what your statement is. Namely, you said, in order to justify the request of a minority... I'd like to know, but I'll ask the Minister later. Because you said And now you've confirmed it. That what concerns the non-taxation of widely understood cooperatives, including banks, SKOKs... [[And cooperative banks.]] ...and cooperative banks... You spoke to the Minister. It wasn't the government's intention, was it? [[Yes.]] Is that what you said? [[Yes.]] So I understand you guys met when the bill came in. The Ministry has been working since September or there since August and suddenly you notice that something here concerns taxes on transactions that will have to be paid by the SKOKs. I'm sorry, I'm using this example. You spoke to the Minister and the Minister said, "Ah, that's a good idea. And that's why the amendment, isn't it? [[No.]] No? Then why don't you tell me what it was like. 'Cause that's what we're curious about.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u334	Mr. Senator, that's what I'm reading. In a series of writings... Mr. Senator probably didn't notice it, but because of my sympathy for the cooperative sector, I read these letters from the cooperative, from the National Bank, from the SKOKs and from the National Cooperative Council. These letters came into the committee, and that's where the signal was. Me after reading this information It was the industry that drew attention to this issue that I asked the Minister to clarify his intention. Besides, I repeated it this morning at the committee meeting. As you recall, I asked the Minister to take a stand on this matter. [[I couldn't hear you very well.]] Well, that's the charm of remote work. But as you can see, I'm also trying to be real here.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u335	Thank you very much. Senator Robert Dowhan's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u336	Thank you very much. I'm here to see Senator Kazimierz Kleina. Oh... Mr. Senator, is this fall significant in the context of taxes? [[Controlled.]] Controlled. I have a simple question. There'll be more questions for the minister, we'll be rolling it over and over, but I'll start with a simple question. Is it simply, in human terms, fair to all entrepreneurs that we are doing this at the last minute, that we have not divided it into stages, that no one really knows how to do it, that the IT systems will not be prepared in time, that we do not know what form of taxation to choose? Is that just fair? Can't you just... I saw as many as 30 people from the ministry came to the committee meeting. Can it not be prepared normally, to debate, to call into this mode various organizations, which are many? After all, it can be done in a human and civilized way.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u337	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! On the issue of fairness, we did not discuss it, we assume and the committee assumed that here the good intentions were directed and headed by the Minister and the whole team who prepared these draft laws. The accusations that arose from our side senators are that there was too little at that time, and in the government's proposal that this law should enter into force on 1 January, in our assessment of that time there is too little for different entrepreneurs to adapt. We have made a number of amendments there, which are simply due to these problems with the implementation of this law. If it is passed by the Sejm along with those amendments which we have made, if the Sejm accepts them, the government will support them and here in the Senate, and in the Sejm, it is a chance that this will be a bill... She's gonna have a lot of problems anyway, and I'm pretty sure she's gonna be here in a year. Although we have not been able to analyze everything in such detail and detail It's likely to be updated. This should not be so, because the taxpayer should be sure that it is a stable law and that it is built for years, that if it is a renovation, as it has been said here, it is a renovation in which there is no pile of garbage, there are no different things... that it is carried out as it is done in these days of construction. It shouldn't be a renovation like in the times of the Polish People's Republic that they put everything there, made a mess, didn't even clean up, even after they finished construction, it was still a lot of rubble to transport and everything. Today renovations are done differently, so that in fact you can hardly see them, in the blocks where people live, there is a great renovation of the apartment and often no one even knows about it. So if this repair had been carried out in this way, we would not have any objections to this law. But there's still time to possibly make these adjustments. Like I said, what we introduced was known and everyone saw it. Some of it can be accepted. I know the senators were working on it and working on other laws. It's only worth paying attention... I don't want to argue with Senator Bierecki here, because that's not the point, we didn't stand here to argue. Only when you say it's good for over 24 million... However, in the explanatory memorandum of this law and in the information that you gave to the Minister at the meeting, it was said that the benefit, the advantage, is... We didn't verify it, we didn't check it, but we accepted what the Minister said. According to him, it was, if I remember correctly, 18 million 600 thousand people. For some, according to the Minister, it will be neutral, and for some it will be a worse solution. So it is worth sticking to this truth, or at least being, so to speak, attached to what the Minister says in this matter. We assume that he is telling the truth, we do not deny what he has said, we do not say that it will be more unfavorable, or that it will be less beneficial, we will see after a while how people will enjoy it. There's a lot of doubt, but we'll see.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u338	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u339	To see the president, Senator Kazimierz Kleina. Mr President, there are thousands of social organizations in Poland, up to 200 000 people are employed or volunteered in social organizations, and several million Poles benefit from the constant or occasional assistance of these organisations or from sports, cultural, educational events organised by them. Experts at the Senate meeting you mentioned to the senator. Also the Senacki Group for. Sustainable Development organized them They estimated that the loss of social organisations due to the increased tax-free amount in terms of the impact on the OPP of 1% would be between 10 and up to 20% of the revenue. Has the government noticed a reduction in this influence? Did he offer anything? Did someone else have to notice and lean down with concern for this problem?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u340	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u341	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! This problem was noticed by the committee, thanks to the fact that one of the senators drew attention to it, it was Senator Kwiatkowski, and therefore we accepted the correct amendment. This is indeed a very important and serious matter. We propose to raise the level of contributions to 1.2%. I don't think it's gonna be a big operation either. The government, if I recall correctly, was opposed to this solution, but the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance accepted this proposal. We are aware of the importance of non-governmental organisations in various areas, and those related to health, with social assistance, but also with culture. There's a lot, there's probably millions of these organizations, they're working and they're smaller, and they're bigger, and they need some kind of support. So we actually saw the problem, but also thanks to the senator. Once again, I just want to stress the importance of these consultations, which were the consultations held in the Senate concerning this tax law. And I want to thank all those people who did this once again, and this is Senator Kwiatkowski, Senator Szejnfeld and others who got involved in this project, and you patronized this project by Marshal Grodzki. I think it was very important, and thanks to that, our way of looking at this bill has expanded. Of course, the problems that the senator has now drawn attention to were also addressed. This very serious problem is a problem related to the financing of local governments, because they really lose on this operation. They're here right now, in the last few days... I don't think it should be done that different grants are given there, and then the uncles are happy that they got 1 million, 2, 5 or 10 million PLN, because sometimes some people don't see that the loss of income in some local governments is much greater than the funds they were given. This problem is also something that we have been paying attention to when discussing other laws. [[Voice from the room: This is important...]] Probably, except, first of all, to give to someone, you have to take someone away, and the worst part is when you take the same one you give later, and they say it's a success.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u342	Thank you very much. Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u343	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I would like to ask a question to the minority senator Grzegorz Bierecki. In this amendment, Mr Senator, we have a new interesting proposal that fills a gap, namely the proposal concerning taxpayers settling in Poland, who consequently change their tax residence, is so-called. It's a relief to be back. I would like to ask who and under what conditions will be able to benefit from this relief.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u344	In some sense, the Senator, the rapporteur of the committee, raised these questions by answering another question. This relief to return is a relief which is intended for Polish citizens, including citizens of the European Union, who will decide to move their tax residence to Poland. This regulation will also include people who have the Polish Charter, so it is a group of people who most often reside in the territory of Belarus and Ukraine, there are the most people who have the Polish Charter. This is a new proposal, so far there has been no proposal for such regulation in Poland. [[It worked really well. An example of these sailors shows that they're tax-free, but they're after them. So it's not...]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask...]] I know you're Senator Klein. About the sailors... I remember that he raised these issues both during his term of office, in which he was in the governing group, and... [[No, no...]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Ladies and gentlemen, both of you are moving away from the subject. I would very much like to go to the end.]] The right to apply the exemption will be granted to the taxable person for the following four consecutive tax years from the beginning of the year in which the taxable person moved his residence to the territory of the Republic of Poland and became his taxable person. So this is a four-year tax exemption. Here, in response to this issue, I would like to draw attention to the very important amendment, the minority proposal that you referred to Senator Frost. This is a question of covering the contribution to the NFZ of those persons who have the said exemption, as is the case with the income tax exemption of persons up to the age of twenty-six. If we did not accept this amendment by Senator Mroz, it could happen that people who will settle in Poland and benefit from this tax credit, because they will not be taxpayers of income tax, will also not pay contributions to the NFZ and will therefore not be covered by public health care, which is obviously not the intention of this law. We want people who are coming back to Poland who are going to move here. Their center of life will be here, here they will pay taxes, they will use the Polish tax residence, they were also taken care of by the Polish health services. The amendment you presented to Senator Frost I also supported and supported this amendment. It fills this very important gap. So since we are in favour of this tax credit for people who return to Poland or simply move to Poland with their taxes... If we want to accept this, let us also give these people the opportunity to use public health services. [[Mrs. Marshal, if you don't mind my asking...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u345	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u346	Of course, if the senator has that knowledge... If not, I will redirect this question to the Minister. [[Yes?]] Can this relief be combined e.g. With relief for the young?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u347	Will this relief be combined with relief... Well, since this is a tax exemption, I don't think there's any reason to connect with others... there's no need for other reliefs anymore, is there? I answer a prima vista. But if I'm wrong, I'd ask the Minister to correct me.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u348	Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u349	Senator Kleina, if you don't mind. Mr. Senator, was there a question of pensioners receiving over PLN 4,000 900? Because I've been told to ask for such a question from people who have worked hard all their lives and are being punished for getting a little higher benefits. Was there a case... People receiving pensions over 4,000 900 zlotys will lose on the Lad, right? 9% health contributions will cause at least a few hundred zlotys to lose these people. Was this case discussed? That's the first question. In a second, two.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u350	This case has been brought up. The amendment on this matter, I think, will come. Because she was quite complicated, she needed more time. I know that one of the senators together with the Legislative Bureau worked on such an amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u351	And second question, short. The Act excludes doctors working for medical entities from the tax card. This entry applies only to doctors, not to e.g. Paramedics or nurses. And the doctors are asking me if they're really excluded from the tax card by doctors working in medical entities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u352	Here, I think, the amendment made by Senator Małecka-Libera consumes this problem. This amendment was accepted. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u353	Thank you very much. Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u354	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I would like to ask you if you share the impression that many of us have that the government not only strikes the smallest companies with these rules, but also wants to eliminate the simplest forms of taxation for micro-enterprises, i.e. those companies that only bureaucracy and overregulation can end. They are because they functioned on the basis of tax rules such as, for example, tax rules. tax card or linear tax, as part of simple forms, still worked somehow. There's an impression here... It's not an impression, it's the government that's practically eliminating the tax card, so what's the best solution for small companies, but it also wants to lead to the de facto elimination of linear tax. He is obviously not deleted, he will be able to use it, but it will not be worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u355	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! This was discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. As regards the tax card, an appropriate amendment was accepted, and it was also suggested by the Legislative Office. It seems that it at least partially solves this problem, because it gives the possibility to register companies using this system, i.e. a tax card. The issue of linear tax was also discussed. There was no amendment here. We discussed such an amendment, we also discussed it with the Legislative Office, which exceeded the possibilities of at least our committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u356	Yes. I'm not asking if the committee was able to fix this, but if you share the impression that the government is committed to eliminating simplified forms of taxation for the smallest companies. That's what I feel.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u357	That was definitely the impression. We were talking about the fact that it wasn't just a matter of impressions, but that it was. I would've ended it anyway, so I wouldn't prolong the subject. This problem was strongly raised at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Besides, it's not the first time I have to say this. Because on other occasions it was clear... I can't remember what it was like anymore. I think that's the unfortunate Estonian tax, by the way. That's what one of the directors of the Ministry of Finance said. . that the prospects of the Ministry of Finance would be the best solution if all entrepreneurs turned into companies governed by commercial law. Well, it seems... This case was, of course, not here by the minister in this way, I am not saying that it was now, it is a matter a few months ago, but it seems that this climate is because there is no search for the simplest solutions that would encourage people to set up companies. But it's always a little judgmental. Right? In practice, we'll see how it all works. If it works well, we'll be happy about it, but today's impression is exactly the opposite. At least that's what those who were invited to our committee's meeting say, so today we can't say that's for sure. Such very serious doubts were raised at the committee meeting. I don't want to talk about my grades because I'm not here for this. I'm supposed to tell you what happened at the committee meeting, and that's what I'd like to focus on.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u358	Thank you very much, Senator. That was the last question... Senator Robert Dowhan. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u359	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I was curious about what the senator said. It is about the unfortunate Estonian or Estonian CIT tax. Why did you use the term "wretched"? And the second question is, didn't the committee go to the trouble of explaining to the ministry how taxes are being lowered in other countries, because now is the time of pandemic, because there is a crisis, such as energy prices, fuel prices, etc... Other countries apply different types of reductions, the Czech Republic lowers the tax to 15% , VAT in neighbouring countries goes down, and we raise taxes. Isn't that a little upside-down?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u360	There you go, Mr. Senator. It's a short one.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u361	Your marshal says I should answer briefly, so I would answer briefly in this way: different countries accept different solutions. Many members of our committee thought it would be better to reduce taxes than to complicate them. I'm not saying that they're all raised, because they're not all raised, but they're more complex, they're clearly visible today. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Thank you very much. And that was the last...]] [[The miserable Estonian...]] The unfortunate Estonian, because, as I say, everyone in the committee, including the senators, wanted this tax to work, but in practice it worked in a very limited way, this was also spoken of by the representatives of the Ministry on several occasions, and therefore it is being worked on to make it actually work. For us, it was also unfortunate because... unfortunate, but not in such a dramatic sense, because I do not want to use such phrases here, just because it does not include all entrepreneurs, that it was aimed at the chosen. This is why it would be better if entrepreneurs turned into companies governed by commercial law, because they could benefit from the Estonian tax. That was the conclusion, because I was wondering where this problem in the form of this Estonian tax came from. That's why we said that the Estonian tax should apply to all those who do business, but then, of course, it needs to be adjusted, clarified, that's all there is to it, so... okay, that's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u362	Thank you very much. That was the last question. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Minister? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: Yes.]] You're welcome. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: Can I have it?]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u363	Great. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I should start by referring first to the comments and questions that have been raised in relation to the rapporteurs' senators, including those who submit minority proposals. With regard to issues relating to cooperative banks, to the SKOKs, here we are dealing with a solution that is actually the result of the ATAD Directive, namely the one aimed at combating tax avoidance and the transfer of funds to tax havens. The general direction of the directive, which Poland must also implement, is the implementation of a limitation on the cost of obtaining income for debt financing from related parties in the part in which these funds were spent on capital transactions, e.g. for the acquisition of shares in companies, the payment of subsidies, possibly an increase in share capital. In the case of cooperative banks and SKOKs, the Ministry of Finance did not receive any comments during the public consultation. First of all, first of all, in public space, second of all, in correspondence which began to enter the Ministry of Finance and the High House only in recent weeks. The Ministry of Finance analysed the conclusions that flowed from the market to us. Following contact with the National Tax Administration, which stated that the risk of taking funds outside Poland through such entities is completely minimal, without being established in the course of proceedings... Well, we've been advised that it's safe to accept this kind of amendment tabled by Senator Bierecki. This also comes with the general trend supported by the Financial Supervision Commission, that these cooperative entities should support themselves in the event of liquidity problems and that they also cooperate in a much greater extent than non-cooperative entities. Hence a positive recommendation from the Ministry of Finance for this solution. In the case of the second question that has been raised here, namely the combination of the relief for return, i.e. PIT zero for returners, with PIT zero for young people, I would like to explain once again how both of these regulations work. PIT zero is actually an increase in the tax-free amount or a deduction of PLN 85 000 500 per year to these specific categories. In the case of persons employed under a contract of employment and related relations, this increases the costs of... Sorry, it increases the tax-free amount. So that a young person up to the age of twenty-six will pay the tax only from the first zloty earned next year from 30 thousand PLN plus 85 thousand PLN 500, which is about 115 thousand 500 PLN. In the case of PIT zero for young people, this applies to employment on the basis of a contract of employment, while in the case of PIT zero for returnees it applies not only to employment contracts but also to business activities, both in terms of accounting on the basis of... no, on the tax scale as well as in lineage, 19%. and a lump sum from registered revenues. So that if a person would return to Poland after 3 years of absence of a tax residence in Poland to the twenty-sixth year of age, there would certainly be no possibility of relief, because the deduction would be one, while this person would be able to choose a solution which would be more beneficial for him, due to the wider scope of the zero PIT for returners. If it were to pursue an economic activity, it could successfully choose this path and this option. So that there is no possibility of combining both of these solutions, while in the case of their coincidence it is simply possible to choose a more favourable solution. Dear Marshal, High Izbo, I will now refer to the whole presented by the government side of the project. Speaking before such an esteemed body, I would first of all like to ask you to reflect on the package of solutions presented, as well as to consider whether all the amendments, all the allegations, including those relating to non-constitutionality, which were raised during this discussion and the joint work with the Senate Legislative Office, are justified. First of all, I would like to appeal to your historical memory, to the historical memory of this House. Certainly, many of you remember what was called the years of the emerging free economy, the 1990s, the changes, the reforms which Prime Minister Balcerowicz was the patron of. If I asked you today about the assessment of these actions, I would certainly have met with various assessments. On the one hand, it would be clear that it was a completely new quality in economic life, that it was a very positive change that opened us up to the market economy. On the other hand, there would be a polarly distant opinion on how to define this period as disaster, chaos and a wild market economy. There's a reason I'm calling the '90s today. When I listened to a lot of speeches, also during today's discussion and our meeting in the framework of the two sittings of the Senate Committee, I was very much reminded of the voices that could then be heard about the proposed changes. The solutions that you have now practically planted under the blade of the guillotine are being criticised in a way that could be praised by a statement that it was simply already done. Why do I say that? Today we are also at the point of breakthrough in Poland's economic development. Today, however, we come before the High House with a project which, unlike those violent changes in the 1990s, is not a revolution in the tax system. On the contrary, it is the catching up of many, many years of negligence and past events that have been weighing on us since the early 1990's. It is precisely this cleaning up the negligence of the last 30 years of tax law making that is a key task that the Ministry of Finance and the entire government have placed before them. The project, which I am pleased to present today, is a very big step just towards the construction of a modern, fair and above all competitive tax system in Poland. During the debate at the meeting of the Sejm committee, such statements as: an absurd project, unimaginable and unenforceable. I think of other words: a project brave, bold, visionary. This is a project where I can say with a clear conscience that it was also worth listening to a lot of repeated criticisms over many months, often completely unjustified. This is a project that for many months was created in the Ministry of Finance, which was created in the field of the Council of Ministers and the Sejm. It is also the result of many months of negotiations with business associations, business representatives, representatives of the advisory industry and accounting environment. This is the project that, with the influx of opinions from the market, is being modified: a discount for the middle class for entrepreneurs, a lower premium rate for companies clearing a linear tax, a simple and at the same time progressive contribution of clearing persons roared from registered revenues. These are just examples of elements that have emerged in this project through a very intense dialogue with entrepreneurs. And it is hard to believe that where there is real dialogue, where there is real cooperation and a real multi-month joint work on the project, very many of you do not want to see good legislative practice. On the contrary, many of you call the consultation process patching. It rains: the patch on the patch, the chaos, at the end even mentioned today a great mess. Well, the real effect on the content of these consultation provisions is what you call other than Frankenstein's tax stitching. Well, it's very difficult to agree with this calling into question the exact standards that we're all really fighting for, the standards of dialogue, consultation, and so those that you in this House have repeatedly, repeatedly, asked for. And returning to the case of the project itself, I will say that it is a project which will restore fundamental justice in the Polish tax system, will introduce the Polish system in the 21st century and will align this Polish system with the state-of-the-art tax systems currently operating in Europe with the French, German or British system. For the first time we will see what has been functioning in the West for decades and is a total standard there, i.e. the tax-free amount that protects against taxation. Who, huh? Minimum wages, the provision of the vast majority of pensioners. Because it is a system with real tax progression, with a departure from the past of the 1990s, which can be summarised with the words: the higher the earnings, the lower the tax and the lower the percentage premium. But this is not all, because it is a project that will give the Polish economy fuel for rapid development in the coming years, will give Poland a strong position in competition with other countries of our region. It is also a project that will put our tax system, in terms of investment attractiveness, in the company of not our neighbours, such as Lithuania, the Czech Republic, Slovakia or Hungary, but alongside those countries that have already implemented the solutions that we are proposing from next year, i.e. beside Singapore, Taiwan, South Korea and other major production centres in the world, but also Europe, such as the UK, France and Germany already mentioned. This is a recipe for a yellow top leader in terms of the attractiveness of placing big investments, production centers, R &amp; D centres or shared services centers. Moreover, these are not only solutions for big business, because around big investments coming to Poland there will also be the creation of an entire ecosystem of Polish entities, which will use such contracting entities, thanks to big and stable contracts will develop, with small become medium, with medium large. The project that we present is also a huge unprecedented investment impulse for Polish companies, a double-acting impulse, because on the one hand It will increase the availability of funds for investment by facilitating the merger of an investor with a company that urgently needs funds for development and, on the other hand, these are regulations that will make investment for companies simply cheaper. As a result of tax solutions, pro-investment discounts for the same amount and with the same capital, a larger investment will simply be possible than before. Dear Marshal, High Izbo, it is difficult to make such changes and these general directions on the ability to develop, to expand modern production, to modernise business processes on the side of companies to call absurd, unimaginable or unreal. On the contrary, they are right, necessary, and even, I would say, urgently, really urgently needed. Therefore, a hot recommendation from the Ministry of Finance to ensure that the rules we are discussing today come into force as soon as possible, because their rapid implementation will make it possible, instead of increasing the distance to European economic centres, to overcome and reduce them even more quickly. This is a huge opportunity for the Polish economy, an opportunity on which we simply cannot afford to translate and put forward, into the future. During the work on the Senate forum, a lot of questions were raised about the short term for work on the law itself. Here I would like to emphasize that business solutions packages have been made available to entrepreneurs on the website of the Ministry of Finance since the second half of May, practically every week in May and June, another package of regulations was made available. The whole of the project was made available for public consultation, already in mid-July, and the consultation itself lasted for a long time, 5 weeks from 26 July to 30 August. Most importantly, it was a consultation that had a real impact on the design. The result is a few dozen solutions that have been developed jointly with the market, such as a mid-range discount for clearing companies on a tax scale, a reduction in health contributions from 9% to 4.9%. for linear traders, a simplified way to settle the health contribution for lump sums, a reduction in the health contribution for clearing persons with a tax card, a significant extension of time limits for the settlement of health and social contributions Not until the fifth, tenth or fifteenth day of the following month, but until the 20th day, and from the amount of income calculated a month earlier. Next: replacing the return credit with a much more favourable solution in the form of PIT zero for returnees, extending the period for the use of tax credits to 6 years, reducing the tax rate, including PIT and CIT, in Estonian CIT for small taxpayers from 25% to 20%, and for larger ones from 30% to 25%. These solutions are really many and these are the elements that are the result of this very good dialogue with business. This project has simply evolved and the designer at every stage, including the last stage of the Senate, is open to this project to modify so that it becomes better and better. One can say that the symbol of openness to change, to cooperation, to co-create these solutions with our partners is that taxpayers' pockets will simply have more than twice as much money as originally assumed. This project was to be a historic tax reduction, which will leave 8 billion PLN in the pockets of Polish taxpayers. As a result of the project, which is the subject of analyses, deliberations and votes of the High House in taxpayers' pockets today, over 17 billion zlotys will be in total next year. So that the historical tax reduction, but much, much, much bigger than the one that was planned in May, precisely as a result of the dialogue with business environments, accountants, advisors. There were also harsh words in this Chamber concerning the procedure for the work on the law, the allegations concerning the length of the vacathio legis and the demands for putting the reform forward by at least one year. Well, it's up to you to ask the question of whose interest it is to put such a reform on the shelf. Well, certainly not pensioners, of which 90% will benefit from these changes, certainly not workers who will benefit from 60, 65% , certainly not entrepreneurs who are looking for capital for the development of their business and want to enter into the process of increased investment, certainly not people who wish to have the tools to negotiate fair employment terms with their employer and would not want to be pushed, often contrary to their interest, into unfavourable forms of employment, into civil law agreements. We can ask ourselves what we need, whether we need for this next year, for which economic growth is projected to be between 4.5 and 5.5%. GDP, or even more, evening out market opportunities and strong investment impulses, or perpetuating certain past events, which for many, many years, can be said, restraining Polish entrepreneurship, keeping it in place. I firmly believe that equality against the law is the freedom of the entrepreneur, but also the rights of the worker. The law should take his side as soon as possible and in a strong way. The solution to which many questions have been raised concerns JPK CIT and PIT. This is a proposal for entrepreneurs to report automatically to the Ministry of Finance, electronic records, from 2023. I am very sorry to hear about the unconstitutionality of this solution. What are the facts? This is a 100% safe solution for consumers. The charge, the argument that public authorities can obtain more information about citizens than is necessary, is simply fake news. I am also asking all of you here to take part in our meeting to fight this kind of thesis at every stage, and to talk to entrepreneurs, and to talk to the tax advisors or accountants' environments. First of all, this is a solution that will only apply to companies and will only apply to the volume and value of trading between them. This is a solution that will give us fair competition for companies and also less control on their side. The automatic transmission of data administration will also make it possible for entrepreneurs to repeat the success achieved in the case of VAT between 2016 and 2020. It is sufficient to recall that the VAT gap has decreased at least three times during this period, with 25% up to approximately 8%. Luka CIT has also decreased in recent years, according to research by the Polish Economic Institute from 2% to 1% GDP. In case of the implementation of electronic reporting, in case of the implementation of algorithms that will assist the administration in examining the activities of entities in the market, the effect of further, even double reduction of the CIT gap in Poland can be achieved, and let us remember that it is still estimated according to different studies between 50% a 30% , at least this was the estimate for the years 2016-2018. In the perspective of the years 2024 and 2025, that is, the period during which these systems will start to work, this gap may decrease several times. As I mentioned, the greater precision of control through such analytical systems will ensure that checks are not disturbed by honest taxpayers. Now the efficiency of VAT controls has increased several times in the case of activities of the National Tax Administration, thanks to the use of modern tools for typing entities to control, without disorganising the work of honest entrepreneurs. So it is a huge opportunity to increase the quality of administration's work, equal opportunities on the market and finally to simply make the conditions of competition on the Polish market fairer. Therefore, I also strongly recommend that this solution be JPK CIT, PIT automatic, electronic reporting in this project leave and also do not agree to the opinion that this solution is contrary to the constitutional principle of proportionality. It is detrimental to the point that this law states that a proposal has been made in the framework of the parliamentary amendment to eliminate tax advantages for single parents. Here I would like to remind you that the current joint settlement of a single parent with a single child raised by him will be replaced by a tax deduction of PLN 1 thousand 500 per year, which is more than the average benefit of the common taxation of a parent with a child, which last tax year amounted to about PLN 1 thousand 100 per year. And that's the effect only associated with this 1 change. However, also thanks to the use of a whole range of other tools, also implemented by the Polish Ład, we have here assurance that practically no single parent will lose much of the child on the Polish Łada. Why? Firstly, by significantly increasing the tax-free amount, secondly, by raising the tax threshold, but also through another 2 tools, which are very little spoken of and which are absolutely crucial: one is PIT 0 for families 4+, 335 million PLN, which next year will remain in the portfolios of about 110 000 parents, and the other is to increase the amount of refund granted to parents who benefit from the child relief. Well, thanks to a significant increase in the tax-free amount, there will be a lot of parents who simply will not be able to deduct the child benefit from it, hence, on our part, a significant increase in the maximum refund of this allowance in cash to the parent. This kind of tool will make more money to 550 000 parents, who will receive about 400 million PLN more next year. So that it is a whole system of support for families raising children, a system that guarantees the care of people in a difficult family situation and, above all, those who earn less, who are in a difficult situation not only family but above all social. As far as mid-class reliefs are concerned, this is the solution that the market has been very urgent about, and it has been called upon to apply them to businesses as well. During the last committee meeting, we were very surprised to discover that this solution could become unconstitutional in the current formula. In fact, it was considered that the relief for the average cashier may infringe the principle of tax equality. And this is what happens after practically many, many months of cooperation with the market, which has made it very clear that we need to implement this solution, and it is in this formula, which eventually found itself in the draft law. Our question is, what happened? Well, the point that we can make is that it's not about political accusations, it's just about the fact that the role of the mid-class relief could have just been less understood in the course of parliamentary work. And that's two words of explanation. What is the essence of fair taxation according to the Polish Order? This essence can be summarized actually in 4 points, 4 key actions. First: no minimum wage tax; second: a lower burden on people who earn up to the average wage of workers and entrepreneurs; third: no change in taxation and cover-up, i.e. the burden of business for entrepreneurs and workers whose earnings are between the national average and its double; last element: a gradual increase in taxation and cover-ups for persons who earn more than twice the national average. This is the theme of changes of the Polish Load and also the theme for which solutions were created, which were baptized by the media with a relief for the middle class, i.e. simply an algorithm that makes earners at the level between the national average and its twice the proposed changes will not lose. The principle of equality is without prejudice in the opinion of the Ministry of Finance to the distinction between employees of contractors and entrepreneurs, since each of these categories of professionally active persons settles taxes on each other on the right principles, e.g. clearing on the contract-order has 20% of the cost of obtaining income, which is much more than e.g. an employee who has flat-rate costs laid down by law. The situation of the trader's taxable person at a linear rate, which will benefit from a health contribution of 4,9%, is still different. Total compensation for all entrepreneurs precisely this discount for the middle class completely misses the goal, because it is a very precise solution, tailored to the needs of a very specific category of clearing people in a very specific way. Dear Marshal, High Izbo, we could continue to discuss every argument, every charge that came from the courtroom. If necessary, of course we are open to it and ready. In closing my speech, I would like to emphasise once again, to speak to you, to call for reflection and consideration, so that in some way the flood of amendments which were recommended by the Senate committee can be modernised. Our aim should be to build a tax system that will be fair, pro-investmental, one that will make the Polish economy grow rapidly, in the interest of the Polish entrepreneur, the Polish employee and in a natural way also public finances, which greatly benefit from the expansion of the tax base and from the fact that the market is good. And we want things to get better. It was not done so... that such a fair, good, pro-investment tax system was not built when its foundations were laid, i.e. in the 1990s. This time, thanks to our changes, it will be completely different. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u364	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u365	I'll start with a compliment. Minister, I really love listening to you because you're putting me in an optimistic, even euphoric mood. I'm talking about it in the context of this yellow leader's shirt. But I have one simple question. When you were here exactly a year ago, in October 2020, you presented Estonian CIT. You said that the conditions for using Estonian CIT were defined so that in the first year of its operation it would be available to more than 200,000 companies, i.e. for more than 90% active capital companies active in Poland. Tell me about the play. 'Cause I know you already have the data. How many companies have benefited from this solution. [[Voice from O.R.: 5?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Well, 337. [[Art.]] Art.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u366	Thank you very much. Senator Alexander Swed. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u367	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I would like to begin by thanking you very much for answering the previous question that I asked the rapporteur. It was about the possibility of combining relief for young people and relief for the return. Well, I had basically five questions, but in this very good report by the Minister for the 4 of them I have already received an answer. I would also like to ask about rehabilitation relief, about changes in the regulation of rehabilitation relief, which is a relief that is granted to disabled people. What are the unlimited and limited expenses here? And what will be the lower limit of this expenditure?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u368	Thank you. There you go... [[If you don't mind, tell me more about it.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u369	Indeed, as part of the changes proposed in the Polish Load package, rehabilitation relief will also be extended. The catalogue of expenditure, both limited and unlimited, is increasing. In the case of unlimited expenditure, the catalogue of these expenditures shall be extended to include expenditure which has not previously been covered by that catalogue, e.g. for the purchase of diapers. No, it's about the limited ones. As for the unlimited, I understand that it is, among other things. for a guardian's stay with a disabled person on a rehabilitation tournament.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u370	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Jacek Bury.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u371	Minister, your statement shows that we have a really fantastic future ahead of us for Poland and for investment in Poland. Because you said that what you're creating is going to translate into an amazing investment climate. But from what I know and what all the experts say, it's true that investors are most afraid of the instability of the law. And what you've been funding for a long time is a very unstable law. We also know TVN Kazus here. In fact, power tried to claim private property. And I'd like to ask if it makes sense that you're creating such a great investment climate, and the investment isn't coming. This investment climate, when it comes to legal change, is not there. Does it hold up or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u372	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u373	Dear Senator, we are in current contact with chambers of commerce and industry operating in Poland, with the Polish-French and Polish-German Chamber. We also meet with entrepreneurs, with big investors, with representatives of Polish branches of large multinational companies, who are telling us directly: introduce solutions that have worked out well in the great economic centers of the world. And this is the standard that a great investor expects. A great investor needs not low taxes, but above all a high standard of service and low tax costs. And now, just through the package of Polish Load, we create this kind of coherent system of pro-investment incentives. The first element of it is a total novelty in Poland, namely the investment agreement, i.e. the possibility of concluding... Before the entity enters the Polish market or before it enters the stage of extensive investment by the entity already operating here, it will be possible to apply to the Minister of Finance for 1 opinion, 1 document, which will sum up all the tax consequences of a often very complicated investment plan. Previously, actually today, in order to gain such full knowledge of the project, it would be necessary to apply for several interpretations in 6 different types: individual interpretations of tax law, binding joint information, binding excise information, prior price agreements. We will now join the 4 countries of the European Union which already offer such services. In fact, Poland will probably be the fourth such country, because it is now functioning in Italy, Hungary and Slovakia. And this is a prescription for uncertainty about how a great investor will be taxed, because he will actually get one document from the highest tax authorities, one guarantee regarding the amount of taxation. On the other hand, it is a question of the cost of handling the tax. Poland still belongs to quite a few countries of the European Union where access to tax groups is very limited and where there is no possibility to create tax groups for VAT purposes. This makes the costs of operating the business, especially if it is carried out with the help of many entities, often dealing with different branches of business, e.g. operating, carrying out investment activities, transport, services and goods production... These are all elements of often one large business plan, which is still fragmented and taxed at the level of individual companies. Thanks to the solutions implemented under the Polish Order, for the first time in history, there will be the possibility that only one entity from the group who will account for all these entities and income taxes and VAT will be responsible for the whole of the business venture, and the settlement between the related parties will not be subject to privatisation. It is a huge savings and time, and formalities, but above all huge liquidity support for companies that will operate in Poland through a complex structure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u374	Thank you very much. That was the last question. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Adam Szejnfeld. [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Tomasz Grodzki]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u375	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo! There are requests to speak for three minutes, but I don't know if I can control my emotions in three minutes after hearing the Minister. But in fact, I think we live in two completely different realities, Minister. Because this brick that you sent to the Sejm and which we are discussing today in the Senate, according to everyone who knows about legislation, not only this economic, tax, but not at all on legislation, should be developed in the sense of parliamentary legislation, because I am not talking about government legislation anymore for two to three years. And the state in the Sejm has been working on it for two or three days. You want us to do the same thing here in the Senate. And you want to convince the public that this bill, this project, has been consulted socially? Then why were the social partners, why business organisations, employers, economic organisations, experts who were invited here to the Senate, but by us, say that there was no consultation? They weren't in the actual sense, because it's technically possible to do all of this to each other, so that on paper it's consistent. That's why, unfortunately, this minister doesn't give us a good sense of humor. As we read in this bill and these proposals, it is difficult to be in a good mood. Why? Because yes, it is a great reform of the law, in this case one of the most important rights, because tax laws. Why do I say one of the most important things? Because taxes, at least in a normal country, must be paid by everyone and must be universal. On this basis, they will no longer be common, because they will be excluded from this. But most importantly, the law is not only to be, as it has been mentioned here, clear, simple, transparent, legible, but also feasible. And you're proposing... Here you praise the issue of the period of entry into force of this law, that is, what is so wisely called vacathio legis. You say you're okay. Yes, you and your department are fine, but not for millions of citizens, taxpayers. It is practically impossible to say that for 20 million or 24 million, only for 38 million, because this law applies to children and pensioners, all, because we are a taxpayer either directly or indirectly. This is even a question of our criticism of changing the tax system for single parents. Why do I say this bill serves you and not taxpayers? Because the taxpayer will be obliged from the first day of the entry into force of this law, from 1 January 2022, if, of course, you reject our application for an extension of the vacathio legis, and I already announce that we will submit it... The taxpayer will have to apply this bill, and he will not be allowed to make a mistake, not even a mistake. And you will be allowed to, because you will have five years to learn. I want to say that this bill will ruin judicial case law and administrative interpretation, everything will have to be re-created. The caselaw is created about 10 and 15 years old, and administrative interpretation is created for several years. You will have time to learn what you have written here, and you will be updating it repeatedly, correcting it repeatedly, I guarantee for it, and I can bet on it with any of you, but the taxpayer, the citizen in a moment, in these few weeks, will have to, unlike you, know everything and carry it out well. I would like to say that in fact there is no professional, business, employee environment that this law would not affect in a negative way. Yes, there are also positive solutions in it, and only for these reasons will we not reject it, Minister, but there is, as I said, no group that it would not have affected negatively. If I don't value it, I'll give you examples. As far as employees are concerned, it will at least touch the better earners. That is not enough, this law creates tax traps, also in terms of the so-called. Reductions for the middle class. The bill will also hit freelancers. That is why we will be making amendments that will restore the normal functioning of these within the tax system. To a large extent, it will hit entrepreneurs and, worst of all, the smallest Polish small companies, mainly micro-enterprises. They will risk the most after the law enters into force. As I said in my questions, you are de facto eliminating what is an absolute value for micro-entrepreneurs, i.e. Simple tax, little bureaucracy. The company, which employs 1, 2 or 3 people, that is average employment in Poland, is not able to afford to employ tax collectors, accountants, experts, not every hairdresser and not every tinker is an expert in tax law. The state is so de facto eliminating from the practical application of the tax card by these micro-entrepreneurs, but even a lump sum registered, and, most importantly, a linear tax. You all want to push properly into taxation on a scale, very difficult and expensive. The minimum tax you sell, you advertise as a tax against large companies, against foreign companies, against dishonest companies. In addition, companies should not be referred to in this way. In fact, if no amendments are adopted, which we will report today, they will also hit small Polish companies, even because you introduce tax and revenue, and at de facto cost, if there is no profit, and without a limit. Yes, in Europe, yes, in the world, e.g. in the United States, such tax systems are introduced, but they set limits, do not apply to small and medium-sized enterprises. And you want to treat everyone equally: an international concern and a hairdresser. But not any more companies that you consider to be your own, because you disable them, for example. State Treasury companies. Like I said, there's no environment that this bill wouldn't have adversely affected. It will also affect the disabled, people with disabilities That's why we're proposing amendments. He's going to touch the retirees. Worst of all, it will hit the acquired rights, it will even undermine what we call an institution of citizen trust in the state. Because the state calls for people to work long hours, to retire late to get higher is retirement. It's mostly those that you're going to touch with the new rules. Those who worked long, worked hard, didn't retire, and then had more to old age to worry about, if there was enough money in the pharmacy for medicine, you'd want to cut your pension. He's gonna hit... [[Mr. Senator, time.]] I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal, then. This will affect family relations, and I have mentioned the issues of settling single persons with children. Few will hit social organizations, NGOs, Senator Kwiatkowski fortunately has tabled an amendment, and we will try to save them. Of course, it will affect the interests of local governments and their budgets. And in those who invest. The level of investment in Poland has been the worst in 2 decades, and you want to deepen it further. I'm going to give one good example of a lack of time, so real estate investment, an apartment. You are completely depreciating depreciation, which is one of the important elements of the cost of carrying out this type of activity. People in Poland have nowhere to live. For the past six years, you have not been able to introduce any good, effective, efficient system for citizens to acquire housing, and now you want to kill this market because it won't be worth doing business in this area unless someone is doing it charity. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To conclude, I would like to say that we are making a lot of amendments, including those tabled with Marshal Mark Borowski, with President Kazimierz Kleina. But one of them or one of their groups, because we are creating very broad and flexible solutions for vacathio legis there, is absolutely fundamental. And I appeal here today in the Senate, trusting and believing that the Senate will accept these amendments, to the Members of Parliament: if you do not share our views on anything else, your cause, your life will verify it anyway, but please accept the amendments on the vacathio legis. It cannot be that every citizen in this country will confess on 1 January 2022, but officials will not. These 12 months of vacathio legis, although to a small extent, will give a chance to level the positions of the taxpayer and the official. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u376	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Borowski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u377	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! First of all, I would like to apologize to the Minister, but after this speech I will unfortunately be forced to leave the room for personal reasons. This will not be an expression of disregard for the Minister. I'm gonna have to read a possible polemic in the transcript. Minister, I have heard from your mouth a very special pean about this bill. I had the impression that we were reading some other documents: I was different and you were different. In the Sejm at the session of the Sejm Committee on Legal Affairs, the Sejm stated that it was unable to present a full list of amendments, legislative amendments and others, because there was no time for this. You said everything was fine. This is a disgrace to parliamentarianism if the Legislative Office is unable to deal with such a project. In the Senate we had a little more time and our Legislative Office carefully analysed this project. On this occasion, I would like to thank the office, and especially the patron Peter Magda, who has done a great deal of work so that we, the senators, can see what is in this text, how to understand various kinds of records. I will talk less about individual issues, although they will appear. I was interested in something else. Namely, how does this law respond to the fundamental challenges facing the Polish economy, the Polish society? In addition to climate issues, there are several such important challenges. First of all, we have a very small natural growth. Secondly, there is a shortage of workers while women 60+ and men 65+ are rapidly out of the labour market. Thirdly, there is a dramatically low level of investment. Therefore, as big, historical as government propaganda claims, tax reform cannot address these problems. So let's see how it applies. First, it's the children's issue. He's here, in another law, the one about the capital... the capital... the security... [[Voice from the O.R.: Caretaker.]] Excuse me? [[Voice from the O.R.: Caretaker.]] Yeah, caring. ...about the custody capital, the introduction of another 500+, this time for 2 years, and in this bill we have a huge, because 85 thousand, additional amount free for the parents of four children. And yet 500+ did not help, on the contrary, the number of birthdays decreased, while in the last 12 months we recorded the lowest number of birthdays since 1946. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. and Mrs. Senators, please really focus.]] Does the government analyze this? No. Does he listen to demographics? Not at all. The government has a philosophy: it doesn't work; we'll add some more gold, or more of the same. It's not gonna work. The woman and, more broadly, the parents need a free day care and kindergarten, a well-functioning and long-functioning classroom in schools, good medical care, and finally a woman needs a guarantee that she will be able to continue her professional career without obstacles. It all takes money. But the government is betting on individual transfers, especially when elections are coming up. The family wants to have children, especially more than one, needs a friendly, helpful, empathetic environment today, and this is not and is getting worse. The pissants of politicians that do everything they can to help the family and to give birth to more children are empty words. You told the minister that, well, big deal and great success, because families with four children will receive an additional amount of free, 85 grand. And I'd like to ask, who's gonna benefit from that? Mr Bortniczuk, the happy father of four children, made this proposal with a shot at the tape at the second reading. Well, congratulations, of course. But let's see, let's take a Pole who makes 6,000 gross zlotys, it's not a bad salary, and he's got four kids. Let's see if he can take advantage of this $85,000 free amount. Almost not at all. His benefit will be PLN 400, PLN 100 per child. And Mr Bortniczuk, now Minister We know how much money he's making. It will benefit from this amount of PLN 27 thousand... [[Voice from the room: Family on your...]] That's $7,000 a kid. This is how the Law and Justice care about families of many children, but, as you can see, not all of them. Second, retirees. PiS has reduced retirement age, and now encourages seniors not to retire but to work. To such seniors in the bill, the government funds an additional, again 85 thousand free money. Retired people are gonna be so happy and nothing's gonna change. That's not gonna encourage anybody to give up their pension, 'cause that kind of resignation is an average loss of 2.5. A thousand zlotys a month, and the tax advantage is 300, 400 zlotys a month. So, a fictional solution, but the TV news will show up benevolently smiling Prime Minister and he will be able to wrap and sell this proposal nicely. By the way, 300,000 pensioners with pensions higher than PLN 4 000 800 gross on New Deal loses. I will tell you more: they also lose pensioners who have a short internship and who have pensions below 900 PLN. 800, 700, 600 PLN They all lose. This is ridiculous. Well, for the first time in 30 years... It has not happened that any government has decided, without any compelling reason, to reduce their pension to anyone. And that's what they call it. Polish Lodz, of course, yes. This is the case with 300,000 of these so-called. rich pensioners, which have 4 000 800 PLN gross and a little more, and 250 thousand those who have very low pensions. [[And 13? What about 14?]] I am, of course, proposing an amendment with Senators Szejnfeld and Kleina, but this is outrageous. They're people. No krezushi, after all. They worked for 45 years or even more and earned a higher pension. These are also miners working longer than average in the mine. And here is the hypocrisy of the government: on the one hand, it encourages longer work, on the other hand, what they have listened to cuts their pension. But, as President Kaczyński himself said, only smart people lose on this reform. That's what you do, and that's what you say. You just slap these people. Third, investments. Within 6 years, you have effectively reduced the level of investment in Poland to the historically lowest level compared to GDP. Mateusz Morawiecki declared in his time that Poland would be removed from the middle development trap, while he put us in this trap even deeper. And yet a lower tax has been introduced for small companies, Estonian CIT, quicker depreciation. So? Nothing, it's worse. And no reflection, no attempt to find an answer to the question of why this is happening. Philosophy reigns: more of the same. In this bill we have relief for robotics, improvement of Estonian CIT, maybe something else... Okay, but it's not gonna help. Investments need three things: firstly, an understandable, non-parallel interpretation of the tax system; secondly, the belief that the authorities do not treat entrepreneurs as potential frauds; thirdly, the guarantee that the courts are independent of the authorities, which also does not come to judge independence. None of these conditions are met. This law, as always created on the knee, will complicate and obscure the tax system, hence the minimum that is necessary, is the longer vacathio legis and we have tabled an amendment on this matter. When it comes to the attitude of fiscal authority, the prosecutor to entrepreneurs, it's a terrible situation. In your time, you have passed a law that allows you to take the company as collateral against the charges that have not yet been confirmed by the court. There are more muzzle laws like this, and the biggest pest in your government, Zbigniew Ziobro, has made it, and you have been unthinkable about his miserable ideas. This law also includes the possibility of requisitioning the company for 4 days, violating the privacy of the trader and commercial secrecy by ordering all documents produced in the company to be sent to the tax office, as well as treating small and medium-sized companies as tax fraud when they show a loss or too little profit, and imposing some kind of tax advantage on them. Of course, and as for this, we are proposing an appropriate amendment. The Minister questioned the transfer of this data, but I can honestly say that I believe our legislator more in this matter. And finally, the rule of law. The same pest has led to complete instability, and often to paralysis of the judiciary, trying to subjugate the courts and judges. This has led to an acute conflict with the European Union, which could not tolerate such a brutal violation of the treaties of the EU and the European Convention on Human Rights. Now instead of quickly fulfilling the judgments of the Court of Justice and leading to calming the situation, Prime Minister Morawiecki is pouring gasoline into the fire, impersonating patriotic feathers, and actually acting against the interests of Poland and Poles, and declaring the Third World War and announcing that the government will use every available weapon to establish an autocratic system of government. I don't know what kind of weapon he's thinking about, but I'll give you one hint. They are field altars, of which production seems to have been hastyly abandoned. In conclusion, I will say this: an entrepreneur who does not understand tax regulations has no confidence in the goodwill of the authorities and there is no guarantee that, if necessary, his case will be settled by an independent court and an incompetent judge will simply not invest. Thus, in these 3 sensitive areas for Poland, i.e. demography, increased labour market activity and investment, this supposedly historic law and a violent government policy are not only improving the situation, but even aggravating it. This program was originally called New Deal, taken of course from Roosevelt and his New Deal. However, it was changed to Polish Load And very rightly, because this is not a new order, but an old Polish mess, soaked in election tactics. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u378	Thank you very much. Senator Kwiatkowski will speak. [[Mr. Marshal, could I have the floor, please?]] But what is it, Senator? [[Mr. Marshal, I would count on the Marshal to draw your attention to Marshal Borowski, because the comparison of a man, Mr. Ziobra, to a pest, in general, is that, so to speak, to exceed certain... some rules, so to speak.]] You know, Mr. Senator... [[You've been sitting there listening, Mr. Marshal...]] We have already been compared to murderers, traitorous murders, scumbags, animal elements... The word harmdoer fills here, so to speak, the mark of expression of his own opinion. And that's all. You're welcome, Senator Kwiatkowski. [[Well, I don't know if you as a doctor and marshal of the Senate should tolerate calling people pests. This is where we differ substantially, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u379	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senators! Dear guests! Today is October 27th. So that no one has any doubts, I'm gonna say there's 60 days left by the end of the year. This is the sixty-sixty days you've left until the laws you're proposing come into force. The provisions that are contained on several hundred pages of this proposal, together with the justification and tables, and as we know, often the devil is in the details. You are proposing changes in personal income tax, corporate income tax, and you are counting on the taxpayer to have a chance to read these changes in the past few weeks and to function on the basis of these amended provisions. There are, of course, positive changes in this proposal. Such favourable changes include an increase in the tax-free amount, an amendment of the thresholds. Of course, you wouldn't have to prepare for that. But the proposals you have proposed do not only cover such changes. There are many changes that are detrimental to a group of taxpayers or simply new and requiring the taxpayer to comply with the amended rules. Tax legislation should have stability. According to experts, the Polish tax system is one of the most complicated in Europe and the most complex in OECD countries. I really don't understand the philosophy of these changes. What were you doing talking about social considerations... releasing special ops agents from paying taxes? What is this important special purpose you're introducing that Special Forces agents aren't supposed to pay taxes? Continuous modernisation of tax rules introduces uncertainty, fear of taxpayers and chaos in the system. Ladies and gentlemen, please verify that. This is the expertise of the experts we were given at the meeting. The taxpayer will have two months to prepare for this change, and in five years' time, which has already fallen here, you will be able to check it and say that in the beginning of 2022 he was wrong. The stability of the law is one of the basic conditions for implementing the principle of citizen's confidence in the State and its rights. Good tax law must be stable enough for the taxpayer to predict the tax consequences of his actions. In Poland, the tax ordination was adopted in 1997 as a long-awaited act and these changes were initially not much. But the last few years are different. In 2015, this document had 104 pages and in 2019 it already has 165 pages. If the Minister in this Chamber is talking about the low costs associated with the operation of this system, then that is It's just a joke. Because I'm sure all entrepreneurs will increase their spending on the accounting system and analyze the tax changes you've made, when not only taxpayers, but even employees of tax authorities will not have a chance to prepare for these changes in such a short time. Today is the fact that the errors of the tax administration have sometimes verified the courts, but you also do not give these judges the chance to prepare for these changes. Of course, we will try to correct the main errors. I am pleased that, at the stage of work in committee and on the amendments that we will be submitting, we have prepared a decal of good changes for citizens. Firstly, the vacathio legis, which will enable taxpayers to prepare for change. Secondly, restoring a tax card for small and medium-sized companies. Why don't you like the smallest ones? Why do you keep making trouble for them, even in terms of what they've been able to use for years? It is convenient and clear, and transparent, and clear tax settlements that you are de facto eliminating in this solution. Restoring a tax card is absolutely essential. Third, why are you ruining what works well? All analyses show that the gold issued by the local government is more effective than the same gold spent by the government administration. Why do you want to take money from local governments? We're not gonna let that happen either. In this respect, an appropriate amendment will be made. We're gonna let all the free jobs work on the roar. Why don't you like white staff so much? He was the one who saved all of our lives. Tax relief for the middle class, for all pensioners. Why does the government believe that a pensioner who has worked after retirement and has a slightly higher pension is to pay taxes on worse terms than a pensioner? We're going to introduce a tax credit for the middle class, which will include contract workers. And what harm do you have to those who benefit from the help of social organizations? Why didn't you raise the tax-free amount to increase the 1% write-down for these organizations? They help people in the worst situations of their lives, where the state doesn't even have the skills to get to these people with the right help. We will also introduce the possibility of full tax relief for single-parent families. What do you think is worse for a parent who's a widower who's unlucky enough to raise a child himself? PLN 1,500 relief for a single parent. The elimination of twice the tax calculated on half the income will result in the introduction of a relief for single parents of PLN 1 000 500. The Minister says what a great offer it is. Let's take a closer look. It turns out that the proposed tax change will benefit the least earners only. In the case of a salary of PLN 3 000, the amount of tax cleared by itself of PLN 1 thousand 20 is actually less than the proposed relief. But if the taxpayer is already making a little more, 4,000 or 5,000, we're talking about a parent who raises a child or children alone. This already exceeds the amount of the relief. The change is therefore detrimental. Is this all about ideological considerations? It means that he is not to be single parents, everyone is to be in a sacramental marriage, even if this relationship is broken up because his partner beat up his wife and she left him. We will also restore the possibility of deduction of depreciation for people and apartment rental companies. This problem is unsolved by you. We haven't forgotten this shame. This government has already announced several programs that would be a breakthrough in the housing market. The breakthrough is over, and the housing problem is still important. The exemption from the additional minimum tax for small and medium-sized companies, as Senator Szejnfeld said, is another extremely necessary change. To sum up, what you have proposed, in addition to the beneficial elements, contains a lot of negative elements. And that is why the Senate, the Second Chamber of Parliament, is here to correct these errors, to make the necessary corrections so that we can say with conviction that the change in the tax system serves the citizens and does not serve the authorities. It's just like the Estonian CIT you've been talking about, that tens of thousands of companies are going to use it, and that's 337. We do not want to be ashamed of any further solutions that will in practice be difficult for taxpayers to use. We will do everything in the Senate so that Polish Load is a Polish Deal for the citizen, a taxpayer, not for the government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u380	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Blackbay will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u381	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear guests! I'll start with what Senator Frost was talking about here, making a motion for harm and pest. I will remind you that in these opinions, which as a committee We got three experts... One of them wrote that a good system is a system of neutrality, progressiveity and system approach. While this system of progressiveity is a little visible here, the others are absolutely not. But what's important? This expert wrote that the Polish tax system is today one of the worst in Europe because of its illegibility. It's already been mentioned, Minister. Why do people not invest in Poland? Not because they don't want to. It is about this element concerning the stability of the state, the judicial system, but also the stability of the law and the legibility of the law. And this expert writes that this is a decomposition anyway not the best tax system. Well, that's what the expert writes. Mr. Senator, I've drawn a definition of a pest here... The harmdoer is also the harmdoer. And here's a quote: I can't tell if Paul is a brilliant rationalizer or a visionary or a superactive pest. And I would like to say, Minister, that you are part of this, but not in this section on visionaryism. Because if what you are presenting is visionary, then we, as citizens of the Republic of Poland, thank you for such visionaryism. What is positive is the tax-free amount, raising the threshold, but this is just, as one of the experts writes, a political element. You have an incredibly readable socio-technical procedure: we give money from the budget, and the rest will work out. Well, it's not gonna work out, we're gonna lick the wounds you're gonna cause in Poland long and passionately, unfortunately. What else is the subject of experts' reservations, Minister? It's not just our whim. The expert writes that the number of errors and ambiguities will give rise to disputes between the taxpayer and the tax administration. Minister, we were together at the meeting of the budget and finance committee. And that's what it's gonna be like to talk to the taxpayer and the tax administration, as it was today on the committee, when you were making some changes at the last minute... And you can't convince us, you have no arguments. I'm not talking about Mr. Senator tracking all the mistakes you're making, and he's reporting them tonight. You're not the ones reporting them. You think this whole project is fantastic, visionary, as you say. Minister, if visionary is to be based on the fact that on 1 September a draft law with 700 pages goes to the Sejm and on 1 October the bill is passed... It's like our legislator wrote: I'm sorry, I've described all the records I've noticed, but I can't help but think that there aren't any things yet that are wrong, harmful, and so on. If this kind of revolution, as you say, is what we're doing in the last month in which it can be implemented, then what are we even talking about here? Minister, how beautiful and visionary it would be if you came with a vision, as the leading visionary of the Government of Law and Justice, presented it, and we would simulate, analyze, experts would express their opinion... But this... As our legislator said, this is not how laws are made in the Seym and in the Senate. And take it to heart. Visionary isn't about being haunted. This isn't visionary. And now a few words about who's gonna benefit from it. One of the experts did this analysis on who would benefit most from it. Well, 94% Retired people will benefit from it. Good, thank you for that. Just a question, Minister. At the previous meeting of our committee, we asked why these 6% He won't benefit from the mid-class relief... Do you remember what you said? You said it was too small a problem. Well, that's 6%. That's about 300,000 people. It's too small a problem. Retirement workers who have worked longer and have a higher pension are not eligible for mid-class relief. Well, there are two categories of pensioners you're creating here. The project presented by you will benefit 30% marriages with children. Is that what the support policy is? 30% marriages with children, 43% marriages without children. How's that... Maybe these numbers and facts are against what you're trying to tell us here? And who's gonna lose mostly? Of course, apart from entrepreneurs who will not know how to run a company, how to account, what is the interpretation of the tax office, etc. And we want to encourage them to invest... So the expert says that most of the people who raise children alone will be lost. How can you endure the relief of single parents and say, "Okay, we give you 1,500." Don't complain, it's not that bad. It's easy to say it's not the same. You said it was the same today, but when it's time, we'll sit down and count whether it's the same. We have other calculations. They will also lose those who run the farm alone. So a single person, I think Senator Kwiatkowski said that, is unacceptable to you, whether she has children or is lonely. These are, among other things. persons who are to bear the main burden of making these changes. As for the most important issues that the legislator points out... Minister, the first is a matter of non-compliance with EU law. I know that for you EU law this is the law that you want to fight, that there is a superiority of Polish law over EU law and it does not actually apply to us, that is the interpretation you have. What are you gonna do? The entire implementation process, including the IT process, is to be, so to speak, free of charge. The director or person who spoke yesterday or today at the committee meeting said: if he is not free of charge, I will not implement this project. Minister, please note that you are putting a state institution in front of such a dilemma... Doing all this with a lot of mistakes because you have to make time... The director has a month to implement this. These are paranoid things. I've already told you about the lack of co-accounting with children. The issue of mid-class relief concerns not only pensioners but also single parents. It's a periodical transmission of data, Minister, including intangible and legal values... Why do you need information about property rights or invention rights? Why do you need such knowledge and many other things? You want to know everything, and the essence of it is to answer the question whether the taxpayer pays taxes and pays taxes in due amount. This is the most important information we need. Ladies and gentlemen, the model declarations will be announced by the Minister. There's no law regulation, there's just a declaration on the Internet. It's a reproduction law. A one-off transaction worth $20,000. After all, we remember, Minister, that on October 5th, at the request of the President, we adopted something else. Sit down with the President sometime and figure out whether we should pay cash or not. We've passed a bill saying that you shouldn't, you can't, you can't force a citizen to pay in cash only, and you're saying something completely different here. Of course, it's in a way that is incompatible with the constitution. These kinds of things are unacceptable. And that's a month before they're fully implemented. Enforcement. Ladies and gentlemen, taking up mobility for up to 96 hours, but not from delivery, only from the moment of signing... So the decision-maker signed, we take it away for 96 hours, you come in and you don't have anything anymore. You can't even appeal because it has to be taken care of. Minister, such examples can be multiplied, for example... there are two more examples. Ladies and gentlemen, if you will... [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal, I'm restricting my speech, although I have here... If one of you is doing business and pays for six months for a big ZUS because he was wrong... Do you know how much time you have to take this on your own initiative? 30 days. And if you don't get it in 30 days, it's gone. [[That's what I didn't know.]] There you go, Mr. Senator, be vigilant, be vigilant. And now it's a matter of tax ordination. The court is closed in four cases, an application to the administrative court. It's Mr. Legislator who's also picking up. Ladies and gentlemen, for now, you're doing everything you can to make sure the judges are what you want them to be. But to keep people from filing a complaint at the administrative court... well, I can't imagine it anymore. And that's why, Minister, less visionary, more positive work, more planning and less chaos. Like you said, it's a really big renovation, it's really such a big renovation site. Well, it's a pity this is a square where there's a mess, chaos. As one of the present said here, it is such a peerless renovation, without composition, without order. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u382	Thank you very much. Senator Robert Dowhan will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u383	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Gentlemen of the Senators, because I don't see... Oh, no, you too. Dear Ministry! A lot of words came up, I had a lot of cards prepared, I had a lot of questions, but it's late hour, and our questions aren't gonna get much. After the Minister's statement, which we know each other very well, because we have had the opportunity to cooperate on the subject of the extension of excise duty, and it has worked out for us professionally, for which, Minister, once again, I thank you on behalf of many people who have traded excise goods... At one of the meetings, I was asked to ask the Ministry or the people who are here today, and the minister, how you felt when you were so eager to force the Solidarity Fund, you said that everything was cool, it was beautiful that it would serve such, not other purposes... At the last Senate meeting, we had the opportunity to hear the objectives of the Solidarity Fund, like people who work hard, have to pay a lot of money and what this money is then spent on. It's like ad vocem because I got a request from a lot of people who made me ask. You said there were meetings. Yeah, we dated... But here I have... The Minister told me so nicely that there were so many meetings, consultations... There's an organization of entrepreneurs like Leviathan, I'm sure you've heard of it. And I will quote here what they said: "All of Poland Load is an example of how not to make law. The Polish Character is chaotic, it has no coherent thought. The bill is so huge and so complicated that the Sejm's lawyers couldn't even take care of it and washed their hands. They informed that due to the number of changes and the short duration of work they were unable to prepare a legislative and legislative opinion for the project. They pointed out that a brief analysis of the project had already allowed a number of legislative errors, such as incorrect references to other provisions, incorrect marks of editorial units, incorrect legislative commands, many language errors, typos, lost words, punctuation errors, syntax errors, flexions, and that the Legislative Office could not take responsibility for the terrible shape of the rules. It's an indication of the organization I mentioned. Is that how you make this law, Minister? It's just such a long period of consultation, meetings, reflections... And what is most important is that if entrepreneurs are to prepare for the Sejm, perhaps in the Sejm they will still change how to prepare their IT systems, how are they going to convert all of this, how are they going to make money? You know that the margin is dropping, that we're all really in some kind of crisis, smaller or bigger. It affects prices, it affects inflation. We don't know how the pandemic is going to develop. We're watching now... Today there are 6,000 infections. Won't there be more, won't there be a lockdown, or will the companies again not be able to work as they have worked so far? Because they're not working. Don't you see that it's all so... I don't know... Did you guys get any bonuses for that? Do they pay you to write cards? I don't get it. Minister, would you dare do business today? First of all, you have to have an idea for business, you have to come up with something, whether it's in production or in IT or whatever. But to start a business, you have to have some capital. If you don't have any capital, you have to go to the bank. We also need a loan. You have to find a place, you have to hire employees, you have to buy furniture, you have to buy a car. You've reduced something here too, putting a limit of 150 grand, and now I've read that you're limiting it again. Well, you don't care, because when you drive a business car, you don't pay the insurance costs, the loading costs, the services, the tire exchange, you don't worry about the depreciation, the lease payments you want to change and change. Well, that's not what you're worried about. Do you realize that the entrepreneur also incurs a lot of costs, which are not mentioned at all, which can not even be counted as costs, because they must be borne practically from his own pocket or from the company's pocket, without including costs. It's about PFRON, we're talking about ZUS. The employer pays for 33 days' dismissal. 33 days. Right? He pays for Christmas, he pays for Sundays. Well, you don't talk about that. These costs are not discussed, Minister, and this is a really very heavy burden. And as for the contribution, the fact that entrepreneurs pay little... Well, on the fingers of one hand you can count the heads of companies who are going to release, the heads of companies who use the ZUS, who enjoy this privilege of employees. They don't have limited working time. They're worried about all the things ahead because the employee is so surrounded by regulations that until the company goes down, it's practically everything he's ever owed. Very good anyway, very good, because this coherence between the employer and the employee must be. But it can't be that we're sitting here two months before the new tax year and we're debating this big book. It's like racing, for example. For the Nobel Prize and pierce Sienkiewicz in writing a novel on the number of pages. Well... I have a lot of things written out, but to be honest, I don't know if... Because, as my previous speakers have already said, will you lean on this? You never leaned over. You've never noticed any voices. The Senate's amendments never went through in practice unless someone was wrong. What we write to you always bouncing off like you have a patent for wisdom. Nobody has that patent. I think if we sat down together, normally we met, talked, listened to experts, went to a few companies, to a big company... Minister, I will gladly take you, at my expense, to a large company, to a small one, to those people you want to bring from abroad. What if you're trying to prove that someone's been there for three years? Or was he sitting in Poland working in black? He'll come to you and what? We'll see if he was or wasn't. If someone living abroad were to come back, he'd be back by now. What's he coming back to? You want me to read the whole book, Minister? He's gonna sit around for months and read these 700 pages, and he's gonna figure out what he's gonna do? Come on, let's not be silly. I only ask for a little understanding, Minister, a little understanding for those people who work hard, who pay taxes, who are not smart people who create this common good under the name of Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u384	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Beat Małecka-Libera will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u385	Thank you very much. Minister, we don't know each other. I don't work on the budget committee, I don't do finance, I represent the health sector. But as I listened to you today, I thought you only saw numbers, numbers, budget receipts and that this is your whole world. And the world is somewhere else. You really need to think about what you're doing with one move, deleting free competitions and deleting your tax card. That's what people are behind, that's what's behind the free competition, that's what the doctors I'm gonna fight for here today because no one's behind them. For weeks now, they've been standing on the street for months in front of the Prime Minister's office, fighting to not only make more money, but to make the system different so that there's more money in the system, and when you make changes in the budget and change the allocation of 8 billion to different purposes, only 1 billion goes to health care. And that's the priority. The health sector and workers are constantly bitten, from different sides, and this is a medical error punished with criminal penalties, for example. unequal supplements during the COVID period, although they were fighting alongside the beds of patients all the time. Now you're taking their tax card away from them. Maybe it's a little bit, maybe a little budget impact for you, but for them, for people, it's important, because it's a reduction in their salary. On the one hand, you say this: you have to talk, you have to add, you have to look for money to make decent money, not just doctors, but everyone, all the medical staff that works in health care. And on the other hand, where you can, it'll catch something, something thin, something smaller. That's not how trust is built, that's how the system is not built, and that's how you don't talk to professional groups, that's how you don't talk to society. Every fourth doctor is over sixty-five years old, some of them are retired and working because there are no people to work with. Is it finally coming to you or not? If we take away this relief from them now, this card, which is sort of a symbol, but is important to these people, they will leave their jobs because they do not have to work, and they will throw away these civil law agreements, which make them work in many places, and so that the number of benefits is greater than if they worked for a contract of employment. And that has to be understood, you have to see this system, and not just the revenue to the budget, which isn't going to be that big from this tax card. They're gonna leave the hospitals, they're gonna break off their contracts with the entities they've made extra with. All of this will result in a reduction in the number of health benefits provided. Is that what this is about? Please calculate and balance whether such changes are worthwhile. Last time a group of health experts talked to economists, who always say that the economy and the economy and the health, that it was such a branch of this economy, this economy and it was so important, then it turned out how few economists know about the health system. Don't look at these as extra revenue to the budget, look at the losses in the whole health system. What does your image look like in the eyes of this group, a medical group that you are constantly promising to increase wages and interest in? They feel really invisible because no one can see them right now. Nobody wants to go down the street to talk to these people, sit down with them, work out a dialogue. So what can you expect in return? Respect? Trust? And I think that's what dialogue is all about in society. Therefore, I think that even here in the Senate, there will be a moment of reflection and we will see that free competitions are really very important... Their representatives will feel very vulnerable if they are removed from this tax card at the moment. By the way, everyone wonders if it isn't the next step to making these free competitions cease to exist at all. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u386	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jacek Bury will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u387	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry! I've been doing business for 30 years and I'll say this: I've seen a lot, I've been through a lot. As VAT was introduced, it's because someone on the invoice for me wrote the 0% rate. Instead of the ZW and there were also positions taxed at a higher rate, I was questioned about this VAT, I was fined times 5 and it was said that if I appeal, I would get even more. At the IRS, the clerk asked me, "Mr. Bury, where'd you steal all that money?" That's what I've been through. There were other situations. It's changed, for example. VAT law when an obligation arises for international transport... Yeah, whatever. And at that point, we also had control of the IRS. I say, oh, I'll ask this man how it should be, because we don't understand it, this law is unclear. I went to that clerk who controlled me, and I asked him how to understand it. And he looked and said, Lord, leave me alone, and I'll know in three years when I come to you for inspection. Ladies and gentlemen, what I see today is this book that lies with some of my fellow senators. It is another phenomenon of this kind. Something that scares and shows a complete lack of respect for power for the working people. You want us to control it all. I'm already abstracting from what's in it. In a very short time, to change information systems, to change regulations in accounting, to pay the right taxes... It's impossible. It is necessary to suspend the company's activities at this point and tell everyone to read that we understand it or pay very large money to some tax advisors, perhaps they are. Who would be able to handle these changes and advise on how to act so as not to be punished by the tax office, not to be later called a thief. Because we want to pay taxes, but we want the rules to be transparent so that there's legal certainty, legal clarity and time to react. Ladies and gentlemen, we've tried to correct this bill here, and the Senate has put a lot of work into it. I've got a few more amendments, too. They will concern among others. local authorities and simplify the situation in which local governments suffer from a reduction... not a reduction, but an increase in the tax-free amount, and will suffer losses from PIT revenues. You can change that. Not necessarily subsidies for local governments, which the government proposes. This could be modified by such an increase in the percentage of local governments in PIT to compensate for this. And I'm going to make an amendment that kind of defends business people as individuals, so-called. the issue of leasing and redemption of cars from leasing and amendments to the minimum tax. This tax will hit companies that are in the FMCG industry, i.e. fast migratory goods, or electronics trading, because there are minimal margins. This tax will kill some companies that work in Poland for many, many years at a margin of less than 1% Or 1%. You guys are gonna finish them off right now. The same way you want to finish off startups that aren't profitable will be taxed on minimum tax. This is sick. We do not care about the development of our country and Polish entrepreneurs. I, when I listen to all this, am really convinced that the government is getting along just fine... But you know who? He's getting along with the corpus. You're getting along with a lot of people. What I heard from the Minister today confirms that. A while ago, I thought it wasn't, but today, some things seem to connect... points connect, balls collide. There was talk of agents, a friend of Kwiatkowski's asked about the tax exemption of agents, special forces agents. If so, then I, ladies and gentlemen, would have tabled such an amendment, but I do not have it prepared here, but let the Ministry work on it, so that not only agents but also confidants can be exempt from taxes, then it will be logical. The thing that bothers me very much is what the Minister said. If someone wants to invest in Poland because I asked about investments, they may have an individual investment plan... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Minister, I'd like you to talk to me a little quieter, if you don't mind.]] ...so when the big investor comes, he can talk to the government. If the big guy comes, he's gonna talk, and then he's gonna have an interpretation, he's gonna have custody, he's gonna have special treatment. I don't know if you know how to invest in Belarus. We need to go to Belarus, talk to Lukashenka, his government, and make an individual agreement with the Belarusian Government. You get special conditions and these special conditions work. I see that in Poland it is the same, practically the same. Depending on the government's approval, you can get such or other interpretations and such or other regulations. Welcome to Belarus. Ladies and gentlemen, this law has already been said. It is being prosecuted in an extraordinary way: in a short time, without consultation, it violates EU law, it violates the constitution, it violates a lot of rules. I will say this: this bill is written on the knee, this bill is pushed by Parliament with its knee, but I hope that Polish workers and Polish entrepreneurs will break your limps for this bill. Thanks. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u388	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u389	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! It's been 14 hours, everyone's tired, but I have to claim the government. I wasn't supposed to speak anymore, but I'd like a chance to stand up for the local government. But after listening to the Minister's speech, I'm going to start by saying that I think we're actually living in two different realities or one of us is living in Matrix. Because I spoke with the organization of the Employer of the Republic of Poland Mr Malinowski, I spoke with Leviathan and these organizations are devastated by this law. At the committee meeting that was with us It's already been said here. The representatives of companies or people who really knew about taxes were terrified. By 1 January there was very little time left, and they were not even able to respond to this law. So to say that everyone is actually delighted with these proposals is probably unjustified, Minister, we are missing out here somewhere. And if necessary, maybe we can confront the Ministry with employers' organizations. Employers' organisations clearly state: small and medium-sized companies will lose heavily on this deal. But I'd like to focus on self-government because I'm from self-government. To be honest, I would very much like to be wrong, I would very much like to be wrong, but I have this feeling that this bill is a deliberate hit on the local government. You didn't talk about it, but you have to remember. that tax reduction is important for all of us, everyone wants to pay lower taxes. It's clear and understandable. But one must also bear in mind the local government, which today is the biggest success of Poland after 1989. I see your associates are relatively young. But I would like to remind you, well, maybe your parents will remind you that in the mid-1980s, when self-government was formed, when the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union was in operation. At that time everyone dreamed of self-government and this self-government was the goal of future, this new, modern Poland. After 1989, when this self-government was founded, everyone wanted this self-government to actually shape the reality of our country. But this bill goes straight to the command and resolution system. It's already been done, it's past the communes. I don't know how much you're aware that you're hitting the local government. But you hit the local government not only because you're taking money from local governments, but also because you're restricting the role of local government. According to the calculations of the Association of Polish Cities and other local authorities next year only due to the lower revenue from the tax to local government will affect about 12 billion PLN less. Of course, here we talked to Senator Mr. Frost and one of the ministers that there would be a subsidy of PLN 8 billion. Okay. If this subsidy is... I'd like to see that subsidy. But 8 and 12 is the difference of 4 billion. Remember that these current tax receipts are essentially spent on current expenditure, not on investment, in most local governments. You can borrow for investments, you can move some investment, but you can't not pay the teachers, you can't fix the road that's in a catastrophic state. And self-governments can't stand it. The government will run out of money for current expenses. Is it a lot, or is it not enough 4 billion? We'll see next year. This is the senator. Frost made me realize that in the years to come, there will eventually be an equalisation that if local governments actually have a tax deficit, there will be fewer taxes, then the ministry will even up and the money will go there. But local governments don't want any favor and they don't want you to level anything out and give subsidies. You just had to increase your share of the tax. Why didn't you? This is the idea of self-government, as well as solidarity. Self-government is that we rule ourselves. That word speaks for itself: self-government. Why do you want to make the state give subsidies, subsidise local governments and divide at your discretion? We return to a time when the secretary of the party or the district committee or the voivodeship committee will divide the money and tell us what the money is meant for. Ladies and gentlemen, over the last 2?3 days of press conferences, all over Poland euphoria: the government has distributed 23 billion. Except where this money comes from, because, as you know, it's money from the Bank of National Farms, from issuing bonds... This money is being distributed, and it's like giving someone a birthday present and saying, you have a present, but you have to pay for it yourself. Of course, some local governments got more, others got less, everyone was happy, because almost everyone got, probably about 86 local governments got nothing. Everybody's happy. Ladies and gentlemen, just... In addition, there is a programme for Eastern Poland in Podlaski, and this must be remembered. So once again, one thousand and 25 zlotys per capita. Silesia PLN 471. How do I explain this? What's this? [[Voice from the room: German option.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on. From my territory... [[Voice from the room: Hidden.]] Mr. Senator, my town, the presidential city, New Salt, 62 PLN per capita. 62 zł. [[Voice from the room: It's because of you.]] 62 zł. Next to the village, Kolsko, you can check it out, it is a rural commune, a small rural commune - PLN 3 000 600 per capita. Can you explain how this money was shared? According to what algorithm? 'Cause I can tell by what. [[There's no senator in Kolsk.]] It's not even about that anymore. [[Voice from the room: From the opposition.]] Well, I wish I was wrong, Mr. Senator, I would very much like to be wrong. In my opinion, this is a deliberate and planned action to break up the local government, to break up the local government. Today, as I said, some self-governments are more excited, others are less excited, but this solidarity of self-government is broken. There are conferences, checks are handed out, everyone's happy, almost everyone's got it. But this is a pre-emptive resolution system. We're back to the way things were. It was for the communes. In conclusion, I would like to say that I would very much like to be wrong, that this is an element of the breakdown and destruction of the local government, because the local government is power in the field, and no authority, especially no dictator likes to share power. So I hope that the State or the Ministry... Although there is little hope here to start thinking differently and return to the roots of the self-government, not to give gifts at the discretion that the party dignitary did not share according to the principle: that's what I like, that's what I don't like, that's what she gave, because she asked, that's what she gave, because the water was wearing, and so on. If local governments were to receive money as a contribution to the tax, they would have even more mobilisation to build zones... [[Voice from the room: But why would there be power then?]] Exactly. What's the power for? I'm done. I'll say it again. I hope I am wrong that this is not a deliberate, planned action aimed at breaking up and destroying the local government. Because that's how I read this Polish New Deal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u390	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Krzysztof Frost will be the last to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u391	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen... Come on, you senators! I'll say it like that. I'm actually wondering what to say. Because there's so much untruth in this room, so many half-truths, so many lies, so many bad emotions that have been expressed even by your marshal. I'm sorry to say this. Mr. Senator Kwiatkowski, I'm sorry to say, tried to match him. And you're also traditionally Senator Blackbay. To be honest, I was a little surprised to hear you talk so emotionally about taxes. You can't correct everything you've said in ten minutes, I'll be honest with you. The Minister will have an unlimited amount of time, so I think, at least to the biggest and most vulgar and obvious lies he will bear. So I decided, Ladies and gentlemen, not to straighten it out because there is no time, but I decided to tell Poles who might be watching us or who will play this transmission, which is carried by Polish Load. And the Polish Government, Ladies and gentlemen, is over PLN 17 billion less in the state budget. 17 billion PLN less in the state budget. This means that these 17 billion zlotys will remain in the pockets of Polish taxpayers. It will stay in the pockets of Poles, Polish families. And that's a fact. 17 billion PLN will not affect the state budget, will be in households. 90% Polish taxpayers will not lose on the Polish Deal. That's 24 million taxpayers. Out of this 24 million, 19 million will gain. They will be the beneficiaries with whom 17,4 billion zlotys will be left. They will be pensioners, they will be workers, they will also be some entrepreneurs. And now... Are we able to convince someone from the opposition after this seance of speeches by various senators? Of course not, and I won't even try it. But, ladies and gentlemen, let's wait until January, February, March, April. Then you, Dear Retirement and Retirement, will know A 2/3 of pensioners will gain that your pensions for January, paid in February, March... They are paid differently and they will simply be higher. And you'll be able to find out from your mailmen's belts, from your accounts whether the opposition was telling the truth, that pensioners and pensioners will lose on these changes. And it's gonna be the best test for people, because either they're gonna have bigger pensions or they're gonna have smaller pensions. And I say today that 2/3 of Polish pensioners will get more after the introduction of the Polish Order. 90% He won't. Many millions of households, large families, those who earn little, will simply gain. I wonder why there is such an attack on this Polish Load, especially from the Civic Platform. Well, I'll tell you. Because what does this Polish government really change? He changes one thing. It introduces a certain social justice. And with this attack, ladies and gentlemen, you seem to be proving that you are a manifestation of extreme liberalism, extreme injustice in the tax system. Because today people who earn money have to pay tax, and since 1 January people who have income below 30,000 zlotys, this tax will not have to pay at all. And such a solution, a similar tax-free amount is in France, Germany. Not in Romania, the Czech Republic or Hungary, but in these highly developed countries. And if President Jarosław Kaczyński said some people would lose... yes, those who make a lot of money will lose. Everywhere those who earn a lot pay high taxes, and the real burden of the richest taxes in Poland after the introduction of the Polish Deal will be lower. It's not a secret, you can reach the Internet and see how much the rich, German or French pay, I'm not talking about the Swedish anymore. In Poland, ladies and gentlemen, taxes for the richest will be lower. And it is, so to speak, the injustice of what Senator Grzegorz Bierecki said, that the entrepreneur, employing 20, 30, 50 people, pays a health premium lower than his employees. We want to change that. Finally, we want to introduce a certain element of social justice in the tax system. I'm not surprised that you're attacking because we remember your unrealized, impossible idea, we remember here about the Civic Platform 3x15. What did 3x15 mean? That meant the richest would gain. That meant the price of food would go up. Today it is taxed at 7% And you'd be taxing it at 15%. . That means the price of drugs would go up. [[And now the food is cheap?]] This meant a proposal from the Civic Platform a few years ago. 3x15. Today we introduce social justice to the Polish Ład. [[Mother of God!]] And I am aware that if you represent such an extreme model of economic liberalism, an extreme model of liberalism, and if we change this Polish Load, it is such an attack on Polish Loads. But this Polish Load will enter on January 1, people will have higher pensions, higher wages and I think they will appreciate it in practice. There's another element I'd like to address. To be honest, Senator Wadim, when you talk to him in the clowns, he takes some arguments. Even if he has doubts, I say certain things to him, even partly in this debate he must have acknowledged it. We don't want to change, and we don't want to blow up local governments. The kind of support that local government units are getting for years hasn't been there. And that's what Senator Krzysztof Mróz says, but that's what the mayors, the mayors I'm meeting, who I'm driving with, also the Civic Platform, also your locals say. Maybe you should listen to the voice of your self-government. They'll tell you that. Glass Poręba, where the mayor, a member of the Civic Platform, hasn't had the kind of money she's been getting for years. [[The voice from the gym: Lucky guy.]] He's lucky, maybe he's not lucky. We support local governments. And the ones that are written... In fact, in local governments, Law and Justice are not the strongest, especially in local communities. So if we were just supporting these local governments, that's 90%. Local government wouldn't get it. However, 97% or 98% He got backup, by the way... from this Polish deal. And already in December or November, there will be another recruitment and they will be supported. Mr. Senator, I've been explaining to you that even current expenses aren't going to amount to anything... At the last meeting, we changed the budget. You, too, must have voted in favour of these budgetary changes. There was a total of PLN 8 billion for current expenditure for next year, compensation, plus 4 billion added to water and sewage investments. [[Mr. Senator, 10 minutes.]] Let me just say this: Dear Poles, Polish Load will be beneficial for you. Don't listen to the crap the opposition said today in the Senate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u392	Senator Blackbay will speak. Five minutes. [[Mr. Marshal, just one more thing. I'd like to make an amendment.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u393	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to add a few words to this discussion as a self-government officer with a 20-year internship, a few facts. I'll finish it in a minute. But I need to say a few words to the senator for such a nice speech. Mr. Senator, we... You know what? As a person who has graduated from technical studies, I always say that the hardest thing is... Mr. Senator will probably correct me if I say something wrong, because he is a man who knows very well about adding fractions, that in order to talk about what needs to be added, everything needs to be brought into the common denominator. How to play bridge That I'm playing in. You have to speak the common language. And I suggest we talk, Mr. Senator, so to speak, in something we communicate in... Well, I want to say yes. I'm saying This is the case in the paper, and it was in the senator's speech. That's 90% of what Retired people will benefit. That's an undeniable fact. And it's good that the tax-free amount is going to go up to 30 grand, that the tax thresholds are going to go up. These are the things we sign up for, we're voting for them. Do you understand that, or do you want to say it again? We're talking about something else, Mr. Senator. I know it's true in the eyes of the circle. I was quoting things that professors, experts, and legislators wrote. It's not my idea. It's the people I've quoted. I know that the truth in the eyes of the circle, but it must be made clear that the elements that were quoted by the present, it is so true... You must understand that what is good is good. And what's wrong... Let's sit down and talk, say what's wrong, and ask why. Let's do a simulation. Let's do an analysis. And the Lord here in a fiery speech cries out: Poles, we will give you! This is your policy, Senator. You want to take as much as you can and then generously say, "We gave it to you." We, us, us, power. The analysis shows that 90% But when it comes to marriages raising children, it's only 30%... it's a good thing that pensioners who haven't received support for many years now will receive them. That's what we support, but other things... I'm not gonna repeat myself here again. What concerns extreme liberalism and other things is that I will leave out. There is an element of the progressiveness that the Minister spoke about at the committee meeting. This proposal brings in the elements of the progressiveness that you have spoken of here, this social justice. And I'm signing under it, too. But we're talking about something completely different, Mr. Senator. Well, didn't you listen to the debate? What are we criticizing? What are we paying attention to? We want to talk about it, do analysis, etc., etc. I'm not gonna talk about this anymore. I will only say two more words about local governments that Wadi Tyszkiewicz mentioned here. Mr. Senator, you can declare that local governments are a pillar and that you won't liquidate them, but it's gonna work out that it's gonna end itself. Why alone? I'll read some data. This is Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz presenting... I'll show you what it's like in Pomerania. Gdansk, well, you can say a big city, got 80 million support Which he is very happy about, and thank you for that, and please pass this on to those who have made such a decision. But less so, so to speak, he received in tax because 390. Yeah, but he got 80, you're right. Well, you could say the tractor's working because it's got three wheels that are good. You're too young to remember Tey's cabaret joke: why say the tractor is disabled because it only has one wheel? Well, it's the same here. As far as my county is concerned, the county capital, the city of Kwidzyn, has for 3 years reduced revenue by PLN 6 million, mainly for current expenses. Now they've got $4 million, $700,000. Well, he's happy too, because he couldn't get anything, we couldn't get anything, and he got $4 million 700 grand. And here's the difference: where... Well, somehow, this algorithm is so arranged: where the Civic Platform wins, such as. definitely in the city of Kwidzyn It is 414 PLN per capita, and where the results are very good for the Law and Justice and President Duda, it is strange to see 1 thousand 132 PLN. Well, that's what happened in that algorithm. And here it is, Mr. Senator, this case you were talking about: less subsidies, more tax shares and as little money as possible after recognition. This is the protection of Polish local governments, not your fiery declarations: we will not eliminate them. [[Sir...]] Last sentence, Mr. Marshal. I know. I'm almost done. Now those 23 billion zlotys are being distributed, and Senator Wadim mentioned it. It's being distributed out of future debt, giving away money out of future debt. The studies I also have show that this year we have 40 billion deficits and 103 billion PLN outside the budget, among others. 23 billion zlotys. So you're giving away money for future generations, and you're saying, "Enjoy it, because you couldn't get anything, and now you've got it." And yet you share it at your discretion: yours. No more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no It's less than that. And you're reducing the local government's own income. Here's the problem, Senator. Let's talk about it, about numbers, let's sit down, let's show, let's see, and then we'll talk. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u394	Thank you very much. For the record, Senators Alicja Chybicka, Aleksander Szwed, Janusz Pęcherz, Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka, Ewa Matecka, Ryszard Świlski, Beata Małecka-Libera, Joanna Sekuła made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I also inform you that the proposals of a legislative nature were submitted in writing by the group senators Marek Borowski plus Adam Szejnfeld plus Kazimierz Kleina, and Marek Martynowski, Kazimierz Kleina, Ryszard Bober, Jacek Bury, Jacek Bury and Krzysztof Mróz. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill under consideration will be held tomorrow, after preparation, so to speak, of legislative proposals. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u395	Absolutely. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Well, as Senator Frost rightly pointed out, there are a lot of things here that are completely contrary to reality, and it is my duty to make some explanations. A lot of questions have been asked here about how a small Polish entrepreneur running a small business is to prepare for changes to the Polish Deal, how he is going to deal with all these changes, how he is going to handle all these changes. He's supposed to prepare for it, and how it's all gonna affect him. Well, ladies and gentlemen, a small Polish entrepreneur is the main beneficiary of the tax changes of the Polish Order. Any Polish entrepreneur who has income up to almost PLN 6 000 500 per month, up to PLN 6 000 480, will benefit from tax changes of the Polish Łódź Łódź. It is as many as 530 thousand companies that will benefit immediately, and it is not with any optional solutions, not with tax relief, but immediately, immediately, thanks to changes in the amount of tax free and health contribution. When it comes to solutions for small companies, for start-ups, about how to encourage young people to start doing business, what to do so as not to scare them away... You believe that this package, which you have empathized here, this 700-page material, contains, as I understand it, the conclusions of the consultation, the justification, and so in total dozens of pages of unique regulations and very, very, very many other non-binding materials. Ladies and gentlemen, we can ask ourselves a very simple question: what should be the tax system? If I were to ask you whether this is a system that specifically refers to the unique situation of any taxable person who supports innovation that supports investments that also supports less earners, you would say that this is a fair and modern system. As I will ask you, should the system be vice versa You will answer exactly the same question: yes, it is a fair, necessary tax system. Modern European tax systems are characterised by the fact that they present an alternative: any entrepreneur can choose whether he wants to settle himself as precisely as possible, one which will allow him to support the tax tools of those decisions which are needed from his point of view and worth supporting, or whether he wants to have a simple tax settlement. Polish Load is a package of tax changes, which from January next year will make for the first time in 30 years of the operation in Poland of personal income tax and corporate income tax at every stage of the company's activity there will be an alternative: next to the general rules there will be a simple method of settlement which the entrepreneur, deciding himself, will be able to choose. We created the starting point already in January this year, generally opening lump sums from registered revenues. Just as a few years ago, the income limit for the use of the lump sum was EUR 125 000, so now it has been raised to as much as 2 million. We have abolished more than 50 exemptions from this tax settlement method, only 3. What was the effect? As early as January this year, between the second and third COVID waves, the flat-rate income from registered revenues, the easiest way to settle the tax, almost 60,000 entrepreneurs entered, all those who had long waited to benefit from a simplified tax settlement, but no authorities gave them the opportunity to do so, we only did so with tax changes. This is a lump sum from registered revenues, the easiest way known to humanity to settle the tax, because these are receipts to the cashier times the rate, without depreciation, without counting the costs, without any risks in contact with the administration. On the other hand, if the company is developing, if debt financing appears, if the company's business scale increases, even if partners appear, then for it, also for the first time in history, since January of the coming year 2022, we will open a commonly available Estonian CIT, Estonian CIT not as a pro-investment relief, such as the need to declare on the part of the companies planned investments, but Estonian CIT as a widely available simplified tax settlement method. The tax will be paid not on a monthly, quarterly or annual basis, but only if the trader himself concludes that he can afford to pay the tax and decides to pay his own profits in the form of dividends. As long as the funds are left in the company... The catalogue of entities will also be significantly enlarged, because now they are only limited liability and share companies, and we will open it for a limited limited-liability, limited-liability, simple public limited-liability company. So that it will be all entrepreneurs operating in the company formula, that is, it will be, as I said, where partners appear, where there is a risk. For simple activities, those that serve the maintenance of the entrepreneur and his family, we have flat rates from registered revenues, for developing companies when we are looking for debt capital, when we are also looking for partners who will enter our company with capital, we have Estonian CIT from 1 January. And this is our offer: simple, simple tax settlement, available at every stage of the entrepreneur's operation. So that it is not a complication of the tax system, on the contrary, it is the creation of a precise system for those entrepreneurs who can afford to benefit from the relief to ensure their service, and a maximum simplified method of settlement for those entrepreneurs who simply want to settle themselves, have minimum obligations relating to tax settlement and minimum risks in contact with the tax administration. Come on. Scary, because you can't call it anything else, hairdressers are extremely unethical. This is exactly what I heard here today: the minimum tax will be paid by the entrepreneur regardless of the size of his business. I'd like it hot... Oh, second thing: minimum tax will pay start-ups. Two things. First: start-ups, all companies that start operating on the Polish market, whether from abroad or from Poland, will not pay a minimum tax for the first 3 years of operation in our country. So that the minimum tax on start-ups does not apply. And the second thing: all companies with a simple ownership structure, which do not have mother companies, daughter companies, i.e. those in which, well, the equity portfolio contains only natural persons, i.e.. just the simplest business activities operating in the form of capital, the minimum tax will not pay because they are excluded from it. So that the hairdresser as a single-person economic activity of the minimum tax will not pay, because she is not a company, and companies with a simple ownership structure, i.e. more than 90% companies operating in Poland, including CIT companies, will be excluded from the minimum tax not by applying a tax exemption of the nature of the revenue, but by excluding the formula of the business. This way the Ministry of Finance has chosen for a very clear reason, namely the choice of a de minimis clause would entail a conflict with the European Commission. We want to act in accordance with EU law and put in place clauses which will not raise any doubts, and will not later be denied by the institutions in Brussels. Oh, that's right, Senator Marek Borowski. Well, I'd like 100%. Agree with your senator's diagnosis. Two key problems of the Polish economy. The first is the lack of an employee, the record low unemployment. Entrepreneurs report this to us all the time at the meetings of the Business Dialog series. We have such meetings with entrepreneurs, with large groups, several dozen entities, practically every week. The second element is the low level of investment in Poland. I'm gonna start by talking about the lack of employees. Polish Load is a package of solutions that uses the best solutions from all over Europe in order to solve this problem as much as possible through tax tools. Already in 2019 a zero PIT for young people was introduced, i.e. a solution which in many countries of the European Union proved to be a tool for the professional activation of people up to the age of twenty-six. Now PIT zero for active seniors and PIT zero for returning, encouraging people who have gained experience abroad, to return to Poland after 3 years of absence. Here I heard the thesis that PIT zero for the senior was a fictional and unfavorable solution. I would like to stress that there are already 114 000 people who, despite their pension rights, do not take it but remain active. These are the people who will immediately benefit from the solution proposed by us from January next year. Why don't they benefit from retirement? Because they know that this would entail the need to renegotiate the agreement they have concluded with their current employer, and it can often be unfavorable, unpleasant, troublesome for them. We want to reward these people, support them also in this decision as long as their health allows them to do so, as long as their living situation allows them to remain on the labour market, to support the development of the Polish economy, but also to teach them by example and by their long years of experience their young colleagues, people with whom they work together. PIT zero for returning solutions tested in Portugal, Spain, Italy, countries from which there had previously been large labour emigration to the richer countries of the European Union. We are implementing this now and we also expect very good results. Another thing: lower labour costs, which activate professionally. After all, the high tax-free amount, i.e. lower taxation of the minimum wage, practically PIT zero, 1 thousand 700 PLN per hand really extra money in the pocket of the earner earning the minimum wage per year, is a way to overcome the threshold for entry into the labour market for those who still hesitate to remain inactive or decide to return to the labour market. Reducing labour costs for the benefit of the least-earned is one of the OECD's proven pan-European and recommended tools for activating inactive people and addressing the problem of low unemployment and access to labour in the labour market. That's the problem with the lack of an employee. Second problem: low level of investment. Why aren't Polish companies investing? Last year they did not invest for a simple reason because it was COVID because it was not known whether the company would stay on the market. Making any plans for the company's development in such a large risk situation was extremely difficult. But why didn't they invest before? Well, according to you, they didn't invest because of the rule of law dispute, did they? Because of the inoperative, in your opinion, some of the challenges of the justice system. But this is your thesis. What's the truth? What's he gonna say here? OECD? According to the 2018 survey, companies in Poland do not invest, the small and medium-sized enterprises sector does not invest because there is no money for investments. Polish businessman knows very well what investment needs he has, how he can increase the scale of his business and increase the efficiency of his activity, but there is simply no money for it. According to OECD research, every third company in Poland in 2018 did not make the necessary investment due to the refusal to obtain debt financing. We can address it in part or solve it with tax tools, hence the solution of the Polish Load package, which will make access to capital easier, and also make investment expense itself cheaper for companies. How do we connect a company looking for capital with an investor? That's right, a relief to the IPO, to enter the stock market, so that this investor search threshold is just lower. On the other hand, it will be a relief for investors to use venture capital funds, which specialize in combining investors with promising start-ups. What do we do to make investments made by companies cheaper? Well, the state itself has repeatedly emphasized here: relief for robotics, even better, even more attractive R &amp; D relief, relief for employment of an employee serving an innovative process in the company, relief for a prototype. All these solutions have been proposed by the market, proposed by the Enterprise Council, will be implemented and implemented from 1 January next year. We also want Polish companies to develop, hence the relief for expansion, also expansion to the new market, for the implementation of a new product on the Polish market, but also for foreign expansion, for researching markets outside the country and for finding on the other side the border of Polish customers of Polish goods and Polish services. In addition, the consolidation relief, which will allow companies to connect cheaper to companies that do something similar, possibly located higher or lower in the supply chain. These are all solutions tested in Europe's large production centres, in countries that compete with production quality and added value generated in the economy, and these are also modern solutions that we will implement in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, the United Kingdom, France and Germany are not my holiday plans, but these are countries where the same solutions have been in place for many years with very good results, promoting investment. Low level of investment? The recipe is careful observation of the situation in Poland, in this eyes of international organizations, which also know what is wrong with us and propose solutions expected by the market, tested abroad, such as those which directly address these challenges. Thesis: they lose their pensioners. First of all, it's a complete fake news. I do not know how Senator Borowski has this information, that in changes to the Polish Order, pensioners who have low pensions will lose to 900 PLN. That's completely untrue. I don't know where that came from. I would like to ask all of you here at any stage, if anyone asks you this, to strongly deny it because it is not true. What does it look like in a retirement situation? It will gain 8 million 144,000 pensioners, and 5.5 million will not pay income tax at all. About 4,8% The pensioners will be paid about a dozen zlotys a month, and more than 200 zlotys a month will be paid by the pensioner, who, as part of the monthly benefits, has over 13 thousand 600 zlotys of such pensioners, however, is in Poland 3 promile. I personally don't know any of them. Dear Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, changes regarding non-cash solutions, cashless. Is the bill that we are presenting in conflict with the proposal submitted by your President? Doesn't he agree with him? On the contrary. Ladies and gentlemen, our goal is that every consumer in Poland can freely choose whether to pay by cash or pay by telephone or by credit card or by transfer. How many entrepreneurs are in Poland? Over 2.5 million. How many consumers are in Poland? Over 33 million. And these are the people who should be given the opportunity to pay in a non-cash way, especially when another wave of pandemics is approaching. Well, people may not want to pay in cash. This departure from cash payments and the switch to other payments, online, electronic, was already visible during the first, second and third wave. Now he's gonna show up again. It is also our duty to give such options to consumers who are in Poland 33 million. Duty to accept payment... Oh, I'm sorry. The ban on cash payments is talking about a certain limit already functioning in business transactions. In Poland it is at the level of 15 thousand PLN. We want to reduce this level by less than half, to 8,000. We want to introduce in business transactions a customer, between the trader and the customer, such a limit that such cash payments will not be made in an amount higher than PLN 20,000 per purchase. A conflict with the constitution? A disproportionate tool? Well, that's the thesis we heard from the Senate Legislative Office. I would like to ask all the senators that this very favourable, even necessary law should not be classified as contrary to the Constitution. It must be supported with all its strength. Is the implementation of such limits contrary to the Constitution? This is recommended by the OECD, by the World Bank, by the International Monetary Fund. Such changes have been introduced by 14 European Union countries in the field of business transactions, 7 of which have lower limits than those proposed by Poland. In terms of transactions between individual clients and business, such solutions operate in 9 countries of the European Union, with 6 of them being lower than in Poland. Undisputed leaders, who are praised in OECD reports, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, are countries such as Italy, France and Spain, which set these limits at EUR 1 000. Well, 1 thousand euros is in France. Our proposal is PLN 20,000 in the case of consumer cash payments to the trader, in the case of payments between traders • PLN 8 000. In France, Spain and Italy Next year it will also be in Romania This is about 1 thousand euros. This is a global trend aimed at reducing the tax gap, fighting organised crime, fighting money laundering. These are the best European practices that we want to implement also in Poland. Hence such a hot recommendation on my part to support these changes and not classify them against the opinion of the most important international organisations as non-constitutional changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u396	Thank you very much, Minister. Let me use the Marshal's law to make a comment, because I feel like we live in different worlds. The European Union not only recommends, but even demands the liquidation of the Disciplinary Chamber, and somehow it does not convince you. But you spoke very beautifully about the fact that the tax system is designed to create alternatives, to give the right to choose. I think this is one of the attributes of freedom. Meanwhile, doctors are denied the right to use the title of a free profession. The last people who did that were Communists. In your law, the doctor's out of the league. And at the same time, you're deleting the possibility of billing with a tax card. So how does that fit your declaration? Have you read these 700 pages? Well, you didn't have to, you have a lot of work to do, but your officials should. That goes against what you're saying. I could talk about this for a long time, but I'm gonna keep my mouth shut. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you again that the vote on the bill will be held tomorrow. We are adjourned and adjourned... In a minute, after the announcements.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u397	High Senate! The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the examination of applications submitted at the 30th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Law on the Functioning of Coal Mining and some other laws will take place tomorrow, 28 October 2021, at 8.30 a.m. in room 217. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-27-senat-32-1.u398	I'm calling for a recess by 10:00 tomorrow. [[Adjournment at 00 minutes 50]]
