ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u1	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - to Energy, Climate and State Assets together with the Committee on Infrastructure at 3 p.m. 9, - Social Policy and Family Policy - at 3 p.m. 9, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - at 3 p.m. 9, - to Energy, Climate and State Assets at 3 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - Public Finance - at 3 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - Justice and Human Rights at 3 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - to the European Union at 3 p.m. 10, - Education, Science and Youth - at 3 p.m. 11, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - at 3 p.m. 11, - Culture and Media - at 3 p.m. 11, - Agriculture and Rural Development - at 3 p.m. 11. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Sanitarism - at 3 p.m. 10, - Parliamentary Group for: Energy - at 3 p.m. 11, - Parliamentary Team for the Development of Electromobility and Prosumer Energy - at 3 p.m. 13.30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u2	Thank you very much. We move on to questions on current issues included on the agenda of the 40th meeting of the Polish Sejm. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time of the answer to an additional question. Members of Grzegorz Matusiak, Marek Wesoły, Krzysztof Janusz Kozik, Robert Warwas, Grzegorz Gaża, Andrzej Gawron and Grzegorz Lorek, members of Law and Justice, will ask a question about the reasons for the lack of coal in the retail market addressed to the Minister of State Assets. The first question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Matusiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u3	Thank you very much. I have a question for the Minister about the situation that exists in the retail coal market. I live in Silesia, and this problem also applies to Silesian towns, where most furnaces use coal as fuel material. People calling the Members' Offices say that there is no coal on fuel assemblies and that it is very difficult to get coal at the moment. I know that, let's say, the confusion that the European Union has introduced concerning the so-called. Green energy today results in the fact that actually the only fuel that is used, which is stable, is coal, which is currently missing in the market.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u4	Minister! I wanted to ask the question: What measures does the government intend to take on this matter?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u5	I understand that we now expect an answer from the Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets, Mr Maciej Małecki. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The current demand for coal on the municipal and domestic market in Poland is around 9 million t per year. This depends on the weather conditions prevailing in Poland, because these conditions are directly translated into the length of the heating season and the amount of heat demand for heating buildings. Sales of coal from Polish mines to the municipal and residential sector are about 7 million tons per year. This is due to the fact that only around 12 the coal produced meets the quality requirements so that it can be sold to the municipal and residential sector. That's why it can't be easy, e.g. converting coal from another sector to heating, increase the amount of fuel for households. Last winter was much cooler, it lasted longer. This affected customers' decision to stock up for the current heating season 2021/2022. Another reason why households buy coal in larger quantities is the trend that emerges, that more is needed and that maybe coal will not always be available in the future. As shown in previous years, this shopping curve falls in the months directly before the winter. The climate policy introduced in Europe, i.e. decarbonisation policy, where there is no investment in mining capacity, is also having an impact on the reduction of coal production in Poland. Tonight, I'm going to say this graphically: to increase production capacity by 800,000. t, you have to spend 200 million PLN and the investment lasts 1.5 years. In the event of a coal price peak, no management of the company has a guarantee that this investment will return. In addition, there is the European Union's restrictive climate policy mentioned by me, where banks do not want to finance coal investments. Such a peak of world prices was recently in 2008, after six months the price fell to listed minima. So we're talking about a market situation that happens every dozen years. I mentioned that banks and other financial institutions do not want to finance such investments, because this is due to their anti-carbon policies. Mr Timmermans' policy plan 55 by 2030 and further reduction of CO2 emissions, regardless of cost, is an additional tightening. Treasury companies have a predictable price policy in terms of fuel coal. This is due to the fact that, as I mentioned, these prices are subject to dynamic changes and can change in a short time. We are aware that coal is fuel used by people who are worse placed, or where there is no gas network yet. There are about 10,000 in Poland. warehouses. Treasury companies in the vast majority of fuel warehouses do not affect prices, because e.g. The Polish Górnicza Group has only 240 warehouses. Today's estimates show that recovery should take place in December, because now we have a strong peak, this peak of carbon interest. The stocks have been practically liquidated and everything is sold on an ongoing basis. E.g. in the Polish Mining Group there are restrictions in the form of sales up to 3 t for cash on scales. In the online shop you can buy a maximum of 5 t. These restrictions do not apply to authorised sellers with whom the company has long-term contracts, so you can hear voices that large trucks are leaving the mine to 24 t, which are fully loaded. In previous years, in early November, demand for coal fell when it comes to households. Last year the maximum sales were in October. Of course, this work in the mines is carried out in full steam. Sales, as I said, are adapted to the market so that it is not a reason for speculation that someone outside authorised suppliers will buy out most of the coal at the peak of demand. These are the actions that are being carried out, and the situation is, of course, monitored on an ongoing basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u7	Thank you very much. The additional question will be asked by Members Grzegorz Lorek and Andrzej Gawron. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you for the explanations you have just presented, but indeed this price increase in the coal market is really shocking for households. Last year it was about 800 PLN per tonne of coal peas, which is most often bought, or, let's say, at similar prices was eco peas. This month these prices reached the level of 1300 PLN, 1400 PLN, and even 1500 PLN. I guess the mines did count a little bit after all. The Minister says that demand is increasing, but it seems to be comparable every year. All the more so since some of these furnaces, which have been in operation so far, have been decommissioned, for example, under the Clean Air programme. Minister! [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is there any way for the government to act in this direction to reduce this price so that the amount of coal on the stacks is greater? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u9	Thank you very much. I ask once again for the response of the Secretary of State in the Ministry of State Assets of Minister Maciej Małecki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u10	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Observing the average sales prices of coal in the State Treasury companies, you can see a very strong seasonal trend. The lowest prices appear in February-May, while the highest in September-November. I stress that the average fluctuations in fuel coal prices sold in companies of the State Treasury in the last year reached a maximum of PLN 100. Also the information we receive in the Ministry of State Assets shows that where we talk about increases from 900 PLN to 1300 PLN, these are the activities of retailers not related to companies of the State Treasury. Some vendors want to use this run on the market. I will give examples of the prices of the products of the Treasury companies, i.e. the gross price with excise duty. The Polish Górnicza Group, current prices: ecogroszek - PLN 702'861 per tonne, depends on the caloricity, on the quality of this coal, walnut - PLN 621'727 per tonne, cube - PLN 684 '809 per tonne, peas - PLN 600' 658 per tonne. Tauron Extraction, price list of 19 October: ecogroszek - PLN 759,945 per tonne, walnut - PLN 713,720 per tonne, cube - PLN 684,769 per tonne, peas - PLN 603,713 per tonne. It must also be said very strongly that in such situations, when there is speculation on the gas market, we see the first, perhaps not the first, but the first, very visible, effects sometimes separated from the life of the European Union's climate policy - this is what results for individual consumers, but also for industry. This information, this message we are constantly sharing in the international arena, we are giving it to our partners in the European Union, so that the energy transformation of the European Union, the transformation of Mr Timmermans and other supporters of this radical trend, is not carried out in isolation from reality, in isolation from the competitiveness of the economy, in isolation from caring for family portfolios. I assure you that the Ministry of State Assets, which supervises mining companies, makes every effort in this regard. However, it must be remembered that we do not operate in vacuum, that we operate in a climate-critical environment of the European Union, and that each (The Bell) tightening of climate policy, without taking into account the circumstances and nature of the economies of each country, will affect the portfolio of consumers and the competitiveness of the economy. Thank you very much, Minister. State Secretary at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki: This is also an example of the European Commission's policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u11	We'll proceed with the next question. Waldy Dzikowski and Jakub Rutnicki, together with a group of many Members, are asking about the threat of poverty and energy exclusion. Please, Mr Waldy Dzikowski is the first.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u12	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! That's the question I'm asking and we're asking 100,000 on behalf of you. more than 0.5 million Poles, on behalf of four voivodships: Dolnośląskie, Wielkopolska, Pomerania and Zachodniopomorskie, on behalf of more than 80,000. municipalities and also on behalf of the inhabitants of my municipality Tarnowo Podgórne. I will not quote here technical details or legal complexity, because this is described in our question. I'll talk about people. It cannot be that people living a kilometer apart have different prices and have received bills, pre-financing plans for gross gas charges, drastically high, higher not by 10%, 20%, 50% , but 100%. It cannot be that there are customers who are miles away from each other and who have two different suppliers and some have a price of 11 gr per kWh and others 22 gr. Here is the role of the Polish state, so that 0.5 million Poles feel that they live in the same country. Here is the role of the state to protect them and to protect their security, in this case energy security. And it doesn't matter who owns the gas network, it doesn't matter if this pipe is green, orange or red. The most important thing is that people are treated exactly the same way in the Polish country. This is the role of the Polish state. Every Pole and every Polish must feel that they live in our country. Every one of our countrymen is the most important. And here's the role of the state. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's why, Minister, I'm asking you to speak and I'm asking you, because people are waiting for you to answer our questions. Because politics is practiced on behalf of people. Just like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u13	Mr Maciej Małecki is the Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this speech, I hope, dictated by concern, but quite challenging towards the government, the Member has just massacreed a 30-year policy pursued by liberals in Poland, especially conducted by the community of the Liberal and Democratic Congress, the Civic Platform. For all the years since the economic transformation, the political transformation, you have been telling us that the invisible hand of the market will do its job, that it is not important who owns the companies, that it is necessary to privatize, sell out and that the state should dispose of various assets. [[Don't talk to me. Talk to people.]] Sir, have gas networks in Opalenicy, Tarnów Podgórny, in these regions, been sold by local governments? [[Only in 15.0%. The rest belonged to...]] Mr President, then whoever bought gas networks from local governments continued to expand them. But in this way the networks came out of the public domain, often from Polish hands. And today... [[It doesn't matter.]] [[How's it gone? Ma.]] Mr, it matters, it matters. In your speech, you have not once noticed that the owner of the network is not a state-owned company, but G.EN. A gas that has nothing to do with the Treasury. And you are asking the Minister of the Government of the Brightest Republic of Poland why the company which someone once sold the gas pipelines has increased its prices today? [[Sir, 70% belonged to this company.]] No, sir, this is not the way to talk. The government has no influence on how a company is contracting gas, how it secures itself through purchasing policy, and in fact protects its customers from rising gas prices in an foreseeable perspective. [[Do you know who the main supplier is?]] Mr President, you inform us that gas - that is what you fought for - is bought on the Freight Exchange at market prices. [[Not this one, not this one.]] There is a market and I inform you that even though the gas networks in this area are not subject to any supervision by the Minister for State Assets, Members of the Law and Justice have prepared a solution to mitigate this situation. Today we are seeing a radical increase in gas prices not only in Poland, but also across Europe. Radical increase in gas prices. What does that tell you? This is because the pipelines leading from Russia to Western Europe were not used to fill gas warehouses after a very cold winter. To put it simply, Vladimir Putin and Gazprom did not complete their gas supply after the cold winter and today we have a smaller gas supply in Europe. As a result, there is greater price pressure while stimulating the economy after a pandemic lockdown, there is a very high demand for liquefied gas in China, in the countries of the Far East, resulting in current gas prices. Now you can see how far-sighted the policy of sleep was. President Lech Kaczyński, who started the construction of the gas terminal in Świnoujście after the next gas blackmail in Russia. Today, the Government of Law and Justice is finalizing the construction of the Baltic Pipe pipeline. These are the basic elements that affect gas prices. Once again, I would stress that the government had no influence on the contracts concluded by the company, which is not in any way related to the Treasury, G.EN. The gas which the Member did not wish to mention in his speech... [[Ten of them.]] ...and it doesn't affect the conditions under which this company, I repeat, and how early it buys gas for subsequent periods of sales to customers, in which volumes and at what prices. Regardless of who the company buys the gas from and how, the gas sales policy is the same everywhere. I stress that the Polish Government is taking action in the European arena to ensure that the relevant EU authorities take coordinated action to prevent manipulations and risks to all the advantages of Nord Stream 2. The result of these actions is the launch of investigative actions by the European Commission on Gazprom's behaviour, of which the Commissioner for the European Union is responsible. Ms Kadri Simson informed the Council at her meeting on 26 October. Whether we're talking about nitrogenated gas or methane gas... [[High methane.]] ...this is the whole gas market today. Whether it's high methane gas or nitrogened gas, it's a gas market (the bell) and companies that, regardless of whether they buy it abroad or extract it in the country, have one wallet of purchases, they look at the whole market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u15	The additional question is asked by Mr Jakub Rutnicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u16	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We really are asking on behalf of the people today, and the Minister - I say it with regret - has practiced only politics. The inhabitants of my municipalities, Kazimierz, Opalenicy, the district of Nowytomyski were really waiting for specific information. You have to be specific, Minister... [[The truth.]] ...and the truth, because why would G.EN. What time did you say you were buying gas? He buys gas from PGNiG, so this price was dictated by the company you're supervising. This price could be completely different, especially since, after all, ladies and gentlemen, most of the gas that supplies PGNiG to this company is supplied from Polish mines, Minister. And yet our gas, from our sources, doesn't have to be as expensive as that gas you were talking about, which is gas delivered from Gazprom. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There are opportunities, spaces where people can be helped. We, Minister, are calling for this because the disparities are too big. You have the ability to move, you can do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u17	Mr Maciej Małecki again corresponds to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I welcome the position of Members of the Civic Platform who acknowledge that the current policy in the form of telling Poles that the invisible hand of the market will do its... [[Voice from the O.R.: Stop bossing around.]] ...and that the free market will solve any problems is wrong. [[But who supplies the gas?]] You've confessed to this today. Today, the speaker of the Parliament denied the whole policy, the whole myth of the founding of the Civic Platform, when you said for years that politicians should not enter into relations between economic operators. [[Talk to people.]] I'll tell you more. Although G.EN. Gas or other companies are not in the area of the Treasury, Members of the Law and Justice have prepared a solution... [[Who's supplying the gas?]] ...a bill that will ease the surge in gas prices. [[So do we.]] This project is being examined in the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets. The point is that the draft prepared by the Members of the Law and Justice Group assumes the possibility of spreading gas prices to households during this steep increase. I would like to say that on the one hand, you are coming out here and expressing your alleged concern for the audience... [[It's not supposed to be, it's concern. Please don't...]] [[We don't bother you politically, not once.]] ...and yesterday at the committee meeting you did not support this project, you did not support solutions favorable to Polish gas customers. You still have the opportunity to change that when we vote on this project in the High House, I hope that today, so that the President of the Energy Regulatory Office can, and above all so that companies can submit applications for tariffs not as high as the company whose prices have hit the residents in your territory, because they were once sold gas pipelines, this market area. [[55% of PGNiG.]] I would therefore stress that the amendment proposed by Members of the Law and Justice of the Energy Law provides for the possibility of reducing the sudden surge in gas purchase prices by transferring price increases by the seller during the tariff period to subsequent tariff periods. Let us really meet above political divisions, knowing that this is about gas consumers. [[The gas is...]] And at the same time I hope that this situation will be such an opportunity to reflect, that not everything can be privatized, that not everything can be sold, just as pipeline networks, heating networks were sold out. [[But the prices, Minister...]] Unfortunately, this applies primarily to local authorities associated with the Civic Platform. [[It doesn't matter.]] I think it's such a strong argument, a day for reflection. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The same is true of the previous current question on what ends with the European Union's climate policy being disconnected from reality. Thank you very much. [[You didn't understand what I said.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u19	Thank you, Minister. The next question is asked by Anita Czerwińska, Marek Suski and Krzysztof Tchórzewski from Law and Justice on the announced increases in salaries for teachers. Please, Mrs Anita Czerwińska is the first to ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u20	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In view of the announcements of increases for teachers, I wanted to ask the Minister to clarify this information so that we could fully find out how the Ministry plans to carry out these increases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u21	Thank you. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Minister of State, is responsible for the Ministry of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u22	Mr. Marshal! Mrs. Member! High Izbo! Thank you for this question, because there is indeed information in the media area about the plans of the Ministry and the entire government regarding the remuneration of teachers. In general, we assume that the current salaries are too low and should be increased. In the last few years, the Law and Justice Government has led to a total increase in teachers' salaries by around 30%, but we still believe that these salaries should be higher. It is a special profession, a profession that determines what the next generations of Poles will look like, what Poland will look like in a dozen or dozen years. That is why we have proposed wage increases since September 2022 in the framework of the dialogue with trade unions and local governments. This wage increase will also be linked to the change of the so-called. professional pragmatism, i.e. changes in the working time of teachers at the board, reduction of bureaucratic responsibilities, so as to balance these changes in working time at the board, also promotion of work - its simplification, red tape - plus the introduction of a new category of so-called. the time of availability of the teacher so that the teacher is more accessible to parents and students. These planned wage increases are intended to increase the basic salaries of teachers by around 1 000. PLN at every degree of promotion. On the other hand, as far as average wages are concerned, this increase can reach up to 1,400 PLN. Maybe I'll show it at specific degrees of professional promotion and maybe it'll be clearer. Today, the minimum wage of the basic teacher of the trainee, i.e. the one who is just coming to work, begins his career, amounts to 2949 PLN. We had many signals - and so do we - that this is an unsatisfactory rate and should definitely increase. After the increase we propose, this rate will be PLN 4010. The most common degree of professional promotion of the teacher is a diplomat teacher, it is about 2/3 of all teachers working in Polish schools. Today, the basic salary of such a teacher is PLN 4046. After the increase from September 2020 its rate, according to our proposal, is PLN 5130. At the same time, I am only talking about the basic salary, and the teacher's salary is also composed of several other elements, among others. an internship allowance. In the case of teachers with 20 years and longer working time, and this usually applies to qualified teachers, this allowance will already be 20%. There are also oversized hours, functional allowances, thirteen and many other elements, as are with the average salary in the national economy. And if we take into account today's average or average salaries of teachers, here the increase will be even higher, because as I said, even about 1,400 PLN. Today, the average salary of starting a trainee teacher is PLN 3538. We want to raise this remuneration by far the strongest and after the change of rates from September 2022 it will amount to PLN 4950. You can see that there is a clear increase of over 1,400 PLN. In the case of qualified teachers, those most often working at our school, the rate of the current average salary is PLN 6510. When government proposals enter into force, this rate will be PLN 7890 - an increase of almost PLN 1400. It is therefore clear that this is a distinct difference in the rate of both the basic salary and the average salary. There are signals that this is associated with an increase in the number of so-called. board hours, but at the same time we show that the teacher works 40 hours a week, and not only within board hours. The fact that the teacher only works 18 hours is not true. After all, he additionally prepares for classes, tests, prepares these tests, meets with his parents, has consultations for students, goes on trips, participates in pedagogical councils, etc. This working time is 40 hours. So we can also compare this salary in 40 hours' working time. Today, the trainee's teacher has less than 18 PLN/h in 40-hour working time, and after an increase he would have more than 24 PLN - this is an increase in the rate by more than 6 PLN. In the case of a qualified teacher today it is PLN 24,30, and after raising the salary it will be over PLN 30 - it is also an increase by more than PLN 6,5 and PLN 6.5. It is clear, therefore, that the Ministry acted in cooperation with other resorts, because it needed the decision of the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Finance, to raise such salaries. The total cost of wage increases that we are planning is about PLN 8 billion - so much additionally over the year must appear in the budget so that these increases can be realised.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u23	Thank you very much. Anita Czerwińska also asks an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u24	Thank you very much. I'm dropping the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u25	There's no further question. Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Members of Iwona Sledzińska-Katarasińska, Dariusz Joński and Michał Szczerba ask a question about the Patriotic Fund. The first question is asked by Members Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska and Dariusz Joński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u26	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In July this year. Deputy Minister Jarosław Sellin, answering my and the Marshal Kidawa-Błońska question about the functioning of the so-called. the patriotic foundation, answered, quote: The grants received will be devoted to various projects promoting the history and national heritage of our homeland and initiatives promoting patriotic and civic attitudes. Those were announcements, and it looks like, among other things. Yes: almost PLN 4 million received protected by the Deputy Prime Minister of Gliński associated organizations of the Association of Independence March, National Guard Association and the Association of the Rota of Independence March. I therefore ask: What history and national heritage were promoted by Robert Bąkiewicz, the leader of these three extremely nationalist organizations, disturbing the singing of the national anthem by tens of thousands of people gathered in Castle Square? What patriotic attitudes pushed members of these militias to disturb the performance of Wanda Traczyk-Stawska, the soldier, the hero of the Warsaw Uprising? Shame and shame, ministers, shame and shame, the PiS government. [[Applause]] I have this question: have you already stepped forward, dear government, for the return of this money, and have you received it back? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u27	Further part of the question - Mr Dariusz Joński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am specifically asking about the issue of funding from the Patriotic Fund for two Associations: the National Guard and the Independence March. Well, they received 3 million PLN for the purchase of buses, off-road cars, as well as for the purchase of real estate. The Rules of Procedure clearly state that the assessment of two experts is binding. We have evaluation cards that show that both the association assessed by two experts in one and the other scored 184 points. On the other hand, on the website it suddenly turns out that they get 204 points and are therefore eligible for funding. I have a specific question for the Minister: Who changed the score so that these two associations associated with Mr Bąkiewicz could get the money, and when exactly will they return the money? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u29	The Secretary of State of the Ministry of Culture, National Heritage and Sports Jarosław Sellin shall answer. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u30	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As for Mrs Sledzińska-Katarasinska, it is difficult for me to answer them because there is no such thing as a patriotic foundation... [[Fund.]] ...but I guess it was a slip of the tongue. Mr Joński presented a more correct name by talking about the Patriotic Fund programme. As for this program, it's its own program... [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: I have spoken my language, Minister, sometimes.]] Yes, yes, I just figured it out, Member. As far as this program is concerned, it is the own programme of the Institute of National Heritage and Christian Democratic Thought to them. Roman Dmowski and Ignacy Jan Paderewski. We have more than 30 grant programmes in the Ministry and in the institutions under our control. In total, during the year, around 4 thousand were generally present. bodies receive various types of grants. As you're interested, out of those 4,000. grants awarded during the year by two grants, but even in this programme, which so particularly interested you, the Patriotic Fund, I would like to inform you that the applications were 2 000, and the beneficiaries ultimately 150, of course, within the framework of those scorings which were carried out there in accordance with the rules. I am also immediately responding to Mr Ionski's doubts that the Rules of Procedure say that two experts actually make a score. But the same rules say that then these scores are evaluated by a panel of experts, that is, a wider group. And the final decision on scoring and subsidization is made by the director of the Institute of National and Christian Democratic Heritage. So $2,000 came in. applications for more than PLN 550 million. The fund had an amount of PLN 30 million, not PLN 550 million, so it had to make quite strict selection and only 150 entities became beneficiaries of this fund. This program, this first edition of the Patriotic Fund grant, is called "Freedom in Polish." That's the full name of the program. You have been interested in the media space for a long time in just two of the 150 entities that received these grants. I can only present the first page of the list of beneficiaries to show that this Patriotic Fund is divided into very different initiatives, very different associations. I repeat, only the front page. It's there, for example. DABAR Foundation - Dialogue of Cultures and Religions Borderlands of Poland, Ukraine and Slovakia, Centre Foundation im. Władysław Grabski, Foundation for Polonia, Foundation of the Institute of the Republic of Poland. Paweł Włodkowica, Institute of Labour and Education, Polish Association of Horse Archery, Funny Mountain Foundation, Catholic Youth Association, Association of Remembrance of Victims of the Augustow Obstacle 1945, Association of Promni from Poland, Association of Gymnastics Falcons in Lublin, Association of the Deacon of the Movement of Light-Life, Foundation of the Quartermen Janusz Kurtyki, Association of Acts, etc., etc. 150 entities. You are interested in these two: the Independence March Association and the National Guard Association, which have received such a grant according to the score. You said you'd call these organizations militias from the Sejm stand. That's not my problem. This is the problem with the relationship between you and these associations. Maybe they're listening. [[They have limited legal personality.]] They are listening to this debate and I do not know what the reaction will be. I don't want to presume anything, but that's a pretty derogatory term. But you have the right to use that term in your freedom of speech, of course. [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska: It was meant to be.]] Not 4 million in total, only 3 million were allocated to these associations as part of the allocation of these funds, so each legally operating association in Poland within the framework of the widely understood NGO movement has the right to apply both to the government budget and to the local government budget, to the various authorities of the local government for grants and in accordance with the various procedures, regulations and programmes which are dedicated to individual grant programmes, to receive such grants. As far as I know, these associations, which are of particular interest to you, are organisations legally active in Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u31	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Szczerba now asks an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u32	Ladies and gentlemen! Isn't it stupid for the PiS government not to receive the Warsaw Uprising Museum for security purposes, the KARTA Centre Foundation or, Mr. Marshal, the National Army Museum in Cracow? [[Applause]] [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: Bravo!]] Minister! How is it possible that after six months after registering an ordinary association with a defective legal personality, the National Guard Association receives 1 million 700 for the purchase of its headquarters, even though the Patriotic Fund does not even have its own seat and sits an angle in the PKP? Ladies and gentlemen! With Mr Ionski, we have shown that you acted outside the regulations, that two experts assessed the conclusions at 184 and that the score you showed the world was 204. How have these 20 points been added? Neither the panel of experts nor the director has the right to change the scores. That's not in the rules. You haven't said anything about it at all. And the other thing. Neither Mr Joński nor Mrs Sledzińska-Katarasinska nor I will be intimidated in this matter. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're gonna dig into this case. We're gonna get every penny checked out. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u33	The Secretary of State of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Jarosław Sellin, is again responsible. [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: I wonder if the Minister knows what a patriot means.]] I wonder if you know.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u34	The fact that you cannot be intimidated is what I know, because you are famous for your courage and your tribune, and for various non-parliamental events. Mr. Marshal! Since I have almost three minutes to answer, and since there have been allegations here that someone has not received funding from the Patriotic Fund, I will remind you once again that the applications were 2,000 and that the funds could have been received by 150 entities. The proposals were worth 550 million, and there was 30 million to split. [[That's for the score, Minister.]] I'm gonna use the rest of my time to present this because you don't like the two decisions of the 150. [[But maybe for that score.]] There are also decisions here that somebody did not receive. So I'm gonna use that time and introduce the institutions that they've received... [[Voice from the room: Score.]] ... Columbus Generation Foundation, Museum of Nature - Lutosławski Courts in Drozdów... [[No, we're asking about the Warsaw Uprising Museum.]] ... Foundation Humble 90, Association of Historical Group Radosław., Order of St.Paul the First Desert Monastery at the Rock, Foundation Local Fund SMK, Archdiocese of Lublin, Primate Institute Stefan Cardinal Wyszyński, Roman Catholic Parish of St. St. James Ap. in Drozdów, Salesian Society, Foundation of Independent Service, Opatowski Cultural Center, Foundation of Obligation of Poland, Foundation of Good Council, Foundation of the Heritage of the Great Litevian Siege, Municipal Centre of Culture in Korczyn... [[Voice from the room: Please discuss the score.]] ... Association of Polish Journalists, Regional Museum Children of September, Associations Associations Confederation of Non-governmental Initiatives of the Republic of Poland, Foundation for the Poor's Hospital. Holy Jadwiga Queen in Biecz, Foundation of St. Benedict, Foundation of Advocate Nostra, District Centre of Culture Fabryczek, Patriotic Foundation. Witold Pilecki, Stefan Cardinal Wyszyński's Heritage Foundation, Foundation for Education and Art, Shooter of the Republic of Poland... [[Henrik Krzywonos-Strycharska: Twice she was.]] For various events. ... Action-Life Foundation, Patriotic Project Foundation, Pro Artis Association, Educational and Patriotic Foundation... [[Voice from the room: We're asking for a score.]] ... Association of Culture Scene, Association of the Institute of Remembrance and Credit Heritage, Foundation for Cultural Development in Wrocław, Foundation of Local Initiatives. Prof. Valerian Panki, Neighbors' Association 05 and 123, Foundation for Youth Initiatives, Foundation for Support of History and Polish Culture, Foundation for Poznan Institute, Foundation for Support of Polish Thought, Social and Cultural Foundation Sarmatia... [[Voice in the room: Answer the question.]] ... Association Odra-Niemen Podlasie Branch, Foundation Between Words, Circle of the Rural Houses of Różanka in Kaniewie, Association of Bonum Publicum, Foundation of the Social Observatory, Foundation of Help and Prisons of Poland, Foundation of the Civic Mission, Foundation of the Tradition of Cities and Villages, Foundation of the Ronina Club, Association of Lagielniks Soldiers of the National Army, Association of Wielkopolska Patriots, Mrągowskie Centrum Kultury, Foundation of the Family of Witaszków. I've run out of time. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Minister, question.]] [[There was no answer to any of the questions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u35	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. MEPs Krzysztof Gawkowski, Magdalena Bejat and Katarzyna Kotula, together with a group of Members, ask about government action to prevent poverty growth. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Kotula is the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Please provide current information on forecasts and analyses carried out or carried out by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy and the Ministry of Finance regarding the effects that the Polish Government will have on the quality and availability of public services, and thus on how it will affect the structure of household expenditure. Does the Ministry have information, carried out analyses and forecast how the decline in local government income will translate into the availability and quality of public services in the fields of education, health, culture, transport, caring services, social protection, support for the poorest, seniors and people with disabilities and their carers? Does the Ministry intend to draw up forecasts of how changes in the availability of public services will affect household budgets, in particular in families with children, families with multiple children and families with disabilities? Is the Ministry working on projects aimed at real compensation for the public service financing deficit that New Deal will cause or intends to develop such projects? If so, what are the consequences of these solutions? To what extent will they compensate for the losses of local governments? Lowering income tax, increasing the tax-free amount to 30,000. PLN and increase the tax progression threshold to 120 thousand. zł are the flagship elements of the Polish Order. This is a great change, the Left has been asking for it for more than a decade, but every solution, even the best and most necessary, can unfortunately be corrupted or screwed up, sometimes perhaps unintentionally and sometimes quite consciously. I have an ever-increasing concern, with the conviction that this is what we're dealing with here. 18 million citizens will benefit from tax changes, with a total of about PLN 9 billion in their pockets. The problem is that at the same time in municipalities and powiats there will be more than 14 billion a year, which means 14 billion less for the current functioning of schools, kindergartens, crèches, health clinics, public transport, renovations of buildings and roads, cultural houses and social policy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The government, leaving this 9 billion in the pocket of its citizens, at the same time cuts out a huge hole in it. The savings on lower PIT will quickly spread to services that will no longer be public. This will apply to all of us. Thank you, Member. We'll pay more for bus tickets, kindergartens and day care, we'll pay more for parents' advice. We'll pay more for the school trip and the mechanic, because the road holes are repairing local governments.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u37	Thank you very much, Member. I would like a reply from the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Ms Anna Schmidt. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u38	Dear Marshal, Membership! I answer the question about government action to prevent poverty growth, including among people with disabilities and their families, in the context of the Poletta Watch report and changes in the budget for 2022. As I have heard, Madam President, the subject area of the question has been widened, so the further part that you have asked us will be presented in writing. I'd like to answer the question that came up earlier. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, it is very prudent to interpret data on the increase in extreme poverty, because it is not related to a decrease in household income, but to limited income for certain groups, and here we are talking about people with disabilities, spending opportunities. Extreme poverty in 2019 was 4.2% and was the lowest since 2008. The causes of the increase in extreme poverty can be seen in the changes in consumption related to the decrease in household expenditure resulting from the restrictions caused by the pandemic and lockdown. It should also be stressed that the number of households receiving social assistance due to poverty is gradually decreasing. In 2020 such farms were 33 000, i.e. 8 percentage points less than in 2019. Action to prevent poverty growth is one of the priorities of the current government. They are directed, among others. to people with disabilities, but also, what is important, to their families. Support policy is aimed at improving the opportunities of people with disabilities in the labour market by increasing their autonomy, activity and mobility and reducing the cost of caring services for them and their families. Allow me to give you a few figures. Government and departmental programmes in this area are implemented through the Solidarity Fund. Their total value for 2022 amounts to PLN 530 million. It is a respite care program, which can be implemented by JST or NGOs. In total, this amount amounts to PLN 120 million. The programme is a personal assistant of a disabled person, who also implements local government units and non-governmental organisations. Here the amount of funding is PLN 250 million. A programme of care and housing centres, which in terms of financing tasks related to their creation, but also with the continuation of actions... It is implemented by local government units between 2021 and 2024. The amount allocated to its implementation is PLN 140 million. Of course, we have a programme on family support centers - 15 million PLN. In addition, new measures are planned in the framework of the "Samodzielności - Activeness - Mobility" package for the 2022-2024 period, for which an additional PLN 1 billion will be allocated. This amount includes 800 million of PFRON's funds for the programme package: living for people with disabilities, the Car Program and the programme on financing the creation of workshops for occupational therapy and ZAZs, i.e. occupational activities. 200 million, which will be spent within 3 years, will be covered by the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency, will be used to create a rental facility for rehabilitation equipment, medical devices and assistive technologies. In the framework of social and professional rehabilitation of persons with disabilities for 2022, PFRON funds planned to finance the remuneration of employees - i.e. PLN 3.6 billion, PFRON supervisory board programmes - PLN 750 million, actions in the field of equalization of differences between regions - PLN 100 million and tasks carried out by voivodship and district authorities, i.e. costs of operation of WTZs and ZAZs, i.e. over PLN 1.5 billion. In addition, with the support of EU funds under the Operational Programme, knowledge, education and development projects have been launched to involve people with disabilities in social and professional life. These are projects of Active Disabled Persons - tools to support the independence of people with disabilities, inclusion of excluded persons, and a draft law on the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. As part of the strategy prepared by the Government's representative for persons with disabilities adopted for 2021, 2030 is therefore a long-term strategy - it is envisaged inter alia. the development of a national employment programme for persons with disabilities. Government action to combat poverty also includes strong social assistance, i.e. a broad policy of state social assistance aimed, of course, at enabling people with disabilities and their families to overcome difficult life situations that they are unable to overcome by using their own improvements, limited resources and opportunities. The statistics for the years 2018 and 2020 held by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy show that the number of families in Poland who benefited from aid for poverty has decreased. In 2018, this aid was granted to 487 thousand. Families, 2019 - already 433 000 and in 2020. - It's only about 400,000. This is a drop of nearly 18%. in relation to 2018. In 2020, the number of people covered by social assistance, including families with children, also decreased in relation to data from 2018. This decrease is noted at about 8 percentage points, with the highest decrease in this period being noted in the case of aid for families with children, because it is about 20,5 percentage points. To the most important actions that... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Marshal, could I finish? Well, here it is. One minute. There you go. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Anna Schmidt: The most important actions that are part of the fight against poverty, the fight against poverty, are, above all, the support of local self-government units. It is the program of the meal at school and at home, the program of the care 75+, the program of the support of the senior, the program of the defeat of homelessness. The aid scheme for homeless people and the scheme for self-dependence. I hope that this answer is exhausting the doubts of your Members. If something needs to be clarified, of course, the Office of the Government's representative for persons with disabilities will send the rest of the reply in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u39	Thank you very much. Mrs Magdalena Beyat will ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u40	I'm so sorry. I forgot to put my card in. Hello? I can hear you now. Thank you, Minister. I have a clarification question. Let us be clear: expensive, inflation, the decline in pandemic income has long absorbed a large part of the programmes and direct transfers that the state is introducing, such as 500+, which the state likes to brag about. The problem of this programme, as well as many of the programmes that you are introducing, is that they are just ad hoc programmes that only deal with part of the problem. However, there are no systemic solutions. Instead of improving quality of life, rising wages, equal pay for men and women, good public services are money to hand every month and words: manage yourself. The effect is that it is evident that in the government of Law and Justice, however, there is still the spirit of Professor Balcerowicz atones somewhere, because you have an approach based on the fact that you have to give money first and let people manage themselves. I would really ask you to answer the question of Mrs Kotula and myself, which I will repeat. Don't you realize that you're trying to privatize public services? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How are you going to stop it? Just... Thank you. He's answering again... Mr. Marshal, if only in 15 seconds I could address the issue of people with disabilities, because the Minister also had the opportunity to complete her thoughts. You have talked a lot about people with disabilities, but the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal that compensates for the benefits for families of persons with disabilities is still not enforced. There is still no available personal assistance, even though you are still boasting that there is money for it and that money in the 2020 budget for allowances has been reduced for nutrition, and in general the budget for social assistance in 2020 is stagnating or a slight decline, which is de facto a reduction in social aid expenditure in the context of 6% inflation. I would therefore like to explain how you intend to improve the situation of families and to combat the possible increase in extreme poverty and poverty in general in relation to these cuts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u41	Thank you very much. Ms Anna Schmidt, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, again responds. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u42	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Firstly, if you are talking about our flagship programme, our government's 500+ programme, I must say that these are not ad hoc measures, because I would like to point out that in the years in which the programme was introduced, poverty in Poland, for example. among children, and also in this group of children with disabilities, fell from 10.5% between 2015 and 2019. up to 4.5% So this is a significant reduction in poverty. Secondly, it seemed to me that I had responded to your doubts, because the amounts that we spend on support programmes for people with disabilities, the start-up of personal assistance, care centres, which are supposed to support people with a moderate and lighter degree of disability that are able to function outside some, say, a closed centre, only in an apartment protected with the function of an assistant and self-enter into the everyday functions, functions of life, reduced precisely by disability, clearly show that all government activities and billions of zlotys, and here I have quoted dozens of different indicators, including quota indicators, clearly indicate that the government's policy within which it is within this term, I remind you, Mrs, in preparation for the basic condition of the Union and the European Commission... It was our government that prepared this program. It is a long-term strategy, for 10 years, to support people with disabilities. These are long-term and broad actions aimed at supporting people with disabilities and creating comprehensive care for them, and the programmes I have mentioned - unfortunately I have run out of time to clarify a few other issues - clearly testify to the wide range of actions that the government is taking. If it does not satisfy you, we will answer the next part of the questions in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u43	Thank you very much, Minister. We'll proceed with the next question. Members of Mieczysław Kasprzak and Jarosław Rzepa from the Polish Coalition ask about the liquidation of the departments of the local regional courts. The first question is asked by Mr Jarosław Rzep.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u44	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In recent days, the county authorities of Pyrzycki and the police have frozen information about a positive opinion by the Ministry of Justice, at the request of the President of the District Court in Szczecin, of the intention to liquidate the local departments in Pyrzyce of the District Court in Stargard and the local departments in the Police of the District Court in Szczecin-Right Coast and West. The Pyrzyce court is to be wound up on 1 January 2022 and the Police court on 1 April 2022. In both of these county cities, which live more than 100,000. residents, currently functioning criminal departments and perpetual books. Minister! The transfer of cases from Polic and Pyrzyc to Szczecin and Stargard will reduce the speed of criminal proceedings and perpetual books mainly due to the remoteness of the court's seat from the localities in the police and Pyrzycki districts. Today's the day Only a few miles tops, and tomorrow it can be a few dozen. Very difficult, and sometimes even excluded, will be access and presence in court due to the lack of functioning connections by public transport. Mainly concern it will be villages in the rural district of Pyrzycki, which do not have a regular connection with Stargard. The same will apply to rural municipalities of Dobra, Nowe Warpno or Kołbaskowo in the police district. The costs and expenses incurred by the Ministry of Justice will undoubtedly increase. It is estimated that the expenses associated with the appearance of witnesses will increase around threefold. The higher costs will appear on the side of the prosecutor's office, the police, the National Tax Administration and the Old Towns. Incredibly important, Minister, it should be that prosecutors take care of their tasks, police officers guard the security of citizens, not devote their time to unnecessary travel to a court not by a few, but by several dozen kilometers. Finally, I would like to mention the social consequences of your announcements. It is important to remember the victims, the interests of the eternal books, the elderly, for whom the expedition from their localities to Pyrzyc and Polic is already quite difficult and challenging. Don't assure me, Minister, that throwing things from Pyrzyc into one bag of Stargard cases (the bell) or the police into the Szczecin will shorten their time. This is, Minister, physically impossible, even because of the way things are assigned. Thank you, sir. The situation of the employees of these courts may also lead to their individual decisions to terminate judicial work. That is why I appeal, on behalf of the inhabitants of the police and Pyrzycki districts, the local government of these districts, the prosecutors and the police, to withdraw from the intention to liquidate these departments, to leave them, and in the future, the minister, thanks to the proposals made today by the local government, I would like us to start discussions about the establishment of a branch, not of a branch, but of regional courts in Pyrzyce and the Police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u45	Thank you. It corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Catherine Frydrych. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think the question is no longer relevant. The question is: Why does the Ministry of Justice intend to liquidate the overseas departments of the regional courts? These are long-distance departments in Pyrzyce and the Police. This question was addressed on 27 October. The decision to stop the work related to the abolition of these local departments was taken earlier before the question was raised. The answer to such a question is therefore that it is not currently planned to abolish the overseas departments in these courts. I would just like to point out - and the honourable Member has already mentioned this - that these are the overseas departments, the penal departments and the perpetual books departments. Historically, the local departments in the Police have been operating on the basis of the previous Grodzki court since 2001, while the local departments in Pyrzyce since 1 January 2013. As far as the situation of the overseas departments in Pyrzyce is concerned, the decision to set up these departments was only dictated by the local situation in the court. At the moment, the court has good, very good local conditions, and it would be theoretically possible to transfer these departments to the court. The question of the distance between the Police and the court in Szczecin and Pyrzyce and the court in Stargard was also raised. Those distances were tested. As far as Police is concerned, the distance to the premises is 17 km, and from Pyrzyc to Stargard 27.7 km. The Ministry of Justice shall always carry out a thorough analysis before deciding on the abolition of any overseas department. We are guided by the welfare of citizens, by ensuring that they have access to justice. We also take into account the circumstances connected with the burden of jurors, because this burden actually provides a guarantee of a quick, efficient diagnosis of the case. We take into account the influence, the number of jobs, the actual cast in the unit. And as I said, at the moment the work is not continued, they were stopped before the question was asked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u47	Thank you very much. An additional question will be asked by Mr Jarosław Rzep. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u48	Thank you very much, Minister, for this declaration, the residents will surely be relieved. On the other hand, I would like to ask, Minister, if, in this case, we could act here according to the old saying: where will, there way, and according to what I said in the last part of my speech, namely in the context of the self-government declaration regarding the premises, whether you see the possibility of starting work on the creation in these two towns, in Pyrzyce and in the Police, of the regional courts with enlargement, even in the Pyrzyce court, of the family department. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u49	Thank you. Once again, she responds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Katarzyna Frydrych.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u50	That's kind of the point, because there are criminal departments and perpetual books in these towns. In fact, as far as the departments of perpetual books are concerned, you can direct applications electronically, you can direct applications in writing, the question of access to criminal departments only. At the moment, the Minister of Justice's announcement on judicial reform needs to be taken into account - work is underway on the issue of the so-called. a new network of courts and certainly the fact that the Member has been polite to mention at the moment, which he has asked about, will also be the subject of an in-depth analysis. As I say, the Minister of Justice always takes care of the well-being of citizens and ensuring that they have access to justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u51	Thank you very much, Minister. We'll proceed with the next question. Members of Jarosław Gonciusz, Wojciech Szarama and Bożena Boris-Szopa from Law and Justice ask about the revision of the rules on the introduction and cancellation of summer time. The first question is asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u52	Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, The idea of moving away from time changes has been in national and EU forums for several years. In the European Parliament alone, debates and public hearings took place on this subject, while the European Commission held a public consultation in the Member States, according to which nearly 90% voters declared their willingness to leave the time change. The next area for discussion is opened by the European Commission's Communication on Time Change in 20222026. According to this document, all Member States The European Union must prepare legislation on the basis of which the existing arrangements related to time change will continue. In view of the recurring theme of time change and the indications that this activity has been abandoned in the organization of our lives, I would like to ask whether the Ministry is working on regulations that would stop ordering time to change from winter to summer and vice versa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u53	Thank you very much. Now I'm asking for an answer. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology, Ms Olga Semeniuk, is responsible. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u54	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The Ministry of Development and Technology prepared a new regulation by the President of the Council of Ministers on the introduction of the cancellation of the Central European summer time in the years 2022 to 2026 and started its legislative process. The previous Regulation covered the years 2017 and 2021. On 27 April 2021, the European Commission issued a new Communication on changes in time between 2022 and 2026: a Communication from the Commission in accordance with Article. 4 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on summer time arrangements - a timetable for summer time. Therefore, all Member States The European Union must prepare legislation implementing the regulations resulting from this Communication, on the basis of which the existing arrangements and arrangements in this area will continue. From the outset, Poland has supported action taken by the European Commission in 2018 to revise the Directive as complying with social expectations, but at the same time, like other Member States of the European Union, has encouraged the Commission to present a comprehensive analysis of the benefits and socio-economic consequences of the withdrawal from twice a year of the change of time, which has not yet been prepared. The problem is multifaceted, it concerns many areas of life, personal, social, economic, and other conditions in each EU country, such as: geographical, cultural or other time zones. Poland, like other countries, believes that, from an economic point of view, harmonisation in terms of time between Member States is essential, mainly because of the need for such harmonisation in the European Union's single market. If time changes and time shifts were to take place, all Member States would have to have the time needed to reach a position on what time should apply in a given country in relation to what time will apply in neighbouring countries in a particular region of the European Union. However, no action has been taken in the Union since the end of 2019 to develop the final shape of a directive abolishing seasonal changes in time, which would also involve stepping up work to achieve a harmonised position by the Member States of the European Union on the time in force. Currently, among others, Also due to the ongoing pandemic, no work is being done in this area within the European Union. Thus, for the time being, it is not known what the future of this project will be and whether we will eventually move away from seasonal changes in time. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u55	Thank you very much. Another question, too, Mr... Member again. Because you've disappeared from me. Oh, it's, uh, it's good.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u56	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The Japanese have calculated that using summer time can reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 400,000. t and help save up to 930 million l of fuel. Change itself is important, and the costs that the body incurs to adapt to it are important. The biological clock of each of us will not immediately accept the change of time as valid, hence the process of adapting to it and the prospect of adaptation are costly for our psychophysical comfort. Therefore, I would like to ask whether the Ministry knows any estimates or makes estimates of the possible loss to economic and social sectors caused by time changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u57	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology, Ms Olga Ewa Semeniuk, is again responsible. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u58	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Yes, such analyses were carried out in the years 2018 and 2019. We will submit them to you in writing, and these are our internal analyses which have not been presented in the European Union. As I said in my speech, the timing of the directive must also take into account the adaptation of individual Member States to the revision of the directive. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u59	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the next question. Lydia Burzyńska, Joanna Borowiak, Anna Milczanowska, Elżbieta Duda and Mariusz Trepka from Law and Justice will ask a question about mobile applications for job seekers. She is the first to ask Mrs Lidia Burzyńska a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u60	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For many years, the Law and Justice Government has introduced instruments aimed at achieving a very important level for society, namely reducing the unemployment rate. Successful minimum wage increases, social and activation programmes for the unemployed and excluded have tangible consequences in terms of falling unemployment. Many people also decide to return to their homeland after a period of economic emigration, which is very nice. For example, by September 2019 almost PLN 13 billion of support for more than 1.5 million people was provided under active labour market programmes. Since March this year. the level of unemployment recorded in Poland has steadily decreased. According to preliminary data at the end of September 2021, 936 thousand were registered at the labour offices. unemployed persons. Compared to the end of August this year. This figure decreased by almost 25 thousand. people, i.e. more than 2.5%. That means the drop rate was almost twice as high as the month before. Dear Minister, My questions are as follows. How did the data on registered unemployment appear in individual voivodships, with particular emphasis on Śląskie, Kujawsko-Pomorskie and Łódź voivodships? As the number of unemployed has changed in the above mentioned period. Voivodship? Please compare the condition with August this year. for September this year Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u61	Thank you very much. This question will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Mr Stanisław Szwed. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u62	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for these questions. This is a very important topic related to the situation on the labour market. She mentioned the support that we have provided during a very difficult period of pandemic in the employment offices of the business sector, workers. It's worth remembering these numbers, because it was support. also by voivodship labour offices, with funds from the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund. It is practically an amount of more than PLN 16 billion. Yesterday we talked about this during the debate, but it is worth recalling that more than 35 billion PLN was addressed to entrepreneurs by county labour offices in the form of loans. This was true for both micro-entrepreneurs and large companies. Support of more than PLN 50 billion, which went to entrepreneurs through employment offices, has affected that today we can say that we have a good situation on the labour market and in some places even very good. Unemployment is very low. These actions that we took under the anti-crisis shield - because, of course, all this aid is over 220 billion PLN, we also have the funds that we passed on from the financial shield - caused that what we assumed at the start of the pandemic, which is that the most important element is the protection of jobs, has worked out for us. I think today we can say with all responsibility that we have protected jobs. Hence the low level of unemployment, as said by the Member. At the end of September it was 5.6%. If we collided with the scale, with Eurostat data, which is a little bit different from statistics, it would turn out that we are practically the third, fourth place in Europe when it comes to countries with the lowest unemployment rate. There was also a time when we had the lowest unemployment rate throughout the European Union. I think that if we compare this to these data, as I said, we can safely say that the actions we have taken have protected jobs. In absolute numbers, that's 935,000. unemployed. This figure decreased by over 26 thousand compared to August. persons. Of course, there are people in this group who are active, but passive persons are also registered in the employment offices. As for the issues related to the various voivodships, which you asked about, in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship we have a number of unemployed at 63 thousand, which means we have a decrease of almost 3% compared to August. And if we spread it out in an annual perspective, that's a 10% drop compared to the previous 10-month period. Kujawsko-Pomorskie unemployment rate - 7.9% , i.e. slightly higher than the national average but lower than August, but also lower than the end of September 2020. As far as the Łódź voivodship is concerned, the situation is similar, similar level of unemployment - 63 800 people. The unemployment rate is lower, at 0.5%. And there's also a drop in August, compared to September Ub. year - decrease by 0,3%. I think these are also some of the better data we're talking about. If we are talking about the Śląskie voivodship from which you come, then of course, after the Wielkopolskie voivodship, this is the voivodship where the lowest unemployment rate is, it is 4.5%. So in the whole country we have the lowest unemployment rate in Wielkopolska voivodship and the second voivodship is Śląskie voivodship. On the other side we have Warmińsko-Mazurskie voivodship, where the unemployment rate is always higher, but it is also not double-digit, i.e. we have, I think, good information also for the inhabitants of Warmińsko-Mazurskie voivodship, because there is also less unemployed there. But back to Silesian Voivodeship, 83 thousand. unemployed, 3.2% decrease compared to last month and annually compared to ub. r. by almost 7%. These figures show that we are at the forefront of the lowest unemployment rate, as I said, according to Eurostat - 3.4%. If we collided with the average in the European Union, that's 6.8% , and in the euro area, the level of unemployment is even higher. The actions we have taken, I think, show that these are actions that have allowed us to protect jobs. As I mentioned, more than 8 million jobs were protected through employment offices - over 35 billion PLN and voivodship labour offices with guaranteed benefits funds - 16 billion PLN. Maybe just a little bit more information about what support these three voivodships have. For the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship it is over 1,600 million PLN, almost 350 thousand PLN. jobs were supported; in the Łódź voivodship it is the amount of PLN 2100 million, and almost 482 thousand. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the Śląskie voivodship is PLN 4,700 million, over 1,100 thousand. jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u63	Thank you, Minister. The additional question is asked by Mrs Joanna Borowiak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u64	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Thank you very much to the Minister for providing comprehensive information on the measures taken by the government to protect jobs, especially in a pandemic situation that has affected us. I would like to ask, Minister, about the free mobile application prepared by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy for job seekers. With what date is it possible to implement this application and for what effects is its preparation calculated for job seekers?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u65	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Minister Stanisław Szwed, is again responsible. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u66	Thank you, Marshal. Thank you for that question, too. Mobile app eWork is running, we launched it in October. She is taking on, I would say, the pace, and this is a very good action, because thanks to this application we have the opportunity to get job offers and we have the Central Base of the Job Offering, which is functioning, is already available, it is over 70,000. job vacancies. From the data we have every day: Central Employment Offer Base visits 80,000. users, which means we can count the 7 million visitors per year. So this application will definitely help employers look for people who are looking for a job. Conversely: for workers who need and are looking for a job, there is an offer of job vacancies. 52% users use the Central Business Base on smartphones, 45% on desktops, 3% on tablets, that will also change. As far as this application is concerned, it is important that it is not only access to the Central Employment Offer Base, but also new notifications about new offers, whether it's training, whether it's about offers where fairs take place, or the issue of various activities that work offices take, which can be obtained and obtained very quickly through the application. I think we are showing how we are moving forward in the area of the application, because we have a very good mCitizen app, now there is eWork. During the pandemic, e-prescriptions, e-directions, e-releases worked very well. All these actions that we have undertaken within the framework of the government allow us to be at the forefront of European countries when it comes to the implementation of digital Poland, which is extremely important for our residents and for what is needed in the current business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u67	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Members of Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Beata Strzałka and Teresa Glenc from Law and Justice ask about the centre of social integration. She is the first to ask the question of Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u68	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Social inclusion centres have been operating for more than 18 years. They operate under the provisions of the Social Employment Act of 13 June 2003. Their task is to provide services for social and professional reintegration, among others. long-term unemployed, disabled, addicted to alcohol and drugs. According to the GUS data, 186 centres operated in 2019, of which 2/3 were run by non-profit organisations, the rest were mainly run by municipalities, 8 CIS were active in social cooperatives. In total, more than 11 thousand took part in the classes. persons. CISs are an important form of support for non-workers. Not all unemployed qualified to be assisted by the CIS. An amendment to the Social Employment Act is currently being prepared. The main objective of this revision is to adapt its legislation to changing socio-economic conditions in the country. Minister, my question is: What proposals for changes in the functioning of social inclusion centres are envisaged in the draft amending act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u69	Thank you very much. I ask the Secretary of State again at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy of Mr Stanisław Swed. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for that question. Maybe I can answer the main question first about the social employment law. This law is already years old, it is from 2003, and it needs to be amended, and we have therefore prepared quite a broad amendment, which is the answer to the problems that you have raised in the question. We want both CIS and KIS to have better opportunities for action, but the changes are wider. I'm just gonna name a few of them. At the moment we are at such a stage that the bill is before it is adopted by the Council of Ministers. I hope that it will be in Parliament soon, where we can discuss it. Let us remember that we are talking about social employment, about the social economy that affects those who most need such support. I think that all the actions we take serve this purpose so that we can best assist such persons. In terms of improving the situation of participants in social inclusion centres or social inclusion clubs, the project foresees inter alia.: increase in the amount of the integration benefit to 120% The unemployment benefit during the entire participation in activities of the Social Inclusion Centre, including the trial period - currently only during the first trial period, the participant receives only 50% of the integration benefit, i.e. there will be an improvement in the situation; the flexibility of the duration of participation in the CIS with the assumption that it will be up to 30 hours a week - now it is 6 hours a day, no more than 40, including provisions on working time for disabled persons; the extension of the duration of participation in the CIS by 6 months, totaling 24 months - now it is 18 months; the granting of additional days free of classes, a total of 12, with full integration benefit - today it is half less, 6, i.e. an additional possibility; the increase of the upper limit of the incentive premium; the possibility for persons entitled to a disability pension to participate in activities organised by social inclusion clubs. In this law we also adopted a new solution - which was problematic when we were going to centers or clubs - regarding the condition of poverty. Social Services had a problem with that, so we are leaving this condition, which must be met. So that additional changes are made in this respect. There are also solutions covering simplification issues in terms of supported employment. When referring to work, it is expected to reduce the period of employment for participants, i.e. the employer's component, up to 6 months, with reimbursement of costs. So there's a lot of change. As I have already said, there will be an opportunity to tell you again during parliamentary work. These changes are necessary and necessary. Taking advantage of this opportunity, I would like to provide some information on the functioning of CISs and KISs now and in the past months, because we know that the pandemic period was a difficult time for both centres and clubs to function. Statistically, in 2019 the number of social integration centres was 202 and the number of social inclusion clubs was 296. In 2020, this year has not yet been closed, it is still ongoing, the number of CISs has increased to 205, and the number of clubs has increased to 313, i.e. despite a difficult period of time, both CISs and KISs have been created. In 2019 the number of participants amounted to more than 11 thousand, in 2020 this number was higher and was almost 20,000. I think this is important when it comes to the information that we are presenting to you. This includes, of course, the return to the labour market of graduates who can function within the CIS. Let me just say briefly that action is being taken all the time to support the CIS and the KIS. This was the case during the pandemic period, but we are also now announcing another recruitment involving support to the CIS and the KIS. In 2022 the amount of PLN 3 million is foreseen for this purpose in November. This will be addressed both to individuals who will introduce such centres or clubs as well as to non-governmental organisations. In conclusion, I would like to say that these actions which we are taking, I think, are heading in such a direction as to enable and improve the situation of centres and clubs and to give them greater opportunities for operation and action. This is due to changes in the subject matter of the revision of the Social Employment Act. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u71	Thank you, Minister. An additional question is asked by Mrs Beata Arrow. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u72	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The condition for participation in socio-occupational reintegration activities and even the use of single individual specialist guidance in KIS is the implementation of a social contract concluded at the local social assistance centre. The current solution is often a major obstacle mainly for non-governmental organisations operating social inclusion clubs in small towns or rural communities, where awareness of the need for active forms of social exclusion prevention is not sufficiently high even among social workers. Minister! Could a direct reintegration agreement between a participant and a social inclusion club operator be the basis for assistance by the KIS? Of course, then the clubs would be obliged to inform the participant of the activities concerned about their participation in the club and about the conclusion of the contract and the results of its implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u73	Thank you very much. I will once again ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy of Mr Stanisław Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u74	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Of course, I'll answer that question. Of course, within the framework of the law, we also want to extend the catalogue of bodies entitled to create social inclusion centres. It's also targeted so that we can give more opportunities. It's about what you asked me when it comes to concluding contracts. We do not have such a direct provision in the changes to the law, but we are still in the process of working on the law, so it is also worth considering the proposals that you spoke about. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u75	Thank you very much, Minister. We'll proceed with the next question. Members of Sławomir Nitras, Arkadiusz Marchewka, Magdalena Filiks, Jerzy Hardie-Douglas, Marek Hok, Artur Łącki, Grzegorz Napieralski and Piotr Benedict Zientarski from the Civic Coalition will ask a question about the exclusion of Western Pomerania communication. Mr Sławomir Nitras is the first to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister, we are asking a question on behalf of West Pomerania and Szczecin. Szczecin is a unique city, because it is located farthest from the capital, from Warsaw - more than 600 km. I'm sure you know there are nine hours on the train to Szczecin today. As far as planes are concerned, they fly two a day, and the cost of tickets is up to 2,000. zł. Minister, airline tickets from Warsaw to Berlin, to Paris purchased at LOT are cheaper than tickets to Szczecin. The problem of the exclusion of a semi-million-dollar transport city, a agglomeration of 600 thousand. The population, almost 2 million voivodship, is simply dramatic. There is no such voivodship and unfortunately even in the plans for the central airport you did not include Szczecin as the city from which you can reach this port. I would like to ask you today about two key projects from the perspective of the Szczecin agglomeration. Szczecin is a city through which the national road no. 10 passes. In the north of Szczecin there are large production facilities in the Police and all transport passes through the city. To arrange transport in Szczecin, we need two projects. The first concerns the Szczecin Metropolitan Railway. In fact, in all major Polish agglomerations outside Szczecin this metropolitan railway already exists. And we need a bypass, a west bypass of Szczecin, to get a circular transport out of Szczecin. The Szczecin Metropolitan Railway is to be dedicated in 2023. These projects, which are self-government, which means we will have stops, we will have stops to stop, but we will not have a railroad, because this is what the state company is responsible for today, which just screwed up with the tenders. My question, Minister: When will we have a dedicated Szczecin Metropolitan Railway because we were supposed to have it in 2023? And question two. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Brudziński, Minister Adamczyk promised us that in June a tender will be issued to circumvent Western Szczecin. There is no invitation to tender, and the Directorate-General is voting (the bell) that we will wait for years longer. Without these two projects, you bring Szczecin to the 19th century. Minister, on behalf of the residents, I expect an answer to the question: When? I hope that's the answer: in a year, in two, in three, not in 12. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u77	Thank you. Mr Rafał Weber, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, is responsible. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, Szczecin is an important city, a nice city, supported by the Government of Law and Justice. I think that the last decisions of the Polish Order give it the greatest expression. But also the actions of the Ministry of Infrastructure, which have been undertaken in recent years, are proof that we want to develop communication not only in Szczecin itself or in Szczecin, but in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship at all, because in our opinion the city should be viewed from the perspective of the whole region. Centres such as Szczecin, Poznań, Olsztyn, Gorzów Wielkopolski, Zielona Góra are centres which are the capitals of the regions concerned and through this prism you should look at the whole, because it gives such a comprehensive picture of the development of railway, road and aviation infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen! What is the Ministry of Infrastructure doing to improve the communication of the Western Pomerania in order to eliminate the exclusion of communication, as the Member put it? Since Szczecin is excluded from communication - in my opinion it is not that bad, and it will be even better - it means that for years nothing has been done to change this situation. Let me remind you that eight years of the Civic Platform's rule is a fact. We don't operate in a vacuum. We're after you, and we have to deal with those problems that you haven't solved. As far as the western ring road of Szczecin is concerned, I confirm the following fact: the western ring road of Szczecin has been entered into the government's We have money prepared for it, and it is not small, because more than PLN 5.5 billion. When these resources are needed to run, they will be launched. At the moment, the Szczecin branch of the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways is in the process of preparing a tender which will soon be announced for the design and, ultimately, the construction of the western ring road Szczecin. This is the situation with regard to this investment. Another important road investment, which will improve Szczecin's communication not only with Warsaw, not only with the Central Communication Port, but also with central Poland, is the construction of the S10 expressway. Allow me, my fellow Members, to focus on this moment, because the S10 expressway has also been included in the Government's National Road Construction Programme. At the moment, as far as the S10 is concerned, the first sections of this road are already functioning. One of them is a series of roads next to Szczecin, i.e. Kobylanka, Morzyczyna, Zieleniewa and Wałcza bypasses. As regards further sections towards the intersection with the S11 expressway and further towards the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodeship, Bydgoszcz, Torun, then towards Warsaw, these sections are in preparation. We are working on submitting an application for environmental decision. If these applications have been submitted, the environmental authorities are hosted at the moment: the Regional Environment Director or the General Environment Director. I assure you that funds for the construction of the S10 expressway throughout the whole section, and in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship, and in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship, and in the Wielkopolska Voivodeship, as well as in the Mazowieckie Voivodeship, are also provided. Another important section of the expressway that communicates the Western Pomerania is the S11 expressway. At the moment, there is a section between Koszalin and Bobolici - 48 km of road under construction. This section is scheduled for the third quarter of 2023. At the moment it already operates on the S11 expressway bypass Szczecinek. Between Szczecin and Poznań, for parts of sections, an application was submitted for an environmental decision and for another part these applications will be submitted in the near future. This is the issue of road investments. When it comes to communicating Western Pomerania, it is also worth mentioning here another program, which facilitates communication, which is important for local governments from the Zachodniopomorskie voivodship. It's a government road development program. With regard to the summary of all the funds that have been transferred to the Western Pomerania under the Government's Road Development Fund, this is PLN 520 million over the 6 years of the rule of law and justice. On the other hand, if we sum up 8-year-old governments of the Civic Platform (The Bell), it is the amount of PLN 307 million. So that the difference of 200 million PLN in favour of the rule of law and justice. I think that local government officials from the West Pomerania region appreciate it and see it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u79	Thank you, Minister. An additional question will be asked by Mr Arkadiusz Carrot. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u80	Mr. Marshal! Minister! You said that Szczecin is a pretty city supported by the government. I agree with the first one, that's true, but the second one is complete nonsense. I get the impression that you guys are looking at what you're doing, that Szczecin has written off completely. After all, the Minister of Infrastructure said that in June there will be a tender for the Western ring road of Szczecin. It's almost November and nothing has happened at all. I expect you, Minister, to be specific. When will this tender be executed? And second thing, the Szczecin Metropolitan Railway. After all, PiS Members a dozen months ago posed beautifully for photos when a contract was signed for this railroad. Today, it turns out that there is a great risk that local governments and everyone who makes this investment will have to pay back PLN 0.5 billion because you are not doing it. I expect a specific answer. When will the Szczecin Metropolitan Railway (The Bell) be built? Is he sure that this money won't have to be returned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u81	Thank you. Mr Rafał Weber, Minister of State, is responsible for the Ministry of Infrastructure. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u82	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! As the Member himself mentioned, the agreement for the construction of the metropolitan railway in Szczecin is signed. According to the contractual schedule, the deadline for the execution and termination of this investment is 2023. Of course, there are risks, as with any investment, concerning certain delays that may occur. On the other hand, we will do our utmost to ensure that this term is respected and respected. By stopping at rail investments, I said at the beginning of my speech that we do not operate in a vacuum that we need to clean up some issues after our predecessors. It is worth mentioning how Polish railroads, especially in Western Pomerania, were taken care of by politicians of the Civic Platform or politicians who were adopted by the Civic Platform. I'm talking here, for example. about the premieres of Leszek Miller or Mark Belce, who are, after all, MEPs from the European Coalition, because that was probably the election committee in 2018. Information, which is also publicly available, shows that in the years when these gentlemen ruled Poland, and also when Poland was ruled by Donald Tusk and Ewa Kopacz, in the Western Pomerania, 300 km of railway lines were liquidated, ladies and gentlemen. You've worked 300 kilometers of railroads. [[Yeah, you did.]] [[The train was going four hours, now...]] You're specialists in sawing. We need to clean up after you, and we'll do it in the West Pomerania as well. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[The Chechens will thank you.]] [[Well, first of all, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u83	Thank you very much, Minister. Now the last of a series of questions. Members of Waldemar Andzel and Barbara Bartus, together with a group of other Members, will ask a question about the extension of the section of the A4 motorway in Krakow. The first question is asked by Waldemar Andzel and Barbara Bartus.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Driving the A4 motorway on the section of Balice junction - ul. The 17 km long swimming pool due to its high traffic will be extended by the third lane and the Kraków Balice and Kraków Skawina nodes will be expanded. Please indicate the scope of the work as well as the expected dates of completion of the investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u85	Mrs Barbara Bartus.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u86	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, I take this highway very often, and I particularly want to ask you about the entrance from Balice Airport. In fact, these two lanes, which were designed and built, are significantly not enough to call it a freeway at all. The third lane is necessary. The good information we've received is hopeful, because it's usually on this section of the highway. Dear Minister, But the question is, what were the reasons why the highway's capacity was running out so fast. Not so long ago - it was the end of the 20th century. - that highway was built. Why did it happen so quickly that this capacity was running out? And there's joy because we're starting to design. So I ask that you bring the minister closer when you can expect that this third lane will actually rise. Everyone - we, Małopolany, but not only Małopolska, also Silesia, all those who move there, and especially use our airport in Balice - look forward to it. And Krakow. This highway is also the (Bingle) bypass of Kraków. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Weber again corresponds to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u88	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Highway A4 is the main communication axis of our country on the east-west line. It is therefore important that it is a safe, comfortable way, but also with adequate capacity, so that it can be used in an unlimited and unfettered way. Therefore, in the last months, it can be said that the political decisions have been made, which are of course the result of a substantive analysis, in order to expand the A4 motorway - not only at Krakow, but wider. The A4 motorway will be expanded by the third lane between Tarnow and the Cross, i.e. on a section of 453 km. We have the funding provided for this under the government's national road construction programme, not very little, because it is more than 35 billion PLN. This shows that the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki wants to develop Polish road infrastructure, that he sees these problems that occur at the moment, and is doing everything he can to solve these problems. As far as A4 is concerned in the vicinity of Krakow, it is actually an important function in the handling of transport traffic, and it is also a valuable complement to the communication system of the city itself. In the course of the analyses carried out by the Ministry of Infrastructure, it was considered that the key element of the expansion of the A4 motorway by the third lane should first be the section from Balice junction to ul. Bathing in Krakow. The currently functioning system in the form of a cross section of two lanes in each direction is already exhausting its capacity, which can cause periodic obstacles in traffic and reduce predictability in the use of this section of the Kraków motorway bypass. It is these enormous transport needs, justified by the movement in this section, that clearly confirm the need for expansion. Allow me to quote the average annual traffic data according to the overall traffic measurement and this will be the answer to Mrs Bartus' question. According to this measurement, average daily annual traffic amounted to 49 thousand. vehicles daily between Balice I and Balice II nodes up to 64 thousand. vehicles daily between Kraków Tyniec and Kraków Skawina nodes. There is a further increase in traffic on the Krakow motorway bypass between Balice junction and ul. Bathing - we estimate that in 2040 we can expect up to 90 thousand on this episode. vehicles daily. Hence the decision to expand the A4 motorway. Expansion of the A4 motorway from Balice junction to ul. The third lane of the swimming pool will concern the extension of the motorway itself A4 from Balice node to ul. Bathing, extension of the Kraków Balice node II, as well as the extension of the Kraków Skawina junction. With regard to the extension of nodes, it should be pointed out that this action will contribute not only to improving capacity but, above all, to improving safety. Such a solution fulfilling both these criteria will be the extension of the present node of Kraków Skawina from the semi-conic system, with such a arrangement we are currently dealing with, to a system full of clover. As regards the timetable for this task, Minister Andrzej Adamczyk has signed an investment programme in relation to preparatory work in recent days. In line with the planned timetable, the preparatory process for this investment will cover the years 2021 to 2024. At this stage, the project documentation for the technical and environmental study will be developed and a decision on environmental conditions will be obtained. The planned environmental decision should be obtained in 2024. At a later stage, decisions will be taken on how the implementing tender will be conducted - whether we will implement this investment in the design and construction mode, or whether there will be a tender for the project first and then a tender for the construction process. We assume that it will be at the turn of 2026 and 2027 and that it will be carried out in the course of the implementation of the Government's national road construction programme, the time horizon of which is set by 2030. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We want this investment to be completed as soon as possible. We are aware of the need to expand the A4 motorway and with great consistency and determination we will carry out this task. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u89	Thank you very much. The additional question is asked by Mrs Barbara Bartus.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u90	Thank you very much, Minister, for the hope that comes from your words. To be honest, there is one conclusion - it is simply the Law and Justice that must be ruled by the next two terms, so that it is not the same as the plans drawn up during the 2005-2007 term, when the plans were prepared, they had roads, highways to be built, and they came to the government of PSL and the Civic Platform and, speaking of acceleration, eliminated many tasks that were already, you can say, completely prepared. On the other hand, it is a little sad to see from our side that we have to wait so long, but it is probably not possible to jump these procedures differently. I would also like to ask the Minister about the 453 km that will be done, because this whole A4 will be concerned. If we're talking about the third lane, there are places where the third lane is. Will the fourth be done in these places, or will the third lane stay there? Because, as the Minister said, in 2040 there will be 90,000 in this episode, at least at the Balice. vehicles, so this highway is really what we need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u91	Thank you very much. Once again, Minister Rafał Weber answers. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u92	Thank you very much. Mrs. Member! Full agreement as to what might be, do not give, Lord God, if the Law and Justice were not responsible for the situation in our country. Referring to the A4 motorway, I would like to mention that, according to the assumptions of our predecessors, this road was to be built on Euro 2012, which took place between us and Ukraine. After all, it was supposed to combine Poland and Ukraine, the arenas in which the European Championships were held. On the other hand, when it came to implementation, the A4 motorway was not built entirely even for the 2016 European Championship in France. We had to finish Highway A4. The last sections of the chain were opened in August or September 2016. So don't, Lord God, let those who were responsible for infrastructure investments return. That's one thing. Secondly, the A4 motorway will be expanded between Tarnow and the Króstow junction in the Lower Silesian Voivodeship. It's the 453 kilometers. Where there are two lanes at the moment, it will be extended by one lane, i.e. it will function by three lanes, while where there are three lanes, it will also be extended by another belt. As I said, nodes will also be expanded so that they can operate more vehicles in a safe way, above all. Comfort and comfort are one thing, but above all safety - this is the focus of our attention. As regards the implementation schedule, I know that everyone expects the Ministry of Infrastructure to conduct our investments well and quickly. Of course, we are doing everything we can to make this happen, but we are not the only resort involved in the investment process. Really much depends on the rate at which environmental decisions are issued primarily, because this is something that takes us the most time, this is something that we focus mainly on. Of course, the quality of documentation, the quality of all environmental studies that are being carried out, is also important, but the issue of obtaining an environmental decision, which should not only be final but also valid, takes the most time. So that we are counting on those who want to help us in this investment process. If they fall in the bosom of the High House or in the bosom of the Parliament's committees, legislative proposals that will reduce the time of the investment process, we are very open to them as the Ministry of Infrastructure. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u93	Thank you very much. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 min. 05 hrs. 11 min 11]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at the present meeting of the Sejm information on the first edition of the pilot Strategic Investment Programme within the framework of the Government Fund of Poland Ład will be discussed, which is proposed by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Mrs Barbara Bartus.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u94	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, The Strategic Investment Programme is a non-refundable grant for public investments carried out by municipalities, powiats, cities and voivodships throughout Poland. It is a program that is built around the main assumptions of the Polish Order. The Fund is an impetus for the economy that has suffered from the crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. What is very important is that the programme is part of a sustainable development model. It is intended to equalise the development opportunities of individual individuals or regions that have not yet progressed at the same pace. The programme covers 35 areas of the economy. In the first recruitment, priorities were among others. investments in water and sewage infrastructure, modernisation of zero-emission heat sources, waste management, social investment, i.e. kindergartens, kindergartens or bike paths. Thanks to the Polish Government Fund, we have a chance to change the face of our cities, villages, municipalities, powiats or voivodships. Regardless of the various problems that arise, we are able to build funding that gives us the prospect of development. We know how important the development of our small homelands is, which is why Polish Load gives governments a huge boost to investment. That's where more financial support was put in place. We want the inhabitants of our cities and villages not to have to wait years for the realization of basic investments. Through the Government Fund of Poland Loads: The Strategic Investment Programme will improve the comfort of life of all Poles. Today Poland, using budgetary resources and sound public finances, shows what real economic development is, which serves all Poles. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki announced the results of the first edition of the pilot programme of strategic investments of the Polish government. With the help of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego we support sustainable development and new investments in roads, public transport, sewerage, schools or field, as I have already mentioned. More than 2780 municipalities, powiats, cities, towns and towns receive funding. Most of the funds were allocated to road infrastructure, because it is as much as PLN 11 300 million, water and sewage - PLN 4800 million, sports - PLN 1.5 billion, tourist - PLN 1400 million, educational - PLN 1100 million. Government Fund Polski Ład: The Strategic Investment Programme is the only comprehensive investment support programme of local governments in history. Within it, non-refundable funding across Poland received more than 97% local governments. However, it follows that around 3% local authorities did not receive, e.g. in my district of New Sądecki received 58 municipalities, five counties, but two municipalities did not receive. That is why we are asking the Minister why these around 3% the local government did not receive any funding. Do those self-governments that have not received have a chance to obtain them in the next recruitment? Or will these local governments be given priority in the next recruitment so that they can also benefit from what the Polish Load proposes? Can these local authorities, which may have had a problem with the creation of a proper proposal, count on some substantive support in the preparation of proposals in the next call? This programme, Minister, has been called a pilot, so will there be the same rules in the next call, or will it be so with regard to investments that one in 5 million PLN, one in 30 million PLN and one without restrictions, or will there be any changes in this programme? Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki also announced additional support for the Popegeer communes. So I also have a question that flows from my local governments, which have already benefited from the funding from this program for the Polish municipalities. Unfortunately, it was not as big a means as we say now, because it was several hundred thousand, but I have a question: Will this program continue, or will it somehow be modified? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u95	Thank you very much. Now please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr Paweł Chiefnernaker. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u96	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin this speech by thanking practically all local authorities in Poland, for wójtów, Mayors, Starostów, Marshals of voivodships, who took part in this first pilot recruitment as part of the strategic investment fund of Poland Ład. The involvement of local governments shows, ladies and gentlemen, how the government and local government, realizing a certain concept of government resulting from the program of Polish Loads, can jointly implement investments for residents of municipalities, powiats throughout Poland. In fact, only a few local governments across Poland have not submitted an application for more than 2,800 units, i.e. practically 99.9% Local authorities have submitted these requests. Ladies and gentlemen! In total, the local governments contributed more than 8,000. applications for PLN 93 billion. In the first recruitment, the government announced that the funds it will transfer to local governments will amount to PLN 20 billion. During the examination of these proposals, a rule had to be adopted that would allow as many applications to be settled. During the process, the Prime Minister decided that in order to be as many proposals as possible, the total amount of funding in the first recruitment was increased to PLN 23.9 billion, close to PLN 24 billion. Ladies and gentlemen! Working on these proposals, we sought to ensure that as many of these proposals were resolved. The funding was finally received 4040 applications and, ladies and gentlemen, we have examined within the scope of the possibilities that each municipality has created. Each municipality, each county, each local government unit had the opportunity to submit three applications: one application without a limit of the amount, one application up to 30 million and one application up to 5 million PLN. Ladies and gentlemen! In the end, 97% of funding was received. local governments. That's three local governments that didn't get... Due to the fact that we would like to ensure that in the subsequent Polish elections the Load goes to 100% Local authorities, we will strive to ensure that in subsequent recruitments those local governments, which have not received the funds from the first recruitment, of course, receive these funds. The majority - in addition to those local authorities that did not submit applications - of local authorities that did not receive applications in the first recruitment - are local authorities that submitted applications either without a limit of the amount, or for very large amounts, i.e. up to PLN 30 million, which unfortunately exceeded the possibilities of this recruitment. Unfortunately, these local authorities did not apply for smaller amounts, although they had the possibility. Ladies and gentlemen! We urge everyone, also Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, together with the voivodships, to organize meetings with local governments in all voivodships in Poland in order to provide information, conclusions from the first recruitment, so that everyone can prepare for further recruitments as best as possible. The first proposal resulting from the first selection is that we are now going to make it mandatory to apply for a higher amount, so that a lower amount can be applied for. This will allow all local authorities to receive funds in subsequent recruitments, i.e. so that in the case of those who did not receive, it could be compensated somehow. Ladies and gentlemen! Amount of co-financing granted broken down by main investment. The first priority was awarded to PLN 17 billion. These 17 billion PLN, which have been transferred to municipalities, are resources for road and water and sewage infrastructure. Among these largest municipalities, but also the small ones This is clearly the most important investment problem, the greatest need, where there are no external resources from other programmes, so that the municipality or district is the beneficiary of external funds and can invest. For this reason, the most, because just about PLN 17 billion, is spent on road infrastructure, water and sewage infrastructure. The sport infrastructure was transferred to PLN 1.5 billion, to the tourist infrastructure 1400 million, to the educational infrastructure of PLN 1100 million. Ladies and gentlemen! There was a question here about more calls. The Prime Minister announced another recruitment under the strategic investment fund. This call will take place this year. This year it will be a special component of the programme dedicated to municipalities for investments carried out in localities where national agricultural enterprises operated. Therefore, these recruitments will continue this year. In the coming weeks they will be informed to the public as soon as the decisions, in the form of a resolution of the Council of Ministers, concerning these recruitments are taken. Ladies and gentlemen! Today I also received a letter from the Association of Polish Cities, where several cases were identified in the country... The local authorities, part of the city, believe that they did not receive funds in a proportionate way. I am very pleased about this - also during the joint government and local government committee meeting - that more than 90% of local governments are satisfied with this hand. Unfortunately, there was no way to please 100%. local governments in terms of investment. We did everything we could to cover as many local governments as possible so that as many investments could be carried out by small and medium-sized Polish enterprises. That's why there are a lot of smaller investments. Tenders will not be so large as to allow Polish, native and very often district entrepreneurs to invest this type of investment, to make smaller investments. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that in public space there are several or several people saying that they could have received more and received less shows only... On a scale of 2,800 local governments, this is a radius. We're gonna want to talk to these vagrants in our next rounds. Yesterday I even talked to the mayor of Land-Zdroj, who asked me what these results were from, not the other results. We're trying to talk to everyone. Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego is also open to talking to local governments. We are pleased that the vast majority, more than 90%, of local governments see great hope in improving the lives of the inhabitants, making the most important investments for these local governments, precisely in this hand of Polish Łódź. We're getting ready for the next hand. I am very pleased that there is a programme that allows investments that have not been in place over the years, because it is simply that local authorities lack the resources for them. I would also like to thank the staff of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, who worked with us. It was not an easy task. It's more than 8,000 opinions. conclusions. I would like to thank the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers at the hands of Minister Izabela Antos here. Ladies and gentlemen! We remain at your disposal, at the disposal of parliamentarians and local authorities. The idea is to cooperate together in subsequent recruitments and together to be able to implement this program important for the government and for local governments in Poland, a program that has never existed before. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u97	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the floor? You're welcome. After you, I close the list of speakers. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice will be the first to speak. [[Time, Marshal, what?]] Two minutes. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal, one minute so we can all fit in.]] [[Voices from the O.R.: 2 minutes!]] [[Voice from the room: We'll all fit in anyway.]] Good, because we have... [[Voice from the room: We'll make it.]] [[Voice from the room: 1 minute!]] [[There's a long list, Marshal. One minute, please.]] There's a long list. You will therefore reduce the number of speeches if you... [[Voice from the room: 1 minute please.]] [[They want 1 minute.]] [[Voice from the room: 1 minute please.]] [[Voice from the room: But two minutes was...]] There's a split vote. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: We are wasting time for discussions.]] Let's say a minute and a half. Please, Mrs Borowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u98	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Over PLN 1250 million non-refundable funding from the Polish Government Fund for the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, including over PLN 737 million for 140 investments that will change the face of my region, are 140 examples of real support from the Government of Law and Justice for local governments and for residents. I will mention only a few of these investments: Multigenerational Centre for Family Activity in Baruchów - 9 million PLN, socio-cultural centre in Kowal - 5 million PLN, cultural house in the municipality of Ryńsk - 11 million PLN, extension of music school with concert hall in the district of Lipnowska - more than 10 million PLN, modern sports complexes at schools in the municipality of Bytoń - 8 million PLN and in the municipality of Lipno - 9 million PLN, finally concern about improving the quality of life of seniors, expansion and modernisation of social assistance houses, Soviet district - about 14.5 million PLN, Wąbrzeski district - 6700 thousand PLN. zł. These are investments that will forever change the image of our municipalities, cities, towns and districts. They're concrete, not empty promises. Minister! Question: "When can local governments start implementing investments for which they received non-refundable funding from the Polish Government Fund Loads: Strategic Investment Program?" Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u99	Mr Marek Owa, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u100	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The state budget is the document in which you should look for information about development programmes, but there is nothing in this budget. [[Voice from the room: That's what I thought.]] We will find nearly 40 billion less resources for local governments. This is the result of a reduction in subsidies and income tax impact of PLN 12 million. [[Voice from the room: That's what I thought.]] No wonder that today, in the face of the diplomatic disaster in Brussels and the blockade of funds from the National Plan for Reconstruction, for which you have full responsibility... You're saving the situation by re-launching extra-budget bond funds, indebting us to another tens of billions of zlotys. And I will immediately mark this money, quoting the classics, the self-governments simply belong. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] Anyway, this is your order. It's only 10%. The National Plan for Reconstruction, and the local government was supposed to go to 30%. But it doesn't change the fact that you're only giving away part of what you're taking. It's a PiS justice thing. And I would also like to ask you personally, perhaps the most Mrs Bartus, who has decided to reduce the funding for the city of Nowe Sącz. They were supposed to have 27 million zlotys on Sunday. Eventually, it's 4.5. Tell me which of the Members of the Court of Justice has sought less money for the New Saxon. [[Voice from the room: How do you know?]] We want to know that name. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: But how do you know? This is a misunderstanding.]] Mrs Bartus has all the information (The Bell) in this regard. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u102	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The programme of strategic investments aims to transform Poland poor into Poland rich, but there is only a question in which regions. Under this great PiS programme, Bydgoszcz is to receive only PLN 35 million for investments, i.e. 100 PLN per inhabitant. Unfortunately, it is even worse in Inowroclaw because they are to receive 69 PLN per capita and a total of 5 million PLN. And in previous government support programs, Inowroclaw did not receive any money for any of the applications submitted. Therefore, I have a question: What are the official reasons for such a government policy that the inhabitants of Bydgoszcz, Inowroclaw, do not deserve this money? What are the comprehensive explanations for challenging these requests? The residents expect correction by the government in the decisions taken to grant these measures. However, I have a question: Where is the money included in the state budget for the distribution of these funds? Where's the money? [[Voice from the hall: What handing out? What kind of deal?]] How many Poles will have to pay back the money you owe the country for at this moment? I ask you very kindly to answer in writing when the budget will have to return this money. [[Voice from the room: We didn't eat.]] Will there be a second competition and will you make up for these activities, in which at least such Inowroclaw has 69 PLN (The Bell) per capita? Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland. You're welcome. Minister, I expect an answer in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u103	There's no envoy? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] In that case, Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u104	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Minister! This Polish Ład is really a lack of order and composition, and above all, a lack of responsibility for state finances and lack of responsibility for local government finances. Local governments will lose around 10 billion a year on your tax changes. On the page at your expense. pl, because it is at the expense of all of us, Polish authorities concluded that in the next 10 years almost PLN 150 billion will be lost on tax changes. It's even worse when we analyze individual cases. Dąbrowa Górnicza in your Excel sheet received 20 million for the road, but next year she will lose 48 million revenue to the budget. [[Voice from the room: He won't lose.]] The city of Tychy, my hometown, has received 47 million dollars to build two overpasses, which we have been asking for for many, many years. But next year, we're gonna lose 52 million in revenue to the budget. [[A voice from the room: No!]] [[Voice from the room: He won't lose.]] The Minister says he won't. I know, you're designing so-called. compensation, but this compensation is only half of the appropriations that would normally contribute to the budget. The Fisherman will receive nothing, and he will lose 31 million PLN. These measures are out of debt, they are out of the budget, they are out of the spending rule. These measures (The Bell) per year amount to PLN 23 billion. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u105	Thank you, sir. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u106	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Strategic Investment Programme shows, ladies and gentlemen, that the Government of Law and Justice has and is implementing a programme for which it has agreed with Poles. The sustainable development of our homeland, and not, as the total opposition wanted and implemented, diffusion, shows that funds do not go according to the number of inhabitants, because it is diffusion, but they go to local governments. An example of this, ladies and gentlemen, is... [[The voice from the room:...it's not even. I propose a definition of reading.]] ...circle number 28, of which I have the honor of being an envoy. In the entire district, i.e. 5 counties, 344 million went to local governments. The county of Częstochowski - 16 municipalities, all of which received a total of 130 million municipalities. Kłobucki County - 77 million. What are they meant for? Well, what they didn't get when you ran the road infrastructure, the sports infrastructure, the kindergarten construction, the sewerage, the sports base. Dear Minister, I have a question: What are the first conclusions of the government's pilot Polish strategic programme? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[How many kindergartens were created?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Protas, Civic Coalition. [[Voice from the room: What's his name...]] [[Strategic Investment Programme. A lady who doesn't understand me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u108	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Each zloty intended for investment in local government is particularly valuable, because local governments have been generating 3/4 of public investment in Poland for years and are watching exactly every zloty. You've been robbing and robbing government budgets for years, that you can barely, you can say, zip off, so it's a good thing you finally decided to give up some of that money. [[Voice from the room: But they receive...]] [[How can you?]] However, my doubts and at the same time my questions to the Minister are as follows. Why are you releasing bonds worth PLN 24 billion? You're predicting it's going to be an even higher amount. Why do you owe the state budget for the next generation when it is enough to complete only the National Reconstruction Plan, from which we can get 110 billion zlotys of non-refundable subsidies? That's one thing. Why are you only giving promenades to local governments? So the government will have to put their money on the entire investment, and then maybe the money will be returned. [[Applause]] Imagine a municipality that has a budget of 30 million and receives investment funds - 8 million. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What's he gonna take the money out of, what's he gonna take the $8 million out of to invest and just wait for it to come back? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: He didn't read the rules.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u110	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are talking about the Strategic Investment Programme, in particular about the first edition of local government units. In the Chamber, it was said that the choice was made because of the preferred investments for small, local, local companies that can make these investments locally. Minister! I ask you, sir, to inform me whether and when there will be a second edition. When will the funds from the first edition go to local government units and where exactly will the source of funding for these investments be drawn from? Please respond in writing on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u111	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u112	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The tax changes that the Government of Law and Justice has introduced in recent years are the most losing of local governments, which are not today the main administrative centres in Poland, the voivodship cities, but are, as a rule, cities that have lost their status as a voivodship city after the 1998 reform. Such a city is e.g. White and white. There seems to be measures such as those of the Strategic Investment Programme among the various possible means of support in order to keep these cities from losing their potential. Meanwhile, it turns out that if we look at the Silesian Voivodeship, the city of Bielsko-Biała, as far as the amount of funding is concerned, is only at the very end, located in fourth place from the end. These cities, which still have a lot of resources, such as: Katowice, the capital of the region, because they are administrative centers and business centers, receives even more support. Minister! What decided that cities such as Bielsko-Biała, who lost their status as voivodship, who today need this support, did not receive this support? It's against what you're saying, which is against supporting smaller centers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What were the criteria that caused cities like Bielsko-Biała to be treated so badly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u114	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! All the local governments have gained. There's some kind of critical propaganda in relation to the Polish Ład. [[Ha, ha, ha!]] Polish Load together with the Strategic Investment Programme are a response to the needs of Poles, as well as local governments and local governments. It is, as I have emphasized many times, the biggest such programme in the history of free and democratic Poland. The Government of Law and Justice is the only one who cares about the fate of the inhabitants of Polish villages, towns and powiats, and it is not, as it was before, about diffusion and polarization development, taking care only of large agglomeration centers. Thanking for PLN 2 billion of support for the Śląskie voivodship, I would like to ask you to indicate the biggest investments in the Śląskie voivodship, including Sosnowiec, Dąbrowa Górnicza, Jaworzna, Będzin, Zawiercie. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the total amount of funding at national level is PLN 23 billion. Local governments applied for PLN 90 billion. [[Nine billion.]] I would like to ask you about the Strategic Investment Programme, the next editions. Are these planned? If so, when? Will they be implemented through investment promotions of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego and also in a system of up to three applications, as in the first edition? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u115	Thank you, sir. Mrs Izabela Leszczyna, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u116	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! PiS first robbed local governments like PCK containers [[Applause]] - in addition, he called this activity Polish Ład - and then a few days ago he announced that local governments were giving something. And all you had to do was not take it. Prime Minister Morawiecki cheats when he says it is the largest investment project in local governments. The largest investments in local authorities were financed by EU funds and can continue to be financed. There's only one condition. The PiS government is not to declare the Third World War of the European Union, but to execute the judgment of the TSUE. [[Applause]] Money streams will flow to Polish local governments, much bigger and not from debt, because these cardboard cheques you are giving out, these are bonds, this is debt, and this will charge the budget in 10 years. [[Voice in the room:...not selling.]] The PiS is giving away, and the next governments and generations will be paying off. That money you're giving away outside the Sejm's control. Economists say it's a pato budget, that this is Moravian spending paradise. [[Voice from the room: Economicists? What economists? Who, exactly?]] Because although there is a Commission, then - attention - the rules which they themselves have created allow Prime Minister Morawiecki to give up the Commission's verdict and even put his projects there. So it's like Ziobra's fund, only one gives away millions, the other gives away billions. This is finally the liquidation of self-government autonomy. Does this mean that the Prime Minister will decide which street, what school in which municipality to renovate? Are you guys crazy? [[Please? What prime minister? Yeah, I think it's you.]] He'll even decide which street. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The councilmen won't be needed either, because the one-man uncle will decide who to ask and who to thank beautifully. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. You're... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...a corrupt government.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u117	Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. Madame, no one can hear you anymore. [[Madam President, time is up for the Platform, too.]] [[Voice from the room: Not nice.]] [[Voice from the hall: Your time is up...]] [[Our time is yet to come.]] [[Voice from the room: But it was already there.]] [[And he won't come back again.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u118	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, Any State support in the implementation of local government investments is important. We can argue over the control of spending these funds, debt-taking for the future, but from the point of view of local communities these measures are important and important in the context of development. You told the Minister that in the second area 1.5 billion PLN will be allocated to the construction and modernisation of sports facilities. The environmental programme of the former PGRs, which you informed at the meeting of the Sports Committee, included expenditure on these sites. I wanted to ask you whether this programme will continue and whether there will also be resources for equal access to sports, tourist, recreational infrastructure, but also access to the village hall or the guards. The second question nevertheless concerns unequal treatment in this edition of some local governments. The city of Gniezno received PLN 4.7 million, just like Inowroclaw - about PLN 5 million, and according to the local government, it will lose PLN 18.5 million in the tax policy of the government. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm... Thank you, sir. [[We're sticking to time because we want everyone to make it.]] The question is if there's a chance of evening out the next tranche. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u119	Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland. Mr. President, you didn't want two minutes, so limit yourselves to... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: We wanted to.]] [[We wanted a minute.]] Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u120	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Self-governments act on behalf of the inhabitants, for their residents, for all residents, therefore the support of local governments, the support of the inhabitants must be fair. Hence my great surprise that in the Świętokrzyskie region two counties, Sandomierz and Buski, did not receive any zloty. I do not know the reason for this - experienced and long-term starosts, good local governments. A similar situation is in the case of Busko-Zdrój, where a number of investments have been made under treatment at the expense of the residents. It was thought that now something would be done for the residents. The Busko-Zdrój didn't receive any gold either. Is this mistake, I hope, an oversight will be repaired in the near future, with subsequent divisions to just... Because we know that such situations cause great dissatisfaction among the inhabitants. Let us remember that these criteria must be transparent, they must be objective, they must not be discretionary. We know it's just right... And the land of Sandomierz, and the land of Busca, and Busko-Zdrój are the pearls of the land of sanctimonious crucifixion, which bear a number, you can say, certain services (the bell)... Thank you very much. ...some goods not only for their inhabitants, but also for the whole of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Please don't prolong.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u121	Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice. Mr Marek Polak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u122	I'm here, I'm here. Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I received with great satisfaction information about the results of recruitment to the Polish Government Fund Loads: Strategic Investment Programme, because it is a great opportunity for sustainable development of all regions of Poland - it is 2785 towns, powiats and municipalities, to which more than PLN 23 billion will be available for funding more than PLN 4,000. investments, especially local investments, which we use daily and which directly affect the quality and comfort of our lives. It is the construction and extension of schools, nursery schools, kindergartens, as well as sports facilities, health clinics, recreational areas and it are numerous road investments. In turn local entrepreneurs, when implementing these investments, can develop their companies, create new jobs and thus contribute to the development of almost every municipality in Poland, i.e. places where we live, live and deliver our daily life needs. In short, the Government Fund of Poland Load is the only programme for decades to match our dreams, needs and social expectations, for which I would like to thank you very warmly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u123	Thank you very much. Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u124	Well, that's the way it's gonna be: with one hand, the government takes and forces the government to cut, spend, and the other with no criteria and rules, it only separates some of the money it had previously taken. Despite the fact that the government does not have any money, only those derived from taxes of Poles, it launched a government propaganda machine in municipalities, cities and powiats. The second and third stages in the case of the Local Investment Fund showed the distribution of public money, which the government treated as political loot and distributed without mode, disregarding the inhabitants of those places where not a single gold had arrived. I thought that after our checks, we made it public and reported it to the control organs of this pathology when we handed out the so-called debt cheques. You're gonna get better with the Polish Deal. But no, because justice in your way in compensating for the losses of local governments still shows huge disparities. You created a grant gap between local governments, because how do you explain that the funds which so far came from the FIL or the Polish Łódź to the town of Świdnica, which received PLN 307 per capita, Minister - PLN 259 per capita received in Świebodzice - they went to municipalities in the same district where the grants reached 2 or 3 thousand. per capita. How do you explain to the people of Land-Zdroj, which you mentioned today, the issue of zero subsidies under all subsidies? Local governments say clearly: decentralisation is progressing, government is destroying self-government, government is incapacitating local governments, public money the government is giving away without criteria. We didn't need to be taken away, and now we need to pretend you're giving us something. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Compensation is too small, and on the Polish Łódź we lose - this is what local governments say. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Wiesław Buj, Club Left. Are you an MP?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u126	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the question or request whether the government should not, by its own inspiration, take stock of these areas and provide them with transformative support. We talked about the programme for municipalities and areas of popegeer, but I would like to draw your attention, and the High House, and the government, to the fact that agricultural production cooperatives were operating in many municipalities in Poland. In some places they still work, because it is a living organism, but at that time they were destroyed for various economic reasons, while left undeveloped areas, destroyed buildings, buildings, roads. I believe that these municipalities should also be assisted by the government, as should all the popegeer communities. I would like the government to pay attention to this because there are a lot of these cases in the country. I believe that an inventory should be made of these areas and that support should be given to the counties and municipalities in which they were located. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u127	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Duda, Law and Justice. You don't have an MP? [[Here he comes. Here he comes. Here he comes.]] There it is. I didn't see it. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u128	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This is the message Małopolska was waiting for, the inhabitants of cities, villages and villages were waiting for this message. [[Applause]] Never in recent decades has there been so much non-refundable government support for important and key investments. Polish Ład is more than PLN 160 million for local governments of the Lesser Poland voivodship, a record amount for the royal city of Krakow. With the support of PLN 99 million in Krakow, the music centre will finally be established with the original concert hall from the real event. The dynamically growing district of Krakowski will receive a total of over PLN 343 million. But also Miechów, the district of Olkuski, the district of Miechowski will receive funds, which will be translated, among others. for the modernization of pavements, roads in Chernichów, Kocmyrzów, Luborzycy, Igołomi, Sułoszowa, Ivanowice, Gołczy, Kozłów, Trzycząż, Duke Wielki and Słaboszów. Thanks to the government grant, the market in Słomniki and the market in Mogilany will eventually be rebuilt. Poland is beautiful. The treatment plant in Wola Kalinowska will be modernised or the Sewerage will be built in the small Stoki Council (Dzwonek) in the municipality of Skala. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank you from this place on behalf of the local government of the Lesser Poland Voivodeship... Thank you, Member. ...for the government's excellent cooperation with local governments. [[Applause]] [[Long live! Long live!]] And this is just the beginning. Thank you very much, Member. You could say we're turning dreams into reality.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u129	Thank you. Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! I have no doubt that the municipalities that have been looted for six years deserve to get every dollar, especially since they can make investments unlike you, because you're not doing anything. But you're running a policy under the slogan, after us, even a flood. You treat money from debt as much as the money you could get if it weren't for Ziobro, the National Recovery Plan and the European funds. [[We'll get both.]] Someday someone will pay, but now they pay for it from their pockets each Pole, because the latest data speaks about the cost: 6,8% according to CBOS. What does that mean? Your policy is the policy of spending money you don't have. [[Scandal!]] Your policy is the policy of debt to future generations. Your policy is a policy which assumes that we will buy the favour of local governments in such a way that at the moment we will borrow money to distribute. And we could have money from the European Union if it weren't for Ziobro. We pay for your inability, we pay for your unspeakability, and we pay for your strong sense of impunity. And it would suffice to liquidate the Disciplinary Chamber and several dozens of billions of euros would go to Poland. However, you prefer to indebt Poland, you prefer to do pirate politics: after us even the flood. [[Applause]] [[But you can always leave.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u131	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u132	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Memory, especially the opposition, when it was power, is fleeting. Let me remind you that according to the article. 121 The Public Finance Act of 27 August 2009, which entered into force on 1 January 2014, introduced the calculation of the individual debt ratio. These rules have led municipalities to have no source of resources for their own contribution to EU programmes from day to day. So what if there were EU programmes when there was no money to invest. [[Applause]] [[...you're stealing.]] That was the truth, 60%. You made it impossible to get money from EU programs overnight. [[Voice from the hall: Bullshit tells.]] I was a self-government officer from 2010 to 2017 and only in 2018 could I build a gym in Zelów thanks to the help of Law and Justice. [[Applause]] All these years, there's no way to make a contribution. To conclude, I would like to thank you very much for 110 million for the Piotrkowski district. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u133	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u134	Ladies and gentlemen of the PiS! You have a short memory. But now we're talking about the current state of affairs. [[Oh, we have a memory, we have a memory, Madam Member.]] Current situation - inflation at 6,8%. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] The inflation, the cost plus. 6 years of government and the lowest investment rate, it is public investment. [[Applause]] You were six years old. The increase in hospital debt, the judgment of the Constitutional Court, the largest debt, for the amount of PLN 16.5 billion... [[Voice from the hall: They are happy.]] ...and this is an increase of 6.5 billion PLN. What are you telling the local government to do? You're making them pay for the debts of hospitals. You're not executing the Constitutional Court's judgment. [[But this is the Platform Act.]] You took money from local governments in the Polish Lad. [[Applause]] So? You're looking for an alibi like a thief. Don't yell. Because you didn't give any money to some local governments from the Local Investment Fund. Friends from the club showed up from that stand where you didn't give it, where the hand was. [[Where?]] You are looking for an alibi for the Government Local Investment Fund, because you took money from local governments in the Polish Lad. [[Voice from the Chamber: Madam, pity.]] The balance of this consideration 6 years for local governments is less than zero. [[Science fiction.]] Less than zero. And the current state is state cardboard and propaganda+. [[There's money going for it.]] Question to the Minister: Why didn't the municipality of Przecław (Dzwonek) receive money in the district of Mielec? Thank you. First of all, where... [[Time's up, Marshal.]] ...and who had the authority to give away [[The bell, the applause.]] Paper? These are cardboard, not any money. Self-governments don't know how they're going to implement the projects. Thank you very much. Mr Czesław Hoc, Law and Justice. That's less than zero of yours. [[Applause]] [[Don't lie to me!]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u135	Member, please don't yell. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u136	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! What can we say about the first edition of the Polish Government Fund? He has produced genuine joy in more than 90% and even 100% Local government officials in Poland, in many, even tears of happiness. [[Applause]] All that remains is to articulate one beautiful word: thank you. [[Voice from the hall: Don't get married.]] So I would like to thank Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, one of the main creators of this generation's work, and Minister Paweł Chezernaker, President of the Committee on Government Affairs of the Fund, Poland's Łads, every day a Member of our beautiful Koszalin-Korbrzeg land. I have separate words of thanks for the management of the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego headed by the president of Beata Daszyńska-Musiczka. Thank you Kołobrzeg and all the municipalities of the kolębrzeski district. Thank you Koszalin and the communes of Koszalin County. Thank you Szczecinek and the communes of Szczecin County. Thank you to the city of Sławno and the district of Sławno. Thanks to the municipality Darłowo etc., etc., etc. [[Voice from the room: Thank you.]] Prime Minister! Minister! Madam President! It's a bull's-eye, generational enterprise. [[It's a generational debt.]] Excellent period of sustainable development of small homelands, regions of Poland. Soon, ladies and gentlemen, no municipality in Poland will operate far from the road. Until a few years ago, the Minister of Finance of the Civic Platform and PSL government claimed that there was no money and there wouldn't be. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Turns out the money is and will be. Let the good things continue. [[Voice from the room: Printed.]] Minister! At a meeting in Walcz, local government officials found that appetite grows as food grows. So I have a question about when there will be next editions and whether there will be preferences for those self-government people who have not received this. I am asking for the district of Drawski and the municipality of Wierzchowo. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u137	Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u138	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Government strategic investment fund. Four words and every lie. It's not a fund, it's not a government, it's a debt outside the budget and social control, which will be paid by citizens, but when the PiS doesn't rule anymore. The only strategy is to get the PiS voters and deceive them with the alleged concern for local communities. In fact, PiS hates local governments and systematically dismantles modern regional policy, which is based on the subjectivity of local governments and the principle of subsidiarity. It creates a feudal mechanism in this place, in which local governments go to the lord and the ruler, and the one in his favor, because of the local courtlords, [[Applause]] he gives them ceremonially cardboard cheques, and then there are equally solemn thanks for the efforts of the local hungover. As a result, we have a vassal system in which everything, even the cleaning of the roadside ditch or grass on the field, depends on your eye of power on Novgorodska. This is what PiS has toward the people who are dark and will buy not only dull propaganda, but also cardboard promises, and with their own money. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u139	A dark people? Madam, I beg you, do not insult the Polish citizens. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u140	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The information that reached us all on Monday morning, surprised and made the local government very happy. 92 million PLN went to the district of Wieruszowski - 60 million PLN, Paczyczański - over 71 million PLN. [[And how much did you take before that?]] To the district of Zduńskowolski, in which the Civic Platform is governed - PLN 55 million. However, there is an example of one municipality in Łódź, which unfortunately did not take advantage of the possibility of obtaining these funds. This is my family town of Wieluń, a town-rural community of 32 thousand. residents whose mayor did not avail himself of the possibility to submit three applications. The two applications, which he submitted, for the amount of PLN 28 million and PLN 41 million, were not accepted by the committee due to an excessive amount. Today, the mayor blames, among others. MPs and the government didn't get the money. Minister! I have questions. Why didn't the municipality of Wieluń receive funds? Is it because too much money has been requested? Have municipalities of similar size received such amounts? I have submitted an interpellation, Minister, so as not to put the government or the parliamentarians against the wall by the local government, that all local governments must also make this smallest request (the bell). Today I hear from the Minister that you will also conduct another recruitment as I have requested. [[Voice from the room: End! Time!]] Thank you, sir. Minister! What can the municipality of Wieluń count on? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u141	Thank you, sir. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u142	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! About Wieluń will be heard often today, because it is the only municipality in the Łódź Voivodeship, which has been omitted. [[Oh, one commune for the whole voivodship.]] And there's Mayor Wielenia's statement. The Municipality of Wieluń has once again been omitted in the allocation of government funds, this time under the Government's Strategic Investment Programme. We are the only city in the Łódź voivodship that has not received grants from competitions previously announced by the government. It's a shame. It's also a disgrace to the government of law and justice. You are record-breakers when it comes to hypocrisy, you are record-breakers when it comes to inflation, you are record-breakers when it comes to borrowing the Republic of Poland. These debts will pay off the next generation. But let me remind you that the government of the Civic Platform has begun a great construction of the Republic, [[Applause]] The great construction of local governments, local governments, which you are robbing. The Orlik programme was the first programme prepared by the government - it is worth recalling - which local authorities could use to develop sports infrastructure. [[Voice from the hall: And who did you give it to?]] And the schetins are a program that allowed us to build 16,5,000. km of local roads... [[Voice from the room: 30% of the funding.]] ...of which 1 000. [[♪ The bell ♪]] on green ground. We spent over PLN 11 billion for this purpose. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Schetynówki - 30% of the funding. Laughter in the courtroom.]] [[60.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u143	Thank you, sir. Mrs Teresa Pamula, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u144	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Podkarpackie region received 1800 million PLN. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much to the Minister, thank you very much to the Government of the Republic of Poland, especially to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, that we can use these funds for roads, for kindergartens, for stadiums, for treatment plants, for waterworks, which are very needed in the Podkarpackie region. That is why so much money was allocated to the Podkarpackie Voivodship, because there are many years of negligence there. It's your negligence. You didn't care about the Bieszczady, you didn't care about the cities, you didn't care about the small towns. [[Voice from the room: 6 years.]] Thanks to these measures, a treatment plant can be modernised in my home town, and roads can be built in Bieszczady. The Podkarpackie Voivodeship received 100 million for roads and for motorway exits. I am very pleased that these measures were addressed to local governments. Self-governments will use them. Minister! Is there gonna be another roundup? However, not all municipalities in the Podkarpackie Voivodeship received this support. They need for treatment plants, for example. Municipality of Krasne, which needs almost PLN 26 million. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will such resources still be available? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u145	Thank you very much. Mr Czesław Mroczek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u146	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The restored local government in Poland contributed to the great economic success of Poland after 1989. The local government has implemented major infrastructure investments, major investments in social infrastructure. Today you are talking about the fact that cities, municipalities in Poland will carry out huge investments. This is a practice of life in Poland for 30 years. There have been attempts to limit the influence of local government, but no one has done it like you. You took the government's money and now you're returning it to them in part through the decision of the headquarters. Again we return to the PRL model, in which decisions on local matters, gymnasiums, as we heard here, roads, fall in Warsaw, centrally. It's back to the commune. [[Voice from the room: Who writes the conclusions?]] As I say, what you do has a dimension of self-destruction, but it also has a propaganda and electoral dimension. After all, this strategic investment fund is de In fact, the campaign propaganda fund of the PiS. If you split that money according to the algorithm, you wouldn't have to write any conclusions, you wouldn't need an army of government officials to grant that money. [[It's already been done.]] Self-government should (the bell) get that money according to the algorithm. Thank you very much, sir. Today you're going out and thanking me like you're a PRL. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Time!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u147	Mr Krzysztof July, Law and Justice. Mr July. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There isn't. Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u148	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today is a special day when we can open a new book of local investments," said Prime Minister Morawiecki last Monday. I continued: Government Fund Polski Ład: The Strategic Investment Programme of over 23 billion is the only and largest programme in the last 30 years in the free time of Poland. Prime Minister! Which is the biggest investment book you've opened in the last six years? Which book of fairy tales is it? Which one's the promise? [[The voice from the hall: Oh, my...]] I remind you that there was a Morawiecki plan, there were five Morawieckis for 100 days, then the Government Local Investment Fund. [[That's all we're doing.]] There's no $100,000. Apartments... [[Voice from the room: It's all done.]] ...there aren't 1 million electric cars... [[The voice of the hall: And the fourteenth shall be.]] ...there is no 25% investment in GDP, and the family+ programme has suffered a demographic failure. [[Voice from the room: What are you saying?]] On the other hand, local governments in which the PiS does not rule have been cut off from money again. An example is my town Bielsko-Biała. Who are you kidding this time, Prime Minister? I began with a quote from the Prime Minister and inspired by the book Pinocchio. For those who may yet believe in promises - it is said there: "Do not listen to those who promise that you will become rich day by day, my boy. They're usually fools or crooks! [[Applause]] [[The voice from the room: Or the PiS.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u149	Mrs Ewa Malik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u150	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In this recruitment almost PLN 24 billion were allocated for investments. I am curious to ask: What amount will Prime Minister Morawiecki allocate in the next call for such numerous, wonderful investments? I would also like to ask how this program will be modified in the next call, because it is said... [[Voice from the room: It will be.]] ...that the program will be adapted to the needs of the municipalities, so this is also an interesting thing for me. But, to be honest, I am acting on behalf of the residents of the municipalities and cities located in my constituency. Large cities on the rights of the county, Sosnowiec, Dąbrowa Górnicza, Jaworzno, thank us beautifully for the very large resources obtained. Also, the two earthly districts, the Bydziński and the Zawiercieanski districts, were very happy to welcome the opening up to them of all these possibilities of additional investment in favour of the needs that they put in their conclusions, because it is not at all the same as here the Member of the Civic Coalition said that we admit money that the government grants money, but in fact grants it as if without the knowledge of the municipalities. No, it's not. City dwellers (Bell) and municipalities and Łódź are well aware of the needs of the local community and have just clarified this in their conclusions. Thank you, Member. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. On behalf of the residents, I would like to thank the Prime Minister very much. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The government takes it first and then gives it a little less. That's what it looks like.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u151	Thank you. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u152	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Your Strategic Investment Programme as part of the so-called "Strategic Investment Programme." Polish disorder is nothing but propaganda and the height of manipulation. Rules for examining local authorities' applications are largely copied procedures that were in force in the Local Investment Fund. You copied it. They are still not transparent and allow to spend a large part of the money according to the party key. This is clearly seen in the example of my region. The city of Bielsko-Biała, which according to the tool calculating the costs of the Polish Order created by the Union of Polish Cities and the Union of Polish Metropolis will lose 86 million a year, will receive only PLN 25 million for the renovation of the bathing area Panorama. [[Voice from the room: Just.]] That's the relationship. Meanwhile, there are municipalities ruled by people associated with the power or sympathetic to the power, which received funding for all the projects notified. Without exception, for all those that have been reported. This example shows that you are again trying to distribute money in accordance with the principle of "your + '. [[What do you mean, yours?]] Thanks to the debt of Poles for PLN 24 billion in bonds you want to compensate local governments for the loss of PLN 150 billion due to lost income, but as usual you are doing it badly. When will you finally adopt a new law on the income of local government units? The inflation's almost 7%... Thank you. ...petrol soon 7% , galloping expensive. What are you guys Thank you very much, Member. Don't you see? You really can't see that? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u153	Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Law and Justice. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u154	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The first edition of the pilot Strategic Investment Programme under the Government Fund of Poland Load behind us. The funds obtained are valuable support for the actions of local authorities, of course those who have received them. My question is: Is it possible to change the project after getting a promesa for a specific investment? This applies to the time of implementation of the investment. Can an investment initially planned for a period of more than 12 months be made in less than 12 months? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u156	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Local governments have been waiting for years to have a fair relationship with the government, to really cover the costs of the tasks they carry out on behalf of the state. They expect partnership and trust, trust that they know better about the needs of the people and better decide what to use the money for. The government gives, in principle, Poland's debt, unable to obtain PLN 110 billion of subsidies from the European Union effectively, and finally reduces the revenue of local government. The PiS unfortunately doesn't understand self-government. Instead of handing out promenes, paper checks, leave this money in municipalities, powiats and voivodships. At least that would be fair. But it is what it is. I therefore ask for information on the criteria which determine the kindness of the government and whether local governments can appeal against those decisions which are being taken. High Izbo! Polish Load is a system program of Polish debt. One could paraphrase the famous quote and say, "Never so many have been indebted so much by so few. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u157	Thank you. Mrs Józef Ruchrek-Żelazko, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u158	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish Load, Strategic Investment Programme is a program that proves that the government's cooperation with the local government is very good. I am not surprised that this kind of anger in you is aroused by this program, because we are throwing this argument out of your hands - you can no longer say that the government does not cooperate with local governments. In Małopolska almost PLN 2 billion went to local governments... [[You don't understand...]] ... 99% local governments received funding. In the district of Brest, all local authorities have received funding for important investments that have not been implemented for many years. In the Bochen district, that's for example. kindergartens, roads, bridges. In individual municipalities it is water and sewage installations, modernization of public buildings. These are specific tasks that will be carried out within the framework of the Polish Order. Ladies and gentlemen! You complain so much that on the Polish Lodz they lose their self-governments. That's not true. It is possible to download a calculator from the Ministry of Finance, from which it is clear that individual municipalities do not lose at all in terms of tax revenue or in terms of subsidies from the state budget. Let me give you a concrete example of the municipality of Brzesko. Between 2010 and 2015, PLN 143 million were transferred from the state budget (Dzinek) and PLN 220 million were transferred from 2016 to 2021. Tax revenues have increased by more than 14%. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u159	Thank you very much, Member. I have a big favor to ask. Since we are slowly approaching the end of this point, I appeal to all States not to prolong and really shorten their speeches so that everyone can ask a question. Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska. You're very kind.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u160	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will ask the question: Why did the government rob some local governments? You're talking about voivodship divisions. Wherever your constituents are, they are rewarded. Why are you doing this? You say it's so good in your rule, but the people I meet every day say something completely different. [[What do they say?]] I'm surprised you don't see any convergence with the Polish People's Republic. It was said to Poles: sign up for the party and we will take care of you. And that's how it is now. As the municipality votes for the PiS, then it has bigger grants. [[Voice from the hall: You're full of shit.]] [[That's why he's voting more and more for the PiS.]] [[Voice from the room: Why are you lying?]] Don't bother me because I didn't bother you. I'm listening and I'm not interrupting. On the other hand, I wanted to tell you that I remember the Polish People's Republic exactly. I remember what it looked like. [[Shame on you, Member.]] I think there's a lot of people here who remember that exactly. It's the same with you guys. He's coming all day to open up a little bit of the road. [[Voice from the hall: How did Komorowski open the Wrocław ring road?]] Anyway, I wanted to tell you, if that's what you're saying about the 8 years of the Platform -- I wasn't in it, but I have to say -- that they really did a great job, and in relation to you -- a huge job. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u161	Once again, I remind you to cut back, watch your time, respect others who want to speak. Mr Jarosław Zieliński, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u162	Mrs. Marshal! I would like to thank Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and the Government very warmly for this decision as part of the first edition of the allocation of funds for strategic investments under the Great Programme of Poland, which launches a great project for Poland. I took part in the Podlaskie Voivodeship, from which I hold a parliamentary mandate, in recent days a whole series of meetings with local government officials. Everyone expresses their real gratitude to the Polish government, stressing that there has never been such money, so much money for the development of local Poland in municipalities, powiats, cities and regions. On October 25, 2021, it will probably become history as an epochal date, because a really big project and a great modernization of Poland begins. These subsequent editions of the Polish Order will certainly allow this process to be further developed, but local authorities stress that many investments would not have been feasible if it had not been for this financial support. There are even municipalities which have received a grant in this first tranche that is even close to the size of the municipality's budget. After all, ladies and gentlemen, this is an extraordinary situation. If someone questions this, they simply do not want Poland to develop. [[Applause]] It's simply an act to the detriment of the future. Once again, I stress that this is a big deal (the bell), a big project. Thank you very much for this and I hope to continue.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u163	Thank you very much, sir. Once again, let us respect each other and shorten our speeches so that everyone can speak. Mrs Anna Ewa Cicholska, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u164	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Last Monday at the castle in Nidzica there was great joy - meeting of local government officials with Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. Please, you could have been there. I was there. The local government thanked me for such support. These are small towns and villages that have received such support. These are facts, ladies and gentlemen. City of Mława - 23 million, town of Przasnysz - over 13 million, district of przasnyski - 13.3 million, municipality of Strzegowo - 10 million, district of żuromiński - 12.8 million, the municipality of Grudusk - 10 million, the municipality of Ojrzeń - 11.3 Million. Ladies and gentlemen, in my constituency, all the municipalities have been supported, all the local authorities are happy. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Thanks to this money new sections of roads, sports infrastructure, sewage treatment plants will be created. A big thank you to the Prime Minister and to the Minister. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u165	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Andrzej Gawron, Law and Justice. [[There isn't.]] There isn't. Mrs Katarzyna Sjojka, Law and Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u166	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki announced at the beginning of the week the results of the government strategic investment fund of Poland Lad. It is over PLN 23 billion to improve infrastructure and improve the quality of life of inhabitants of cities, towns and villages. It is an opportunity to reduce social inequalities and create better living conditions for Poles and Poles, also for the inhabitants of Wielkopolska, also for southern Wielkopolska. More than PLN 1980 million will go to the local governments of Wielkopolska Voivodship for strategic investments. A envelope of 663 million will be sent to southern Wielkopolska. It will be dedicated to the renovation of roads, sports facilities, cycling routes, also water and sewage networks, the exchange of heat sources using renewable energy sources. Some of these investments have not yet had a chance to be realised, e.g. The way of Adventures - Biskupice in the Ostrzeszów district. And so, over 64 million PLN will go to the local governments of the district of Kępińskie, the district of Ostrzeszowski - over 52 million PLN, the district of Ostrowski - over 82 million PLN, the district of Krotoszyński - 32 million PLN, the district of Pleszew - over 32 million PLN, the district of Jarociński - over 32 million PLN, the district of Kalisz - almost 70 million PLN plus 44 million PLN for the city of Kalisz. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I am pleased that so much money will flow to southern Wielkopolska, but thank you very much to the Prime Minister and to the Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u167	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u168	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Seym! As the previous speakers mentioned here, the first edition of the Polish Load is behind us. Local governments received almost PLN 24 billion. In this Chamber there were voices from the opposition that no algorithms were used, that the number of inhabitants of the municipalities was not taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen, when considering the number of inhabitants, some municipalities would not have received any money at all. What should a small popeero community do in a large area, if it did not have its own contribution and was therefore not taken into account, could not submit an application? There are terrible roads, there is no sewage and water supply infrastructure, although in neighbouring municipalities, richer ones, the world looks different. Today, these municipalities thank us for considering other criteria. The money was divided into proposals, not at the will of our government or anyone else. It was the municipalities who applied for that money. And my question concerns the next edition of the Polish Order. Thank you very much, Member. Will the local governments (the bell) be able to repeat the submission of applications for which they did not receive money in the first hand? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u169	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Andrzej Kryj, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u170	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Time flies, and the narrative of the opposition is the same. When the first recruitment of the Government Local Investment Fund was decided in July 2020, you also talked about uncoverable checks, cardboard and postcards. And for the money that was then made to local governments, there were really many necessary investments. And so it will be at this point. The Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship, beautiful, but not the largest, receives nearly 1 billion. My district of Ostrowiec for the construction of a youth athlete's stadium from the team of sports championships gets 16 million and this is the money that has been waiting for several years. The road of the voivodship is PLN 754.87 million, which will go to the Świętokrzyskie voivodship. And it was the marshal who asked me to do it in my town. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I really thank you for this program and look forward to the next edition. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u171	Thank you. Mr Aleksander Forczyński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u172	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! To the total opposition: your eight years of ruling... [[Voice from the room: And your 6.]] ...is 16 years of reconstruction of Poland. We can do this. [[Applause]] You have developed large agglomerations, and we reach small municipalities. Sustainable development. Your self-governments thanked us, and you guys scream all the time, you always do. [[Applause]] Poles won't fall for this anymore, absolutely not. Don't lie to me, every government has received funds, unless it's too much money. Dear Minister, I had the honour to convey good news in my city, in Chojnice - for Chojnice and człuchowski districts totaling over PLN 107 million. I would like to thank you very warmly from this point of view as a Member of the Government of the United Right with Mateusz Morawiecki at the head. Thank you very much. My question: Will local authorities be able to apply for funds for the development of fibre lines in the next edition of this programme? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Włodzimierz Tomaszewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u174	My basic question to the opposition is: How much did this opposition give when it was in power, to local governments for investment? [[Applause]] [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: It is the minister who needs to be asked.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If local governments spent the most on investments in 2018, 51 billion, please see that the 13.5 billion that went under the local investment fund is over 20% extra money for investments. And all the local governments got it, at least 10% of each local government got extra for the investment from this fund. Now every local government gets out of this $23 billion. [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: 6 years, you destroyed Poland.]] This 23 billion is half of the annual investment of local governments, it's extra money. Those are enormous amounts. Let the Member see how local governments have been robbed since 1990. If the Platform says she was adding to local governments, show us how much you added. I would like to remind you: I implemented these laws on the competence of powiats and voivodships, but when it comes to decentralisation of public finances, the local governments got 25% less than the government had. And now you add that money and that's the most important thing - investment. There will be a common good because these investments will increase tax revenues to local governments and to the state budget and will create jobs. And you have to look at it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u175	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Paul, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u176	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The year 2020 was probably the most difficult year after World War II for the economy, health care, education or many other areas of our lives. 2021 is a time of reconstruction after the coronavirus, but also preparation for the big investments that will be implemented in the following year. We look with great optimism at 2022, because it was the government of Law and Justice that created and financed the Polish Load program. These 23 billion PLN, which will go to Polish local governments, will allow to realize investments, whose execution due to lack of financial resources has been translated over the years. I know what I'm talking about, because when I was mayor of the city and the municipality of Nowa Sarzyna at the time when the Civic Platform was running, there was money for everything, especially for investments that were practically stopped at the time. And now the Polish government has financially supported almost every municipality in Poland, without looking at party affiliation or political views. [[Applause]] Therefore, as a Member from Podkarpacie and Lewajski soil on behalf of himself and local government, I thank the Prime Minister and the Polish Government for billions of zlotys, which will go to all cities and municipalities throughout Poland. But right away I have a question whether the Government of Law and Justice is going to announce another recruitment from the Polish Load program. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u177	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mosiński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u178	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When I listen to the opposition, I feel like you don't want the money. So go to your presidents, your ladies, your mayors, and say, "Don't take the money from this fund." And these investments, which were the investments of dreams for your governments, maybe you'll realize how you take over, which I doubt. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! Thank you very much for almost PLN 2 billion for Wielkopolska, for over PLN 44 million for Kalisz and many other cities in southern Wielkopolska. When I spoke to the mayors and presidents, the uncles, the heads of the PSL, the Left, the Platform, the PiS, they said one thing: thanks to these measures we realize our dreams, because what they described in the conclusions were our dreams from years ago, rather impossible to realize. So we thank the government of Mateusz Morawiecki for this money, because we will be able to make the investments that citizens are waiting for. And my request at the end, Minister. Please specify the approximate schedule of the second and third editions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u179	Thank you. Mrs Anna Milczanowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u180	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! We receive calls, we receive e-mails from the municipalities, from the residents of the municipalities with huge thanks, because at last there are such places that there will be in such a place, and not elsewhere done the forgotten road and no matter how you wanted to curse reality, a respected opposition, unfortunately this thing is happening and indeed billions flow to local governments in the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] But I have a question. There are municipalities and other local government units, including powiats, namely. The district of Radomszczański, which I represent, has submitted three applications... Some municipalities did not receive funding at all, because 97% self-government units territorially, this funding was received. The district of Radomszczański submitted three applications. Unfortunately, two amounted to about 30 and over 20 million PLN, so he received about 500 thousand. It is one of the largest districts in the territory of the Republic of Poland, it is a poor district. I would like to ask if, on the next recruitment of this type of local government, they have a chance to be given priority. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u181	Thank you. Katarzyna Czochara, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u182	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! About PLN 0.5 billion for Opolskie voivodship for various types of investments, construction of roads, pavements, construction of sewers. These are facts. Let me quote from this place the words of Mayor Byczyna by PSL: It is a great day for Byczyna, for the municipality most indebted in our voivodship and one of the most indebted in Poland. We are in the process of creating a budget for 2022 and we can see that we could not afford any investment, if not for funds under the government programme of Poland Load. Dear Opposite! I'm surprised there's been so many criticisms coming out of this podium today. [[You're lying.]] Thank you very much, Member. Many people ask the question of the Civic Platform programme. Critic+ programs, blindness+ and stupidity+, because it can only be one answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u183	Thank you. Mr Kazimierz Starzdowski, Law and Justice. There isn't. Mr Władysław Kurowski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u184	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Dear colleagues! Małopolska enjoys 2 billion PLN for investments. District 12 enjoys several hundred million zlotys. On the other hand, I wanted to express my thanks on behalf of all local governments of the Thinking Land, the Thinking District, because they asked me to do so and obliged me to thank Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and you, Minister, for the amount of PLN 100 million for the Thinking District. It is the means directed to local governments, but it is primarily the means directed to the inhabitants of the Thinking District. Thank you very much and we hope for more in the next hand. To the honourable opposition, the words are: Polish Load has no political colors. It has one colour, white and red, because it is directed to all Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u185	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u186	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I was at the summary of the handing out money, handing it out in the Łódź voivodship. What was the first thing the locals thanked for? First of all, for the fact that the money went to all the municipalities and was directed to these programs, to those tasks which they could not do before, because once they were on roads like this, once they were on cultural houses, while local authorities themselves know what needs they have. It is precisely for those needs that local governments know best about that money has been directed. I call for the next ones to be directed in this way as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u187	Thank you very much. Mr Patrick Wicher, Law and Justice. [[Voice from the hall: The Orliks were, now they have to be closed.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u188	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to begin by thanking you very much for the work done both to the Prime Minister and to the Minister, as well as to all those who have supervised this programme. Titanic Benedictine work that brings success. Ladies and gentlemen! These programs aren't propaganda, these programs are concrete, these are departments that allow you to think about the future. We didn't give fish to our local governments, we gave a fishing rod to develop tourist infrastructure, education infrastructure, so that they could invest in the youngest, develop education and more. This range, the range of investments was very wide. We are catching up on the civilization delays that, unfortunately, our predecessors have given us in excess. Therefore, my dear countries, this edition and the future are the future of local governments, it is the future of our nation, the future of society and the development of this potential. We want the municipalities to become more and more independent. Thanks to these investments, by catching up on these delays, they will be able to implement more ambitious plans themselves during the century. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u189	Thank you. Mr Adam Sněžek, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u190	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The southern part of the Podkarpackie voivodship reaches the constituency from this recruitment of PLN 860 million for investments, mainly road, water and sewage, but also for the construction of photovoltaic farms in the Fredropol gmina, swimming and recreational complex in Birča, reconstruction of a school building in Radymno, construction of a rural cultural house in Wola Hungary, a municipal selective waste collection park in Tarnowiec or a tourism and culture park in Skołyszyn. These are excellent investments expected by local communities. This is the real implementation of the principle of sustainable development. Thank you very much, sir. Local government officials from our region agree... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Gontarz, Law and Justice. There isn't. Mrs Anna April. You're welcome. There isn't. Mr Mariusz Trepka, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u192	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The opposition says that these criteria were unfair, because not all municipalities or districts got, but this is not true, because the applications were submitted by municipalities and counties. I would like to thank on behalf of local governments from the Częstochowa district 28 who received the following amounts: Kłobucki district - more than 77 million PLN, Lubliniecki district - more than 55 million PLN, Częstochowa district - more than 130 million PLN, Częstochowa city - more than 35 million PLN and myszkowski district, which I am a resident of, more than 46 million PLN. Minister! Thank you very much for this strategic fund, thank you to the Prime Minister and all the committee members who have worked hard. On behalf of local governments, I ask that this continue to be for the benefit of the inhabitants of Poland as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u193	Thank you very much. Member Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u194	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The government of the United Right saves Polish local governments. This very good example is the municipality of Byczyn ruled by the great mayor from the Polish People's Party, Mrs Iwona Sobania. Byczyn Municipality is one of the three most indebted municipalities in Poland and has received almost PLN 11 million for the largest investment in many years, i.e. for the construction of sewers. This is a concrete example of how the Government of the United Right helps local governments. Before the politicians of the Civic Platform and the Left start criticizing the Polish Government, it is worth to go to Byczyn, to talk to the residents, the mayor, because there everyone is happy with the huge funds they have obtained for investments. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u195	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Mrs Barbara Bartus, reminding me that you promised me a very short speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u196	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Ministers, At first, thank you very much for this debate. Thank you, Marshal, for the fact that Members who wanted to say a few words of truth so badly from this speaker could do so, because this programme we are talking about is very important for local governments. Minister, I would like to extend my thanks to Minister Paweł Chef, from everyone, for the titanic work you have done. [[Applause]] has acted as the chairman of the committee which has dealt with these requests. There were a lot of these conclusions. 23 billion zlotys, which have been allocated, are very big money. Of course, local authorities, which could benefit from funding up to 95% of investments, submitted these applications, most of them submitted these applications. Because most local governments know it's to serve the people. Those investments we're talking about, the money we're talking about, it's not money for ours, it's not money for the mayors, for the wojews, for the old men or for the marshals. This is the money that these self-governments will be able to invest for the people, for the residents. Just like in my district that was late when the money was never this big. We're just catching up on infrastructure, for example. water and sewage. No water, no sewers. Roads in many places in Poland were impassable. With these measures, it changes. Minister, another call this year, but is the decision too? Because everyone's waiting for this. What's really important is that this is where we've come in, like, a lot of times, that we're doing damage. Ladies and gentlemen! During the Citizen Platform and PSL governments there were also investments, with considerable delays, and who was doing them? Well, great entrepreneurs, often foreign, who took Polish subcontractors... [[Schletinski...]] ...our subcontractors who are still fighting against the fact that they haven't been paid. Here it is different, investments are such that local entrepreneurs can do them and work can have local residents, often earlier by the previous government forgotten. The opposition was screaming - few countries have signed up because, in fact, what to talk about - and it would be fair to say: thank you, but you didn't. You've also said a lot, you might say, you've been missing the truth, you've been lying. You said that local government officials had to pay, that they'd just get some paper checks that didn't show up. Investments with RFIL are already being repaid. It's not just locals, it's the people who are happy about it. [[Applause]] And it's not the Prime Minister who decides, it's your vagrants who make the proposals, it's them who decide if the proposals... These are the ones that will serve the residents most, and I have already mentioned the priorities. At the end of the day, I wanted to say the last word. I am from the district of Gorlicki, the whole district, all 10 municipalities plus the district received funds, and it is significant funds. Biecz - almost 9.5 million, Bobowa - almost 13 million, Gorlice municipality - almost 15 million, Łużna - 8.7 Million, Oil - 8835 thousand, Sękowa - 9 million. I didn't mention all of them, but they asked me very warmly to thank the Prime Minister, the government, and to ask for further resources. To sum up, you screamed that now is good, and if we leave, it will be bad, so the conclusion is: Law and Justice must rule further, so that Poland can continue to grow and that people can live better. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u197	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Minister Paweł Chiefnernaker. Come in, Minister. [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: It is already over.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u198	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! It's over time, you don't even want to hear the answer to your question I've prepared. Why so much hatred, ma'am? Here's what I'm gonna say: I see you're in a lot of pain about this show. And when it comes to this hatred that has come from you, someone once said that hatred has caused many problems in the world, but it has not solved them yet. And we are solving the specific problems that people have been waiting for over the years with this program. [[Applause]] [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strzycharska: Why are you shouting, it's hysteria...]] To answer your questions, ladies and gentlemen, I thought you'd be... [[Your hands are shaking.]] What hands? Sir, my hands are clean. And you? Come on, let me see your hands. Mr. President, why are you screaming like that? Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Paweł Chezernaker: I thought you would have more class, Mr, really, because the opposition senator to the Government of Law and Justice, the President of the Polish Towns Association today sent me a letter in which he presented some of the cases he had questions about, but in the first sentence he writes: "Thank you for the work done under your direction by the committee examining the requests of local government units in connection with the Strategic Investment Programme, the results of which were recognized by the huge [[Applause]] Most self-governments. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I was convinced that, with any doubt from the state, you would be able to approach objectively, but you could not. You said that in eight years you spent 11 billion in schetiny. We spend 6 billion a year. [[Applause]] 11 billion is going to be us for a year and a half, and you're talking about investments that have been made for eight years. Ladies and gentlemen! As I go on, I will answer specific questions that have been many and that I have noted. I'll try to answer the vast majority of the questions. When can investment start? Well, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of next week, the promeses of the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego will be issued and all the documentation relating to the opening of tenders will be ready to start, so that all tenders will be announced within six months. You have repeatedly said that there are fewer resources for local governments. I invite you to review the forecasts of the Ministry of Finance, you can find all this on the Internet and hope that you will find it with a bit of goodwill. Thanks to the planned changes, local government revenues from PIT, CIT and general subsidies will amount to PLN 149 billion next year according to the forecasts of the Ministry of Finance. It's gonna be 9 billion more than it is now. So it's not true and it's a lie that someone's taking someone. The State, when it says that someone is taking someone, shows that they are simply opposed to an increase in the tax-free amount. [[Member of Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: Fantasia.]] The State considers that this amount should not be increased because if we raise the tax-free amount, the State considers that they will lose. As the amount of free money increases, there will always be smaller amounts that will influence the state budget and the government budget, that is the basis of economics. You really don't have to know much to figure it out. Ladies and gentlemen! We're working to compensate local governments for their losses. As I said, thanks to the algorithm that we adopted in the Law for which we voted as Law and Justice - I thank the parliamentary majority that it supported - this general development subsidy will be available as part of the local government's own income. As I repeat, with regard to local government revenues from PIT, CIT and general subsidies, they will amount to more than this year according to forecasts from the Ministry of Finance. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm gonna answer some specific questions. You asked why only 35 million for Bydgoszcz. Two applications were implemented for Bydgoszcz, the third application was for 425 million. It could not be implemented because no such request was carried out on a national scale. The biggest conclusion was 160 million for the Lesser Poland voivodship. So that it was difficult to implement the proposal for almost PLN 0.5 billion. One of your fellow Members began his speech by saying: this is your Polish Lad. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, our Polish Load, we are not ashamed of it, we are proud, [[Applause]] And if you have any other ways or are ashamed of the fact that he is Polish, that's your problem. Why didn't the Fisherman get the money? Ladies and gentlemen, Rybnik submitted one application for PLN 100 million. Welcome to the next hand. Three applications may be submitted in accordance with the principle that applies in this programme. I'm sure that's when Rybnik gets the money. As one application is made for a large amount, it doesn't matter whether it's Rybnik or, for example, Rybnik. Chelm ruled by Law and Justice. Money just won't get there. It wouldn't be possible for you to rule. Ladies and gentlemen! One of your fellow Members asked why the boardwalks, why not the money. Ladies and gentlemen, show me a self-government officer who pays in advance for the job. [[Before the tender.]] You pay either in tranches or at the end. This programme provides that if the investment is multi-annual, we will pay for it in tranches. If the investment is shorter, we will pay at the end. It's simple. This is math. In your day, was anyone paid in advance to do a job? What happened next? Then there were boobs. Ladies and gentlemen, you are raising arguments from which local government officials who called me during this debate really laughed. [[Applause]] Who pays who in advance to do the job? Ladies and gentlemen! The programme for Popegeer sites will also continue as part of sport investments. Sports investments will continue to be carried out in the Popegeer area. Why didn't Sandomierski district receive funds? That was another question. There was one application for PLN 35 million. No such conclusion in Poland in this hand has been settled. Buski County submitted two applications for PLN 72 million and PLN 30 million. Nor did he receive any funds precisely because these applications concerned very large sums. The largest conclusion reached in the case of powiats concerned PLN 18 million. It was hard to give two, three or 10 times more. Ladies and gentlemen! Big deal. It's about the municipality of Przecław. I would also like the inhabitants of the municipality of Przecław to receive funds, but if the municipality, which has 2 000. The inhabitants, submit one application for PLN 26 million, it is difficult for them to receive such funds. Other municipalities must also receive them. [[Voice from the hall: They don't have that kind of budget.]] As far as the municipality of Wieluń is concerned, it has also made very large proposals. We will encourage the municipality to make these proposals smaller in the next call. We will want to implement Polish Load together with municipalities such as the municipality of Przecław and the municipality of Wieluń. Ladies and gentlemen! As regards the municipality of Bielsko-Biała, which was mentioned above, this was the largest application considered from among those submitted. The question is, how will the program be modified? At the moment we drive around Poland and talk to local government officials. In two weeks' time, we would like to present you with information on how the programme will be modified. It will be modified according to the conclusions drawn by local authorities, including in meetings with Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego throughout Poland. The question was whether local authorities would be able to apply for the same investments. They'll be able to apply for it. Perhaps some investments will simply have to be divided into stages in order to be able to submit an application for the first stage and later for the next. The next question concerned applications for fibre optics. They could have been folded by now. That was the fourth priority, 20%. own contribution. We're holding it together. Applications for investments related to fibre will continue to be available. Ladies and gentlemen! I've tried to answer as many questions as possible. In the last sentence, I would like to say that you have often said how wonderful it was in the rule of law and justice... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Platforms.]] It was great under the rule of the Civic Platform, and it's bad now, under the rule of law and justice. [[Unfortunately, you didn't admit that...]] [[Voice from the room: 6 years.]] Laugh, ladies and gentlemen. I'll tell you one thing. There's a person among local government officials who connects them all. This person has been Secretary of the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission for over 20 years. This is Mr. Andrzej Porawski. He was elected a local government official of the 25th anniversary. I hope you know him because this man is an icon among local government officials. In a recent interview, after he ceased to be Secretary of the Commission of the Joint Government and the Territorial Government, he was asked a question. In 25 years, he worked with many governments, so he was asked which government was the most difficult when it came to government and self-government relations. Mr Andrzej Porawski replied: I was the hardest with the government of Donald Tusk, who declared pro-government, but did not implement it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u199	Thank you very much, Minister. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed to the examination of item 15 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity on the draft resolution submitted by the Bureau of the Sejm on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm (prints No 1661 and 1669). I kindly ask Mr Zbigniew Babalski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u200	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report to the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity on the draft resolution tabled by the Bureau of the Sejm on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, print No 1661. Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, sent the above draft resolution to the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee for first reading on 13 October 2021. The Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee, following its first reading and examination of the draft at its meeting on 14 October 2021, requests the High Sejm to adopt draft resolution No 1661 without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u201	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Kazimierz Smolinski will speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u202	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I am pleased to present the position of the club in relation to the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Parliament contained in the print no. 1661. As a club, we welcome and support this proposal, which is very brief, which empowers the Sejm Bureau to lay down the rules and modalities for the delivery of resolutions and notifications to Members of Parliament of the regulations referred to in the provisions of the chapter in which the Article is contained. 25a. There has been no such regulation so far, and therefore there are problems with the effective delivery of resolutions or regulations related to e.g. with a parliamentary salary or with a parliamentary diet. In order to address this problem effectively, this draft authorises the Sejm Bureau to define in detail... As in other cases, this will be possible by e-mail. The details will be specified here by the Sejm's Bureau. We support this project in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u203	Thank you very much. Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, on behalf of the Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u204	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition club in relation to the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm, prints no. 1661 and 1669. The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm should be clear and clear and without doubt. The draft resolution assumes that the Bureau of the Sejm is to lay down the rules and manner in which the resolutions and regulations relating to the reduction of the parliamentary diet or the appointment of Members of the Sejm are to be delivered to Members. As of today, there is no regulation in this area, which is a practical problem. Following the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, the Sejm Bureau will have a delegation to determine how a resolution or order to reduce diet or salary will be delivered to the Member concerned. The Civic Coalition Club does not comment on the project presented. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u205	Thank you, Member. Mr Marek Rutka, on behalf of the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u206	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A draft resolution on the principles and manner of delivery of resolutions and orders to Members on the reduction of Members' salary would probably not have been considered if it had not been for the specific way of being one of the Members known for denying the existence of the COVID-19 pandemic. For understandable reasons, I do not quote the name of the Member in order not to promote his character. However, it is worth looking at the details of the case, which has been the direct cause of the proposed amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. A Member known for his love for the monarchy and supporting the idea of the formal intronization of Jesus Christ as King of Poland was treated with the most severe of possible financial penalties contained in the article. 25 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Of course, the reasons for the punishment were not the peculiar views of the Member, but the words addressed during the plenary session of the Sejm towards the Minister of Health, I quote: You will hang. Any punishment, including financial punishment, should result in a desired change in behaviour. In the case cited, no such change is possible. Importantly, a fundraiser is held on one of the money collection portals aimed at supporting the Member's activities. There is nothing to hide that the collection has to do with the financial penalty imposed on the Member. For today at the hour. 11.45 PLN 419 626 was included in the collection account. The payments were made by 6250 people. The amount collected repeatedly exceeds the total amount of the penalty imposed on the Member in accordance with Article. 25 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. The following example is given to show that the financial penalty imposed has in no way fulfilled its task. The Left Club supports solutions that clarify regulations and eliminate interpretation difficulties and practical problems related to the delivery of resolutions and regulations to Members. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u207	Thank you. Mr Jan Łopata, Coalition Poland. Please state your position.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u208	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition has the honour to present its position on this item. High Seym! As has been the case on several occasions, the purpose of the proposed amendment is to add a provision in Section I, Chapter 4, which will form the basis for the Sejm's Bureau to determine the way in which resolutions and regulations on the reduction of parliamentary or parliamentary allowances are to be delivered to Members of the Sejm. Practically, as presented by a representative of the Sejm Bureau at a committee meeting, after this proposed amendment to the Rules of Procedure, the delivery of messages and correspondence to the Sejm will be done by text message, text message sent to the Member's mobile phone number or by a message sent to the Member's seym address or by another one indicated by him. It seems that these technical changes in total, without the need to mention a particular case, only to improve communication, are good. Polish People's Party Club, Coalition Poland will support this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u209	Thank you, sir. Mr Artur Dziambor, on behalf of the Confederate Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u210	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! To begin with, a brief comment on this bill... [[Resolutions.]] ...this resolution. I don't really know why she's even here because she doesn't really change anything, but let's have a real conversation. Honesty is a rare feature here, unfortunately even on this platform. This resolution should not be called a revision of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. This resolution has a name: Grzegorz Braun and should be called: lex Braun. Grzegorz Braun, who, by sticking to the principle and sticking to the principle of the right to perform the parliamentary mandate in the way he considers to be free, was repeatedly asked out of this room and punished financially by Marshal Zgorzelski, Marshal Czarzasty, by Marshal Witek repeatedly. I don't think your marshal has that much experience, which is very... But I would love to do that. But it's gonna end well for you, because eventually you won't be responsible in the future. But I am ready, sir. We have here legal expertise on the unlawfulness of the order for Members to wear masks. One is written by Professor Mark Chmaj, and the other is written by Professor Sabina Grabowska, who did this analysis for the Sejm Analysis Office. Both these analyses clearly state that limiting the mandate of a Member and inviting a Member out of the Chamber because he did not wear a mask according to your will was unlawful. It was also illegal to take away his pay, because contrary to what you are telling him, it is not that so far Grzegorz Braun has blinked at responsibility. There was no flash of responsibility. The money taken from him by the Sejm Bureau has been collected from his payment over the last year. It means that not Grzegorz Braun, but his family was taken hostage by the Sejm Bureau because of the money being taken away from him so that the family could support him. This money was taken from him, and now he has received the highest possible financial penalty, which made it necessary to run the fundraiser so that he could continue to function normally. Ladies and gentlemen! In the future, of course, we will have to seriously consider whether the Sejm Bureau or the Marshal of the Sejm, or whether anyone has the right to impose financial penalties on Members for acting or saying something that the parliamentary majority does not agree with, because this parliamentary majority, which all you left to the law, or actually left, left, centre you created, has led us to make such absurd changes today. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, you have exceeded your authority, and these experts are very clear about it. I hope that (the bell) will be held responsible for this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u211	It seems that there is also a judgment of the administrative court which speaks quite the contrary. Here you go, Mr Michał Grammar, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u212	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Yes, this is an age-old challenge, how to improve the delivery of notices to Members of reduced recruitment. Let me just remind you that this is happening in the Sejm, whose rules do not see digital documents at all. I will remind you that this is the case in the Sejm, where electronic letters sent by ministers are printed on paper and delivered to Members in this form - on cards. This is the case in a House where a marshal, contrary to the rules of procedure, allows a speaker not to have a parliamentary mandate so that she can preach her homophobic phrases and empathize with hate speech and at the same time sees nothing wrong in that the speaking time of Members in the debate is limited to 30 seconds. Next time, maybe 15 seconds or seven seconds. This is the case in the House, in which the vote that has been lost can be resummated, and the Members and Members should be reminded that five lawyers have been consulted on this matter. Yes, it is a very important challenge to significantly improve the delivery of notices to Members about the reduction of salaries. Members of the movement Poland 2050 will of course support this solution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u213	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. Six MPs signed up. You're welcome, sir, once you've done your job... I'm setting time for the question-- half a minute. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. [[Voice from the room: 15 seconds.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u214	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To be honest, I don't really understand the reasons that caused the authors of this project to write it. I believe that the honourable Bureau, like the Prime Minister, is preparing for war and is therefore trying to make its activities more formal. For this reason, the Sejm Bureau submitted a proposal for granting the Sejm Bureau the power to decide how the Sejm Bureau will notify Members of the penalties imposed so far, as I understand... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u215	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jakub Kulesza, near the Confederation. Mr President, perhaps it is worth asking your marshal or the head of the club - then you will know why these solutions are. [[How can speech be limited? Then why are we here?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u216	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First thing. You do not need this resolution, to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, to take hostages of the family of Members, to limit their parliamentary mandate, to exclude them from the agenda. I didn't take any of the Bureau's decisions, and yet half of my salary was taken from me because I didn't have a mask on this speaker. No one's wearing that mask today, even though we're supposed to have a fourth wave. That's one aspect. Ladies and gentlemen! The second aspect. The Office of Sejm Analysis, an expert report which says that the Sejm Bureau, headed by the Marshal (The Bell), is acting illegally. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u217	Thank you very much. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u218	We are improving this regulation in the wrong direction, ladies and gentlemen. It is absurd that the Member sent here by the voters... As the name suggests, this is the messenger sent by the voters, should be untouchable to his colleagues. It is unacceptable for his colleagues to review his statements and punish him financially. This is unacceptable. His salary is paid by his constituents, not by the state. This country should only transfer money, they belong like a dog's house to a Member and it is absolutely unacceptable to review in any way the statements of Members by his colleagues (the bell), political competitors. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u219	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u220	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I personally do not support a situation where you are being punished for saying something to another person or, I don't know, not wearing a mask. If another Member is offended, then there are common courts, they should sue and settle the matter there. But I'm on another case. Maybe the Sejm would finally notice that we are in the 21st century, not in the Middle Ages, and allow us to hold a committee meeting remotely. It would really be better, and it would be better and more efficient to deal with things. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u221	Thank you. Mrs Katarzyna Kotula, Club Left. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u222	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! And I thank you for this resolution, because if you can't do otherwise, you can just do that. Mr Braun even uses the pandemic for political purposes and practices circus filmmaking here in the Seym, where it is possible: here in the plenary room, and unfortunately very often in committee meetings. I would like Mr Braun, when he comes to committee meetings, to work actually in substance, as they said, to be defended here by fellow hypocrites who probably inoculated themselves, but simply do not talk about it, because they could pay a political price for it. The highest number of deaths since World War II. 450 Members can submit (the bell), but one Member does not. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u223	Thank you, Member. [[On what basis of these discourses?]] Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland. [[In corrigendum mode.]] But what do you have to correct, sir? [[My name has been mentioned.]] You didn't say anything. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u224	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have listened to this debate and I would like to point out that every Member, including a Member of the Confederation, must bear in mind that, apart from having his own will, his own beliefs, and here, in this House, and outside the House, there are certain principles that must be respected in Poland. And even the parliamentary mandate must comply with these rules. Do not reduce this problem to masks, gentlemen, because there has been a very serious accusation here, there have been words that should not be spoken in this House, whether by a member of the Confederation club or otherwise. We need to think about how we can make sure that these words don't rain in the future. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u225	Thank you, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u226	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have a very short question. Perhaps the committee representative will be able to answer them. Is the Bureau considering extending the time scheduled for the debate today, in particular the presentation of the draft and the response on this issue? Today it is 15 minutes, which in many cases is definitely insufficient and makes this debate more caricatureal than concrete. Certainly, such changes in debate time are needed. Are they planned? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u227	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 16. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Public Health Act and some other laws (print No 1631). I kindly ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Maciej Miłkowski to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u228	Dear Marshal! Dear Members, I am very pleased to present to you a draft government law amending the Public Health Act and some other laws. The main objective of this law is to create a National Anti-Dependencies Centre. This aims to focus public health tasks on prevention and resolution of addiction problems in a single organisational unit. Two institutions under the responsibility of the Minister of Health are currently planned: the National Office for the Prevention of Drug Addiction and the National Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems. Focusing on this subject will combine behavioural addictions and addictive psychoactive substances at different stages of action to prevent addictions in education, prevention, training of staff, treatment, rehabilitation and research activities. Currently, these two institutions carry out statutory tasks similar to those of the National Health Programme related to specific types of addictions, although it is justified in many areas to combine these tasks in relation to prevention and resolution of problems in general related to addictions or to monitor the implementation of State policy on addictions. The Centre will work in a coordinated and coherent manner, which will contribute to a more efficient management of the problems arising from the use of psychoactive substances that pose risks to public health. There will be one institution that will be responsible for the whole sector on behalf of the Minister for Health. It will be much more effective and will lead to better exploitation of human and financial potential in the short term, and the management of this entity will be better. We also see that the phenomenon of polytoxic mania is growing and the link between behavioral and chemical addictions is confirmed, and this should therefore be integrated into joint actions in this area. So that's the main purpose of combining these two units into one. The second element of the change concerns the establishment of municipal programmes in the area of addiction prevention, in order to combine prevention activities, solving addiction problems in a single organisational unit, because in many entities, in many municipalities, these two tasks are carried out within a single strategy. We estimate that about 50% Such tasks shall be delegated to one organisational unit and the implementation of those tasks shall be combined within one strategy. Therefore, it will also be a combination at our level, which will allow for better cooperation with local government units. In addition, there are changes related to education, changes in the provision of addiction training and the acquisition of a professional title. We plan to include this education system in the training system set out in the Law on the acquisition of a professional title in the areas applicable to health care. This will result in a uniform education system, uniform skills of individual professionals. Currently, there are three ways to obtain a certificate. Two paths are supported by the National Office for Drugs Prevention, one path is supported by the National Agency for Alcohol Problem Solutions. So that everyone will complete the same specialization cycle in terms of psychotherapy of addictions. In this respect, we harmonise the standards of content of education and the way in which it is implemented, which will certainly contribute to improving the quality of education. At the same time, these provisions provide for recognition of equivalence of a psychotherapy specialist's certificate of addiction with a diploma confirming the acquisition of a specialist's title in the field of psychotherapy addictions referred to in the provisions issued under the Law on the acquisition of a specialist's title in the fields applicable to health protection. At the same time, the Council for the Prevention of Drug Addiction, which is the Prime Minister's advisory body, is still in place. It will be replaced by the Council for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Against addictions. Members will be appointed as well as the President of the Council of Ministers. The Council will be composed of individual representatives of the ministries and from the local government - a representative of the Commission of the Joint Government and the Territorial Government. This advice will, so far, monitor and coordinate the implementation of State policy on addictions and organisational recommendations on addiction. So that it will be collected entirely in one cell. The draft provides for transitional periods for this merger. The entry into force of this law is planned for 1 January next year. This law does not entail additional costs for the State budget. These costs will be implemented under the current costs of these two units. So that organizationally for the Ministry of Health in the case of the whole range this connection will be justified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u229	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented to the High House by Mrs Katarzyna Sjojka. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u230	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Public Health Act and certain other laws, print No 1631. The proposed law amends mainly the Public Health Act of 11 September 2015. The proposed amendments aim to set up a National Anti-Addictment Centre through the merger of the National Office for Drug Prevention and the National Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems. The proposed changes aim to focus public health tasks on prevention and resolution of problems related to different types of addictions in a single organisational unit as a national budgetary unit under the authority of the Minister responsible for Health. Focusing action on the single decision-making entity at the centre will combine issues of various functional and chemical addictions, addictions to legal substances and illegal substances at different stages of action to prevent addictions. Currently operating entities operate separately with regard to alcohol problems and the prevention of drug addiction without other addictions which remain outside the rules of the general law. Currently, each of these entities performs its statutory tasks and tasks of the National Health Programme related to separate types of addictions, although in many cases their combination would be legitimate and beneficial, as both entities carry out tasks of similar scope. The tasks of the actors relate jointly to prevention, treatment of addictions, public education and support for local self-government units in carrying out their statutory tasks concerning the prevention and resolution of alcohol problems as well as the prevention of drug addiction. A factor that differentiates the scope of the tasks of both actors is not the problem areas or forms of social impact, but merely the division into substances whose use causes damage and social problems. A centre dealing in a comprehensive way with addiction issues will enable state policies to address addictions in a coordinated and coherent manner, which will contribute to the achievement of the planned objectives more effectively than ever before. The proposed changes will increase efficiency, reduce administrative burden, improve the current organisational solution and make better use of the State budget and, above all, improve the effectiveness of the activities and tasks carried out. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice recommends continuing legislative work on this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u231	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Raimund Miller, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u232	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club - Civic Platform, I have the honour to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the government draft law amending the Public Health Act and some other laws, print no. 1631. The draft law introduces a merger between the National Office for the Prevention of Drug Addiction and the National Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems. As a result, the National Anti-Dependencies Centre will be set up. The aim of the Centre is to focus public health tasks on prevention and resolution of addiction problems in a single organisational unit as a national budgetary unit set up by the Minister responsible for Health. In place of the Council for the Prevention of Drug Addiction, a Council for the Prevention of Addiction will be set up. Changes in the establishment of voivodship and municipal programmes in the area of prevention of addictions are also envisaged. The project affects the following actors: the National Office for the Prevention of Drug Addiction and the National Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems, the population of addicts and co-dependents, local self-government units and NGOs. I listened to the Minister very carefully. We have some reservations about the provisions of this bill. We believe that this provision overlooks the right of people who are in the process of training in the field of psychotherapy addictions or an instructor in addiction therapy, conducted on the basis of existing rules, and those who are in the course of specialization in the field of psychotherapy addictions, to perform health services in the field of psychotherapy of addicts and their family members. At present, they account for more than 50% healthcare providers employed in addiction treatment facilities. Working with addicts, members of their families determines the possibility of obtaining a certificate from a specialist or instructor on the basis of existing regulations or the possibility of undertaking specialist training in the field of addiction psychotherapy. In that case, we need to get an answer to the question of what legislation will guarantee that these people will continue to have access to patients. We also have reservations about the fact that until today there has been no law on other medical professions, because we do not know to which professions psychotherapists will be assigned and should be assigned to other medical professions. There's a few other records here. We also have doubts that there will be a politicisation of the newly formed body, because it is the Prime Minister who will have a decisive opinion on who will be part of this body. It is very important to use the practice of the persons and decisions that have been taken. It should be noted that the profile and way of acting of the drug agency, which deals with about 60,000, is slightly different. cases in Poland. However, I will remind you that the Polish Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems is an agency that deals with the population of about 3 million people, i.e. addicts and their families. If these people are not in, say, the composition of this advice, we believe that there will be a threat to the functioning of alcohol addiction activities. Of course, we propose further work on this bill. We will ask you to consider our amendments to this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u233	Thank you, sir. Mr Zdzisław Wolski will speak on behalf of the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u234	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! One would like to say: finally. The bill should have been passed by the Sejm, the Senate, the President years ago, and it should have already started in 2019 and those who are more interested know why. Finally, there is an act that regulates the existing distributed fight against addictions, primarily conducted by the PARP, the State Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems, and the National Office for the Prevention of Drug Addiction. These institutions acted in parallel, but because many things overlapd - praise to them - they coordinated many of their actions. Also at the lowest municipal level, the fight so far on alcohol, and the separate fight on drugs, and this dispersion led to the fact that about 50% The municipalities started to create these joint programmes, just ahead of what we started today. This is a complex problem. Mr Miller spoke about this, about alcohol. It is all about addiction, that is, drug addiction, alcohol addiction, but also about all behavioral addictions, that is, functional and even so-called. addictive behaviour and gambling, which the Sejm has been dealing with for many terms. There's a lot more, there's compulsive behavior. There are about 6 million people who are directly affected by this, including those who are codependent, especially families and loved ones. The scope of action of the National Anti-Dependencies Centre will be wide, among others. it will absorb a fund to fight gambling, which, by the way, was beneficial because the number of gambling addicts has fallen significantly. This is, after all, a problem of great social importance, including human importance. Therefore, the national centre will coordinate actions at the level of prevention, therapy and rehabilitation, including on social consequences, including family violence, which is also an important component of the problem. He will take care of, among others. Not just so-called. Psychotropics, but also illegal psychoactive substances, i.e. so-called. By the way, that's what the Minister said. Finally, they will unite the learning modes, because so far we have three: two in the National Bureau for Drug Addiction, one in the PARPA, there will be one common mode. They'll unite a lot of rules. It will allow for better coordination of actions, since, as I said, they intersect each other. Of course, let them only be properly implemented and implemented. Many technical doubts or others in the Health Committee will be discussed at the next stages.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u235	Thank you. And with the second part of the speech on behalf of the Left Club, Mr Jan Szopiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u236	According to Art. Point 1 (8) of the draft law of the members of the Anti-Addictive Board shall be appointed and dismissed by the President of the Council of Ministers. The Council will include, as president, a representative of the Minister responsible for Health and, moreover, 12 other representatives in the rank of Minister or Deputy Minister of the various ministries. On the other hand, the representative of the self-government party will be only one person. In view of the fact that the implementation of this law will depend a lot on the activities of the local government, it seems that the composition of this board is deeply unsustainable as regards the question of the representation of the local government party. I kindly ask the Minister to explain why this is the case and at the same time to explain why there are no specialists in psychology, psychiatry (the bell) or other representatives who are specialists in this council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u237	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak on behalf of the Coalition Poland Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u238	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The government project is theoretically simple and clear. It concerns the establishment of a National Anti-Addictment Centre through the merger of the National Office for the Prevention of Drug Addiction and the National Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems. But when it gets into its content, it makes a lot of observations. One of the first observations is that the project is full of words of concentration, center and other synonyms of the word centralization. The draft law proposes changes in the establishment of voivodship and municipal programmes in the area of prevention of addictions. The authors of the Act indicate that actions taken by local self-government units, especially at municipal level, are also an important source of policy on the consolidation of prevention and resolution of addiction issues in one organizational unit. I believe that the government is unnecessarily interfering with local and regional drug policy rather than focusing on coordination with the ministries, ministries responsible for education, science, sport or, of course, health. Here is the key to a proper national anti-drug policy, not to interfere in specific, characterisation-oriented local and regional communities, prevention and prevention policies. What is important from the point of view of the new institution in relations with municipalities and voivodships is an appropriate and efficient system for reporting and transmitting relevant data, results and conclusions from the strategies implemented, which should serve as an object in shaping national policy on addiction issues. Another issue is the purpose of this supervision of the establishment of voivodship programmes, in particular municipal programmes. Will there sometimes be provisions interfering further in the relevant new regulations, e.g. on concessions and related charges? I find it difficult to point out that the merger of Ww. the institution has also created new obligations for the new institution, because it does not seem to belong to them by force in the so-called law. building a system for monitoring alcoholic problems occurring in Poland. In my opinion, the creation of a new institution should be driven by the creation of a new quality, new ways of dealing with problems, new mechanisms and instruments, and above all by supporting local and regional counterparts. What do we got? In my opinion, the unwitting administrative merger of two institutions. Once again, the lack of prior consultation is a factor in the process of the government project. What an important element is the pre-consultation of the legislative process, for example, a report on mandatory consultations, which has been taken into account, for example. comments of the Polish Association of Integration Psychotherapy, which pointed out chaoticly mentioned tasks of the centre - in terms of their scope, level of detail, order, repetition - in which tasks related to e.g. with: helping adults, families, family members, partners of addicts; continuing by 2024 the system of training specialists in psychotherapy addictions and drug therapy instructors previously carried out separately in PARPA and in the national office; lack of regulation on the path of preparation and certification of supervisors in the field of psychotherapy addiction; lack of regulation on permanent cadence bodies, experts at the national centre - consulting and consulting training and projects; lack of establishment of a committee of professional responsibility. E.g. Polish Association of Integration Psychotherapy drew attention to this. And how much more interesting comments could we have if we had a pre-consultation? The question is, will it be safe to say that the new institution will be better, more efficient and stronger than the separate office and agency after the merger of the PARPA and the national office? There is very little to justify the arguments, but there is no argument at all that the effect of the action will not deteriorate and, I believe, the authors of this project should make it clear. I'm gonna ask questions in a series of questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u239	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Grzegorz Braun, on behalf of the Confederate Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u240	God's blessing to all who need care, care, and their carers. Here, in the High House, as usual, problems are created first to be solved, preferably administratively creating some superministers, superministers, new institutions. Here, of course, the trend, from our point of view, maybe even promising, is some commotion, that out of two signs one is made. On the other hand, our disbelief in the institutional solution of problems is so far gone that we must be sceptical about the project as a whole, especially since you are present with this project after 1.5, ah, almost 2 years of driving Poles, with particular emphasis on the young generation, with particular emphasis on the youngest ones, in addiction. The policy of fighting a suspected pandemic has led, ladies and gentlemen, to tell you this every therapist, pediatrician, psychiatrist, to rise a wave of depression, neurotic, ach, and social problems - an increase in suicide attacks among minors by 1/3. And now you're leaving the treatment center, preventing addiction. Stop the activities that generate disease, misery, tragedy and pathology. Stop hurting, and maybe then we won't all have to help so much. We'll take this project to the workshop, we'll propose at least one amendment to it. Since the first point is about creating health and social attitudes conducive to the prevention of risky behaviour and preventing addiction and the health and social consequences of addiction, you know, maybe we'll just include as a social amendment a project: Stop LGBT plus, which here late last night was proceded, precisely because people who have been in trouble with behavioral addictions have to be treated with due care. They need to be helped, they need to be given treatment instead of promoting their illness. So (The bell) a good way to make the project: Stop LGBTQ etc., plus, however, is procedated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u241	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Maximowicz on behalf of the Polish 2050 wheel.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u242	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The issue of addiction is, of course, very complex and government or local government institutions themselves will certainly not solve this problem, it is necessary to act together, practically as a whole of society. But there is no doubt that coordinating bodies are very important and it is difficult to consider as the wrong direction for strategic assumptions to consolidate action. The project to establish a single national centre as a result of the merger of the National Office for the Prevention of Drug Addiction and the National Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems is intended to increase the efficiency of the activities carried out by both entities. In addition, the new institution is to deal with all other types of addiction. Municipal and voivodship programmes in the area of drug prevention are also to be integrated. This can certainly help implement municipal local government programs, because the problem also concerns areas as close as possible to residents and communities. The objectives of the project are credible, so it is worthwhile to support it and to continue to work on it. And one of the comments that comes up in the examination of the proposal should be discussed in the committee. Namely, it is one representative of the current Minister of Education and Science in the Council for Action against Addiction. This ministry is now managing two departments, and each of them has a completely different specificity in the context of addictions. It is also unclear whether a decision will not be taken in the future to assign these divisions to two ministries. Education at school, preschool, certainly has different characteristics and should be very clearly taken into account, as well as the specifics of higher education. Thank you very much. We support the transfer to further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u243	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Polish Case Circle, Mr Andrzej Sosnierz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u244	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Presented to the bill, it is theoretically difficult to accuse. The design is correct, the idea itself seems right. Theoretically. But I would like to point out that many theoretically good ideas later do not work in practice. And I am surprised that the Left also supports this project, because in left-wing thinking there is always such an assumption that if we create a state institution, a central institution, it will be good. Socialism theoretically has good intentions, but in practice it doesn't work, and it always falls apart sooner or later. [[Applause]] So, basically, this bill trumps the noble thought of making things better. But will it get better? I noticed that, most often, the inability of someone managing to coordinate different entities - in this case the state, the government - is replaced by centralisation. Instead of coordinating, we're gonna work less hard because there's gonna be centralization, there's gonna be one director who can bet on the rug. Does the experience so far - as I stress once again - seem theoretically correct - show that the NFZ centralised works better than the NFZ and decentralised cash registers? No, this is the deepening collapse of this institution. Is the centralized health centre Does that work better than before? No. The health department was stunned in the epidemic, just like the health services. So with interest we will listen to what arguments have convinced us that once again the centralization idea will succeed this time. Because, once again, they still seem right, and the whole world is returning to these socialist solutions every now and then. Is that all there is to it? I have read with interest the criteria to be met by the future director of this centre, and it turns out that it actually has little achievements to show, apart from such an enigmatic opinion, that it needs to know what it is directing. It says he must have knowledge. But how's that? After all, each of us has some knowledge of drug addiction and each of us knows something about alcohol, so such a soft criterion may be prepared for someone who will know nothing or nothing at all. Everyone once laid out a glass, and at that point they could show some knowledge about the object of the action. So here, these criteria for selecting a director are already causing me some distrust. Perhaps in the course of legislative work (the bell) this can be clarified and strengthened in some way. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u245	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mrs Józef Rzczurek-Żelazko from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u246	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thanks very much to the Ministry of Health for preparing this project, because these new solutions will make it much easier to support people who suffer from addiction. To date, these two institutions have carried out independent activities related to alcohol prevention and prevention of addiction to other substances, including drugs. We know that addictions are very often cross at present. It is very rare for patients to be directly addicted to one substance. It is very often the case that if we are addicted to alcohol, there is also an addiction to medicines or other substances at the same time. Therefore, there was no point in maintaining two institutions that carry out comparable tasks. At the moment, this concentration of forces and resources, opportunities, also potential (the intellectual bell) will certainly favour better implementation of these tasks. This will also simplify the functioning of local governments, because... Thank you. Thank you, Member. ... municipalities or voivodships created two programs, and at the moment it will be one coherent program that will certainly solve these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u247	Thank you very much, Member. Mr. Michael Szczerba, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u248	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, the question will be about this new institution, which is to be created by a combination of two existing ones, including one very experienced in the implementation of anti-alcoholic programmes. Do we, Minister, have precise forecasts of the running costs of this institution in the years to come, in particular as regards recruitment of employees, on organisational, financial issues? I would also like to make sure that all human potential of the existing national agency in the new institution will be exploited. These are very important things. We need to continue, and unfortunately we have the experience of PiS changes, when outstanding experts running programs were disposed of and incompetent people came to replace them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like this confirmation from you today before the vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u249	Thank you. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u250	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, I would very much ask the Minister to answer me in writing what is the real purpose of duplicateing institutions dealing with twin themes. Will the money from the budget be spent on field work, or just on creating another centralized unit whose main task is to organize the work of field units, which so far are doing great without creating this cap from unification? I also kindly ask for information on how the potential of the units that are connected will be used in the new unit. Once again, I kindly ask the Minister to respond in writing. Thank you. [[Mr Józef Rzczurek-Żelazko: You have to read the project.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u251	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland, and the questions announced.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u252	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! You can, of course, create more institutions, put them within the reach of the central authority, just the question of whether this will be effective. Isn't it better to go towards exploiting the potential of the institutions, the human potential that already exists today? To be honest, I am astonished to see the next ideas of the Ministry of National Education managed by the already infamous - I think that not only in Poland - Minister Czarnek, who pushes various kinds of ideological offensives. Today, however, there is a natural space to start anti-addictive prevention in the youngest age among young people and to pay attention to it. I wanted to ask if it was considered, on the basis of the Ministry of National Education (the bell) to sit this type of matter. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u253	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Kulesza, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u254	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You combine two institutions into one, but these institutions simply need to be eliminated, because in these institutions, like PARPA, there is a 20th-century superstition that drug prohibition, alcohol prohibition can solve addiction problems. Well, you can't, on the contrary. This is well discussed by the report prepared by Dr. Hab. Arkadius Orphania. We have a comparison of Portugal, where hard drugs were decriminated in 2001. Difference: the number of overdose deaths decreased from 369 to 30, new cases of HIV infection - from 907 to 18, and the number of citizens deprived of liberty for drug-related crimes - from over 3,000. to 1 000. Those are the facts. On the other hand, we have a country famous for prohibition, an ineffective fight in the context of drug prohibition, i.e. United States. This is the rate of drug overdose in the United States (Bell) per 100,000. residents. It's not working. Drug prohibition doesn't work, these institutions are to be eliminated. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u255	Thank you, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u256	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you about the anti-junction council. It is expected that this council will be attended by representatives in the rank of Secretary or Undersecretary of State in the offices of many ministers, i.e. officials in one word. The question is, why is this advice so thoughtful, so constructed? It seems that officials can do much, but when it comes to real ideas and real culpability, it is rather in the hands of those who have experience, and colloquially speaking, they ate teeth to help such people. Why is it so systematic that they will be officials and not competent people who know things that understand this world and could actually help by creating such ideas and patterns that (the bell) would have a positive effect? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u257	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u258	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You mentioned that about half of the local units are basically running two separate programs with the same people. As far as the effects are concerned, the effects are more different than the causes. Will this combination, Minister, contribute to better combating the causes of all kinds of addictions, both alcohol, drugs and drugs, as well as any other that are increasingly levelled between large cities and small municipalities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u259	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u260	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First, a brief remark to Mr Sosnier. The Left does not support centralisation and the phenomenon of just decisions from the ministerial chair. This project is supported only because at the level of municipalities, associations of dispersion, alcoholism, drug addiction, behavioral addiction, etc. They're finally gonna be integrated. Because of that. But let's get to the questions. Art. 10 and 11 on qualifications. Art. 10 aligns a specialist's certificate in the field of psychotherapy addiction with a diploma confirming the acquisition of a specialist title, i.e. these are equivalent documents. But according to the article. 11 the person holding the certificate should pass the PES exam before the State Examination Board. Is this justified and should it not be done without an exam? And second question. Can people in the course of a specialization (the bell) work with a patient, i.e. providing benefits? Because when you read the bill straight, they won't be able to do it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u261	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u262	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In March 2018 in the Łódź voivodship we built a regional center for diagnosis and FASD therapy for children and carers, parents. This is an optional action for the local government, optional, but nevertheless we have created at the Regional Centre for Social Policy such a centre, which is still of great interest today, many people help. That's a question for the Ministry. Whether under the new centre or other activities of the Ministry you intend to create a network of this type of public or local government, which results from the statutory obligation, FASD diagnosis and therapy centres that can really help many children and their carers, their parents? Because we see how big this is unfortunately still a problem in Polish society. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u263	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u264	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The establishment of the National Anti-Dust Centre is a very sensible step and direction, but I wanted to ask, Minister, what it looks like downstairs, in county Poland. Do Children and Youth Have there the same access to prevention programs as young people and children from larger centres? The second question also arises. You said here that this law will also regulate the records of addictive psychotherapists. Psychologists came to my office several times, who claim that such quasi-helpfuls, quasi-psychotics and patients who use the services of these offices, often with even greater disorders and the need for therapy go to professional psychotherapists. I wanted to ask you in this context about regulations regarding the profession of psychologist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u265	Thank you very much. Katarzyna Lubnauer is not here. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u266	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I don't understand the composition of the council. Why was there only one seat for a local government representative in the Council and no room for addiction specialists? It follows that the council will be mainly political and not substantive. But what I really care about is whether this centralization really improves the situation of addicts or improves the situation of families who experience violence. Are there more places in psychiatric hospitals for people who are addicted to alcohol, drugs? Will there really be places where detox is carried out in the wards? Will families and children of addicts have access to psychological care and support? Because that's what's missing all the time. Very noticeable (The Bell) is the lack of places primarily in psychiatric wards. Even if someone has a court order leading them to treatment, it's still hard to find a place in the ward. When will the Ministry finally deal with this and when will it finally be a normal situation, when the addict will be treated and the family will not suffer? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u267	Thank you. Please, Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u268	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The problem of alcoholism and drug addiction is indeed a serious issue, the cause of the drama of many people, many families, so I would like to ask specific questions. What are the government's plans to increase health protection in the fight against drug abuse and alcoholism? The centralization and merger of institutions alone will not solve anything. Does the government have data on the scale of the problem, the dynamics, growth, decline, the number of addictions? What is cooperation in this area, especially with the Ministry of Education, but also with the Ministry of Home Affairs? Does the government have an overview of what activities are transferred from alcoholic funds? Is it planned to change the funding possibilities for certain tasks in this area? Finally, does the government have research on the relationship between mental health protection and the problem of alcoholism and drug addiction? It seems that this last issue is crucial. I would also ask for a written reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u269	Thank you very much, sir. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u270	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Why are you politicizing this organ? There are no solutions in the field of psychotherapy. What happened? Did you forget about that? I have a question: As announced, do people with a specialist in psychotherapy of addictions and persons with a specialist in psychotherapy of addictions in this field perform a medical profession? What's it like? You are establishing municipal and voivodship alcoholic problem solving programs. After all, the municipal committees for solving alcohol problems work well. Are they not working well enough? What are the reservations about these committees if you're setting up a new institution? What works well (the bell), you want to fix. In my view, it is unnecessary to create a new institution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u271	Thank you very much, Member. The last question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u272	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The problem of addiction will continue to grow. We're gonna have a bigger problem with this. Unfortunately, I believe that this applies not only to Poland but also to the whole world. Given what is happening today, the state of Polish psychiatry, when it comes to caring for children and young people, is quite tragic. I answer three solutions. First of all, prevention, prevention and prevention again. Prophylaxis in schools. We need to get schools into this very strongly. The second element is cooperation, cooperation with local governments, because local governments run schools and their impact is very important. And the third thing: professionals. Ladies and gentlemen, the idea is for these bodies to include people who have knowledge (the Bell), skills and experience, because only in this way will we be able to do something about this problem. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u273	Thank you very much. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Minister Maciej Miłkowski to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u274	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank the clubs very warmly for agreeing, in principle, to continue and to propose that Members will be actively involved in this work at the next stages and possibly present proposals for amendments. I would like to thank the Minister, Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, who initiated this project, which I took over. I think it is very right, and I agree with Mr Grabczuk on the fact that this problem will grow and we must be prepared for a much wider range of work. And that's the purpose of this bill. E.g. It is about integrating people who know about it, that is, professionals. There's been a lot of questions about who's gonna be working in this unit. According to the justification of the Act and in accordance with its provisions, it will be used by those who are currently working there. Under the law, these persons become employees of the new institution, i.e. they will be employees of these two institutions, while the director of the new institution under the law will be the director of the National Office for the Prevention of Drug Addiction, and the deputy director will be the person who is the director of the State Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems. There's been a lot of questions about staff. We do not assume any politicisation, because these people are currently employees and will still remain employees. It's very clearly written in the bill. There was also a question about costs. They asked why it was a connection, centralization. Well, here is the situation - the issue of two different institutions was raised here - that in these two institutions there are a total of about 45 people working according to the period. So this is a relatively small institution and, as has been said here, a similar range of activities. We can clearly see that there should be a connection. Many questions have been related to the issue of politicising the council, which is currently set up by anti-drugs individuals and has exactly the same composition. As regards the tasks of the current Council for the Prevention of Drug Addiction, which I have the honour of being the chairman of as the person supervising this scope of affairs in the Ministry of Health, this council is indeed a political body. The purpose of this Council is to act on the basis of current legislation and possibly propose different legislative and enforcement changes. Of course, we completely disagree with the Confederate Member on the fact that drugs should be available in every store and that this is the best prevention and best action. So don't expect anything to change in this regard. [[Manipulation.]] Okay, so I realized that you believe that prohibition and non-acceptance of drugs is inappropriate and that we should change the scope of action. With regard to the scope of the Board's activities, the Board shall set up problem teams consisting of specialists in the field concerned. He was, for example. appointing a team for pseudoephedrine-related measures. There is now a comprehensive team working on reform of addiction medicine and the preparation of specific criteria in this area. Currently, we have a single basket of psychiatry and addiction health services, and we are therefore looking at how reforms could possibly be carried out. This team works very intensively and is already completing work to present proposals to the Ministry of Health and the Council. So the board works with experts, as I said, and is in exactly the same composition as today. So that there is no politicisation here, because nothing will change in this respect. Only the scope of the tasks has been changed and the name has been changed. The question of the purpose of the merger, as Mr Szopiński said, and the issue of efficiency and the two types of financial resources that the institution receives. Firstly, these are measures - as in the case of each institution - for remuneration, and secondly, for tasks which are transferred in competitions for different purposes, including from the National Health Programme. In total, the amount of funds available within these two institutions amounts to about PLN 30 million. As far as cooperation with local authorities is concerned, local authorities are always preparing plans for action to combat alcoholism. Parpa hasn't interfered with these plans so far. At the same time, only the report is submitted by local authorities. This institution coordinates and therefore needs to know how the statutory tasks imposed on local governments are carried out, how the statutory resources spent, which are intended directly for local authorities, in terms of prevention and prevention of addiction are spent. As far as the qualifications of specialists are concerned, it was mentioned here that specialists are currently not included in the medical profession, as are psychologists, and are not treated as workers in medical positions. It was also said that we expected that the law on other medical professions would be immediately prosecuted. We are at the final stage of the agreement and it will be submitted for consultation. In fact, this is one of the most important laws, which brings together a system related to medical professions. Some medical professions have their own laws, two of which we voted in the previous term. This one is a complement to other medical professions. This is where you will find issues related to addiction specialists. Those specialists who currently have the title of specialist and have achieved it in accordance with these three modes, also after the amendment of the law will have this title. The question was: Why do they have to take a specialized exam? Those who have completed their education, but will not yet be specialists, simply have to get a degree, although this education is important and have passed this exam before. Besides, there are transitional provisions that, by 2025, those who have started training as part of specialisation will continue to implement them in the old way. Mr Grzegorz Klimczak asked about the extension of a well-functioning FAS self-government centre in the Łódź district. In this respect, PARPA cooperates and works very closely. Training for doctors in recognition of this team is being disseminated. A lot of information, a lot of training in this area is being conducted. And so far there are no plans to make such centres mandatory under the law in every local government. But at the same time it is very strong to participate, increasing participation in training of medical professionals, doctors in this field. Mr Rychlik asked whether there would be equal access to prevention of addiction in individual local governments. Of course, every self-government is independent. There are statutory tasks, but every government takes it a little differently. It is not possible to execute everything by order of individual local authorities, as expected by the state here. This independence is very important. About the question... In addition, two questions were in writing: Mr Szopiński, and in particular Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, who asked a very broad question. I think that the answer will be presented on several pages, because these were practically cross-cutting questions, which need to be answered in very detail. This will be prepared. [[Thank you.]] Of course, I agree, as I said at the outset, that the problem will grow. The tasks of the new institution are to strengthen the prevention, prevention of these addictions. Of course we'll be working on it. Of course, our assumption is that this institution will be more effective in carrying out tasks, partly in administrative terms, but knowledge of individuals will also be important to a large extent. We believe that if they cooperate, this scope will significantly increase and the implementation of the tasks will be more effective. Besides, now we're getting these new ways of addicting. We can still see that addiction to new online technologies is very strong. The Ministry of Health has prepared pilot programmes, but this institution will certainly also deal with new addictions. It will be well known that this is the only institution that has in its tasks the issue of addictions, prevention and prevention of addictions, with which we have an ever greater problem. We all know that, we see it very strongly in schools, especially among children, and we will work very closely with the education system. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u275	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law amending the Law on Mental Health and certain other laws contained in print No. 1631, to the Committee on Health for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on draft resolutions on the establishment of 2022 in the Year of Ignacy Łukasiewicz (prints no. 1136, 1317, 1355 and 1548). I would like to ask Mr Piotr Babinetz to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u276	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Culture and Media about draft resolutions on the establishment of 2022 of Ignacy Łukasiewicz, prints 1136, 1317 and 1355. I think it is necessary to start by saying that the memory of Ignacy Łukasiewicz as the creator of the Polish and world oil industry is very alive in Poland. This is proved by various requests to establish the year 2022 as the Year of Ignacy Łukasiewicz. The first such request was received by the Marshals as early as March 2020 by Mr Ryszard Rabski, President of the Fund for the Petroleum and Gas Industry Museum. Ignacy Łukasiewicz in Bóbrka. Mr Ryszard Rabski, together with Mrs Barbara Olejarz, runs a very important institution of culture - a museum in Bóbrka in the place where Ignacy Łukasiewicz opened the world's first oil mine in 1854. Since the beginning of 2021, further proposals for the establishment of the year Ignacy Łukasiewicz from the President of PKN Orlen Mr.Daniel Obajt, from the President of PGNiG S.A. Mr. Paweł Majewski, President of the PGNiG S.A. Foundation. Ignacy Łukasiewicz, Mrs Karolina Dłuska, from the members of the club Law and Justice: Marshal Marek Kuchciński, Mr Krzysztof Sobolewski and Mr Piotr Babinetz, then from the Mayor of Gorlic Mr Rafał Kukli, President of the Association of the Petroleum Industry at the Scanning of "Magdalen" in Ropica Polish Mr Kazimierz Dudek, and finally the application from Prof. Piotr Koszelnik, Director of the Rzeszow University of Technology. Ignacy Łukasiewicz, together with the earlier resolution of the Senate of the Rzeszow University of Technology, as well as a motion from the Marshal of the Podkarpackie Voivodeship, Mr Władysław Ortył and a member of the club Law and Justice of Kazimierz Moskal. Ms Elżbieta Witek, Marshal of the Polish Sejm, also supported this initiative. Finally, draft resolutions of individual clubs were received, maybe not so many clubs. what groups, i.e. the Polish People's Party, later the Civic Platform and Law and Justice. Finally, the Marshal of the Sejm sent draft resolutions to the Committee on Culture and Media. The Committee on Culture and Media addressed these projects at its meeting on 14 September 2021. As a result, a project was created, which contains entries from the project of the club Law and Justice, the most important fragments of the write from the project of the club PSL, on whose behalf Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak from Podkarpacie acted. An important amendment was introduced, which was tabled by Mr Marek Rzęsa from the Civic Platform, also from Podkarpacie. This shows how alive until today, especially in Podkarpacie, is the memory of Ignacy Łukasiewicz and his work. During the work following completion of the project, a joint project was created, which was unanimously adopted and recommended to the High Sejm by the Committee on Culture and Media. The resulting project ultimately reads as follows: The resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on the establishment of the year 2022 of Ignacy Łukasiewicz. In March 2022 it is the 200th anniversary of the birth, and in January the 140th anniversary of the death of Ignacy Łukasiewicz, the creators of the world oil industry. It belongs to an honorable group of Poles whose activity has marked a great positive impact on the development of our Homeland, as well as the whole world. Ignacy Łukasiewicz was born in Zaduszniki near Mielce, a poor noble family with patriotic traditions. After his father's death, a participant in the Kościuszkowski Uprising, due to the financial situation, he had to abandon his junior high school in Rzeszów and take up his job as a pharmacist. He developed his knowledge and skills during his pharmaceutical studies at the Jagiellonian University and in Vienna. He worked in Lviv, working at Piotr Mikolash's pharmacy, where he and John Zehe separated kerosene from it in the process of distillation of crude oil. He also worked in Gorlice, Jasle and Krosnie. In Krośnieński County, in Bóbrka, working with Titus Trzejeski and Karol Klobassa-Zrencki, he created the world's first oil mine in 1854. In turn in Ulaszowice, in Kęczany, in Polanka and later in Chorokówka he started a refinery of oil. As a creator of the oil industry, Ignacy Łukasiewicz overcame the Americans and Romanians. He was also an inventor of the oil lamp. In 1853, the first night operation in the hospital in Łyczak in Lviv was performed under the light of the lamp he constructed. He died in Chorkowka and was buried in Zrotin near Krosno. Ignacy Łukasiewicz, together with his sister Emilia Stacherska, engaged in independence activities, for conspiracy during the Cracow Uprising was imprisoned by Austrians. He financially supported the January Uprising and later provided shelter and work for its participants. He was also a Member of the National Sejm and Councillor of Krosno County Council, headed the Society for the Care and Development of Industry and Mining in Galicia. He did a lot of social functions. As a great philanthropist, he founded schools, hospitals, churches, roads and bridges. He founded the Advanced Society in Krosno. He organised welfare funds, which were the first such institutions in Europe to secure workers in the event of sickness or invalidity. He was the first one to set up Bóbka's money in the mine, a modern social security system for workers. He also took care of the development of education and culture and the education of oil workers. For his charity, Pope Pius IX gave him the title of papal chamberlain and awarded him the Order of Saint Gregory the Great. As the creator and organizer of the oil industry Ignacy Łukasiewicz led to the development of Podkarpacie, and gradually a significant part of the Polish lands under partitions, creating a lot of jobs and raising the living standards of the inhabitants. Its numerous successors - oil industry led to the flourishing of this branch of the Polish economy. Today, many chemical, cosmetic and modern industries are based on the process of distillation of crude oil initiated by Łukasiewicz. Today, too, he is the patron of the oil and gas and refining industry in Poland, and his legacy should be strongly and continuously developed and promoted in Europe and the world. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland, especially due to the great and extraordinary merits of Ignacy Łukasiewicz for the industry and economy of Poland, as well as his commitment to fighting for independence of the Homeland and taking care of employees, establishes the year 2022 as the Year of Ignacy Łukasiewicz. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u277	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr Babinetz, Law and Justice will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u278	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Here actually the entire CV and achievements of Ignacy Łukasiewicz were presented. All I can add is that he was born on 8 March 1822 and died on 7 January 1882. I also want to say a few things about Ignacy Łukasiewicz and his successors when it comes to independence, because I think this is an important issue too. Ignacy Łukasiewicz has been very involved in independence conspiracy since the early 1940s. The 19th century, especially in Rzeszów. During the Cracow Uprising his sister Emilia Stacherska was also active. Between 1846 and 1847 Łukasiewicz was imprisoned by Austrians. Later, while working in the mine in Bóbrka, which was established in 1854, and a distillery, and later in the refinery in Chorkowka, which was established in 1865, gave refuge to January insurgents and was willing to employ them in the oil industry. They were among others. Henry Walter, Adolf Jabłoński, Juliusz Noth and Zenon Suszycki. They had a great impact on the technical development of mines and refineries, and thus the expansion of the oil industry in Podkarpacie. In recent years, Łukasiewicz collaborated with a prominent oil industrialist and political activist, as well as former January insurgent August Gorayski's coat of arms Korczak. Around 1890, when Władysław Wachal became director of the refinery in Chorkowka, he began his conspiracy activities among its employees, creating a White Eagle organization and the Żuava Union. They helped him with this, among other things. younger brother Józef Wachal and Stanisław Iwański. These independence works continued in Krosno. In 1905 the refinery from Chorkówka was moved here as the oil factory of Valerian Stawiarski and the Company. In 1913, on the initiative of Stanisław Iwanski, a branch of the Shooting Union was established at the oil refinery in Krosno. In fact, later officers such as Stefan Torma or very well deserved for Poland fought for independence for several decades Marian Ocetkiewicz, then murdered by the Germans in Auschwitz or Jan Szczurek-Cergowski, who for a moment was the chairman of the Board of the General Association of Freedom and Independence. They, of course, also fought in the Polish Legions and in the war against the Bolsheviks. Wit Sulimirski was a very important oil industrialist in Krosnieński's territory. He and his entire family worked in the oil industry under the influence of Ignacy Łukasiewicz. The son of Wit Sulimirski Witold died in a winning charge against the Bolsheviks in the battle of Zaslav in Volyn in September 1920. In June 1914 Krosno shooting troops, including the exercises of the shooting unions of the Rzeszów, Kraków and Iłowski districts, observed in Krosno chief Józef Piłsudski. He then visited the refinery of kerosene in Krosno, the headquarters of the Sagittarius and the house of the director of Władysław Wachal. Thus, the seed of independence sown in Krosnieński by Ignacy Łukasiewicz brought to Krosn Józef Piłsudski. His merits are also great in the work of independence of Poland. In Podkarpacie, and I think that scientific conferences, meetings for young people, Internet promotions are already planned throughout Poland, and films about Ignacy Łukasiewicz (Dzwonek), Mariana Dłużynski and other creators of the gas industry are being created. I think that the year of Ignacy Łukasiewicz will contribute to the fact that such activities will be carried out with even greater intensity next year throughout Poland. International meetings will also take place with Americans, Romanians and Canadians, those who later developed the oil industry like Ignacy Łukasiewicz. Law and Justice gladly supports the resolution on the adoption of the year 2022 of Ignacy Łukasiewicz. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u279	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Marek Rząsa, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u280	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition on the establishment of the year 2022 of Ignacy Łukasiewicz will start with a slightly unusual year, because of the task of asking: What is the connection between medicines and pharmaceutical products, toys, televisions, computers, glues and paints, fibres and plastics, explosives, bridges, roads, cosmetics, tyres, means of transport from sea to road, ending with aviation? Each of these surrounding objects exists thanks to raw materials, which is the foundation of modern civilization, technology and economy, which is essential for the world economy and, above all, one of the most important energy raw materials. It is also an important factor in shaping international economic, social and political relations, as we have seen in the history of the world, even in times of energy and fuel crises. Of course, this global and timeless raw material is oil. And what kind of person does this liquid fossil have in common? Naturally and of course with our distinguished compatriot, the inhabitants of Galicia and Podkarpacie Ignace Łukasiewicz, the pioneer of the world oil industry, the discoverer of oil conversion processes, and finally the constructor of the world's first oil lamp. He was a student of the Jagiellonian University and a graduate of the University of Vienna. Pharmacy, chemist, entrepreneur, philanthropist are the most frequently mentioned professions and types of his professional and social activities. However, the work, scientific discoveries, inventions, constructions did not obscure him with the most important issue for Poles of his time - the struggle for independence and freedom of his homeland. Ignacy Łukasiewicz was extremely involved, including financially, in national and revolutionary activities. We are talking about the conspiracy activity for which he was imprisoned and about the public, carried out in the framework of the execution of the mandate of a member of the Galician National Sejm and a councilman of Krosnieński County. The age in which he was given to live was not only ahead of the discoveries of oil that were important to the world. He was the forerunner of a number of social and cultural solutions, among others. social security for workers or the creation of bailouts and loans. He financed the construction of roads and bridges. He was a founder of new schools, hospitals, churches. He considered education for children and adults to be a historic necessity. Even though he wasn't a teacher, he carried a piece of education under the Podkarpackie roofs and roofs. Since we include Ignacy Łukasiewicz as an honorary group of prominent Poles whose activities have had a positive impact on the development of Poland and the whole world, and we appreciate his commitment to fighting for independence of his homeland and taking care of our fellow countrymen, the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will support the proposed project to establish Ignacy Łukasiewicz in 2022. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u281	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u282	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Left will vote with great satisfaction and pride for the establishment of Ignacy Łukasiewicz in 2022. It was a great Pole, a European, a world-class scientist, a socialist, an independent activist. He lived by pursuing his passions, but did not forget the welfare of others, especially the poorer ones. In the process of distillation of crude oil, he secreted kerosene. He built the first oil lamp that revolutionized the world back then and helped people very much in their daily lives. As we know, in 1853, under the light of oil lamps, the first night operation was performed at the hospital in Lviv. On the initiative of Łukasiewicz the first oil mine in Bóbrka was established and in 1857 the first refinery in the world was established in Klęczany. For his independence activity Łukasiewicz was arrested twice. He also preceded his era in social activity. Organized among others. welfare funds, which were the first institutions of this type in Europe to secure workers in the event of sickness or invalidity. He took care of education, initiated the construction of hospitals, planting fruit trees. Ignacy Łukasiewicz should be out loud. It is our duty to promote the actions and achievements of this man. Marshal of Podkarpackie Voivodship, President of Rzeszów City and Rzeszow University of Technology rector took action to posthumously mark Ignacy Łukasiewicz with the Order of the White Eagle. In this way they want to pay tribute to this great man, patriot, socialist and one of the most outstanding Polish scientists. We hope that this award will be awarded. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u283	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u284	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! After receiving the resolution of the Senate of the Rzeszow University of Technology. Ignacy Łukasiewicz I wrote a draft resolution to make 2022 the year Ignacy Łukasiewicz. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party I submitted this project to the marshal's staff. I am pleased that today, together with our fellow Members, we can proudly say that next year will be the year of Ignacy Łukasiewicz. This is particularly important for the Podkarpackie land, but also for the oil industry. Ignacy Łukasiewicz created the foundations of the oil industry, without which we cannot imagine life today. Besides, he was a patriot, he was helping people, it's a big deal. I think it's a good opportunity to promote knowledge of this great man. In Podkarpacie there are many institutions and many schools, which bear the name Ignacy Łukasiewicz. The Rzeszow University of Technology has been mentioned, but I will allow myself to mention and greet participants of other schools and institutions. It is a public primary school no. 2 in Brzesk, a team of chemical schools in Bydgoszcz, a primary school in Chorkowka, a primary school in Bóbrka, a museum in Bóbrka, a primary school in Czarna, in Czechowice-Dziedzice - it is not Podkarpacie - a complex of schools in Dębno, a primary school in Krosno, a team of schools in Nowa Sarzyn, a primary school in Garki, a primary school in Padu National, it is a mielecka land where Ignacy Łukasiewicz was born, a primary school in Jodłówka, in Ropience, in Gorlicach, in Humnicki, in Cieszacin Wielki in the Jarosławski district, an energy institute im. Ignacy Łukasiewicz, Podkarpackie Science Centre, the primary school. Ignacy Łukasiewicz in Jasłe (The Bell), Kobylance, Węglowka, Sanoku, Pakoszówka. There's a lot of schools. I took the liberty of mentioning only those who proudly wear banners with the image of Ignacy Łukasiewicz. Draw close to the end, sir. Yes, Your Marshal, last word. The next year will be an opportunity to deepen the knowledge and honor this great Pole, a great explorer, a great hero. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u285	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u286	God bless all oilmen, industrialists, inventors! Ladies and gentlemen! We applaud all actions that serve to remind that Poles did not goose, that they did not fall under the tail, that it was in Podkarpacie, thanks to the invention of Ignacy Łukasiewicz 100 years ago that real oil workers crashed in American style, driving real rollers-royce. These are historical facts, they warm the Polish heart, but in the High House we have today, ladies and gentlemen, a show of hypocrisy. After all, if such a person were born today, monopolists, lobbyists, candle makers would prevent him from spreading his invention - the oil lamp. Today we have patent laws. Maybe they'd buy them and hide the oil lamp somewhere deep in the safe. You on one left and on the other left would kill Ignacy Łukasiewicz's activities by means of a green order. Under the pretext of caring for some rare species, you would announce a program to put out oil in Podkarpacie and wherever your power would reach. You'd be screaming that this is a terrible devastation of the homeland landscape. You'd say some terrible things and no oil wells would grow in this pioneering pit. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Confederation, we cordially greet the Rzeszow University of Technology and others mentioned by a distinguished colleague of universities, schools and institutions. It hurts us that in creating these institutions, you stick the name of an outstanding, extraordinary man, undoubtedly a Polish patriot, to various spiders for smart guys. It goes on for example. About the Centre of Łukasiewicz. Mr. Evice Prime Minister Gowin can no longer draw from these resources, but he will draw from them someone else. Pharmacy. My God, in modern times, as you call it, the regulation of this industry Ignacy Łukasiewicz would not even have a chance to schedule at any pharmacy in Łancut or Rzeszów, because your regulations also close this profession. Young entrepreneurs, darts, smart people have to look for jobs in the country instead of in the country. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the one hand, it is a happy, touching moment. Shine, Lord, above his soul. On the other hand, it is a show of hypocrisy that the Confederation will not join. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u287	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Michał Grammar, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u288	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Of course, we will support the resolution on the announcement of the year 2022 of Ignacy Łukasiewicz. My previous speakers presented his resume in such detail that I don't actually have much to add. Maybe it's just that he's been sitting on the benches of the Galician Sejm for five years. Sometimes the success of a brilliant invention is decided by chance. Lukasiewicz is a good example. After all, he was an apothecary, and at first he saw the drug in the nafite. Only a business failure in this field opened the door to the oil industry to the glory of Polish science. I am very proud that the name Łukasiewicz survived in the name and concept of the Polish research network. To be honest, I had some doubts when this project was announced, but not because of the character of an outstanding Pole, but because of the intensity of the diacritic signs found in this name. When I remembered that the German counterpart of this network was called Fraunhofer, I gave up my doubts. We will support this draft resolution. He's good. This great Pole really deserves the highest kind of commemoration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u289	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to subscribe to the question? If not, I'm closing the list. First, Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u290	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very happy that we can proceed on this project and admire this person. My previous speakers have said a lot about her. I would like to draw attention to one thing. Lukasiewicz didn't inherit anything. He had to figure it all out on his own. He's in a very difficult position. He had to go to work. He had to study. He didn't get his degree until he was 30. This aspect of his life is very important. I would like us as Members to talk about him, because this is an example of a man who, myself, would say, from a poor landownership, today we would say: somewhere from low-income families, we could become a beautiful figure, a patriot, an outstanding scientist and a man who created the entire oil industry in Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u291	Thank you, sir. Mr Wiesław Boj, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u292	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The establishment by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland of 2022 of Ignacy Łukasiewicz becomes a fact. In this way we want to pay tribute to the great patriot and socialist, one of the most outstanding Polish scientists, whose breakthroughs contributed to the global development of the oil industry. The project was preceded by a great interest of the Podkarpackie Voivodship and scientific communities. The Management Board of Podkarpackie Voivodeship has set up an honorary committee of celebrations and has planned many projects to celebrate the 200th anniversary of the birth and 140th anniversary of the death of Ignacy Łukasiewicz. There is another initiative of the Marshal of Podkarpackie Voivodeship, the president of Rzeszów, the rector of the Rzeszow University of Technology, to mark Ignacy Łukasiewicz posthumously with the Order of the White Eagle by the President of the Republic of Poland. A letter of intent in this matter (the bell) I am handing over to your marshal and I ask you to support this action. With the support of the Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the President of the Republic of Poland, the request of self-governments will be met. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u293	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u294	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The initiative to establish the year 2022 Ignacy Łukasiewicz is worthy of recognition because he is the patron of the oil and refinery industry in Poland and his legacy should be promoted in Europe and the world. This year can be used for various educational activities. In Bydgoszcz, for example. The Chemical Schools Complex works perfectly. Ignacy Łukasiewicz. Therefore, I would like to appeal from this place to Minister Czarnek for the development of a programme for the year Łukasiewicz for schools bearing his name, a programme which will include the integration of these schools, funds for competitions, sports competitions, grants for research equipment and equipment of chemical laboratories, trips to Polish refineries and trips along the routes of Ignacy Łukasiewicz. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Dear Minister, in case you've forgotten, I will be the one to address you in this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u295	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u296	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, for many cities, for many towns and regions in Poland, the name Łukasiewicz is extremely important, among others. with the fact that where the oil industry came into being, it was an opportunity for the dynamic development of these regions. This is also the case in our region, in Czechowice-Dziedzice. This is also witnessed by one of the schools named Łukasiewicz, who is the patron of this school. Therefore, I have a question for the government and I would very much ask for a written reply. I am sure that this year will be a moment when both history and the achievements of Łukasiewicz will constitute a certain, I would say, events will be an important element of this year. Will there be financial resources in the budget for the implementation of such tasks? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u297	Thank you very much. Please, Miss Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u298	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! As a social worker, I was happy to take the initiative to commemorate Ignacy Łukasiewicz. Ignacy Łukasiewicz enlisted in public consciousness as Ignacy's father. In the countryside, he organized municipal cash registers providing farmers with interest-free short-term loans paid out in weekly small instalments. He was borrowing money to peasants carrying oil from the mine to the refinery for the purchase and maintenance of horses and wagons. He was providing financial assistance to peasant sons taking up studies. He walked away from the forest to build houses. He treated the peasants for free. In the mine in Bóbrka he created a bracket, a prototype of today's ZUS, A 3-percent income tax secured free treatment, medication, and was 20 cents a day sick for a worker. As his fellow student Anczyc wrote: No one knows how many benefits Lukasiewicz has been giving, and he has helped to a piece of bread, for he has done as quietly and sometimes a good deed he has done to others. And that's the kind of information that should be included in school programs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u299	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice. Are you an MP? There it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u300	I'm here. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prometheus is the title of the biography of Ignacy Łukasiewicz, which is the best summary of this beautiful life story of a great, outstanding Pole, the creators of the oil industry and, above all, the Polish patriot. In 2016, I initiated as vice president of Polish Petroleum Mining and Gasworks a great social, educational program, the sixth edition of which is held this year under the auspices of PGNiG, to be like Ignacy. This program is an excellent scientific basis for all local governments, all schools that want to commemorate in 2022 and promote Ignacy Łukasiewicz's heritage, to do so. In my opinion, the Beaver mine should be a mandatory point on the map of school trips of all students from all over Poland. It is a great initiative and I am proud to be able to greet tens of thousands of employees of the PGNiG SA group in the Sejm, who continue their thought and work (The Bell) of Ignacy Łukasiewicz. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u301	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u302	There was supposed to be a question, there's a corrigendum, because this is where a venerable friend has gone to sleep in her laudation. Ignacy Łukasiewicz and counting his beautiful works of philanthropy, unforced, without the terror of the state social... You guys hate it. You hate it when people do something of their own, like no power does, no Draconian law forces them to do it. But my friend took a long shot and compared the money to the ZUS. Horrible, abominable, nothing like that. It's on the floors, ladies and gentlemen. It wasn't forced to be a part of the bro's money. It was not a hidden form of fiscal exploitation that belonged to the Brac's cash register. It was an association (the bell), a financial institution to which it was voluntary, and the profits and prospects of recovering the funds paid... Thank you very much, sir. ...were not illusory and distant, but real. So don't compare one to another.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u303	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on this motion for a resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the establishment of 2022 in the Year of Józef Mackiewicz (prints 1351 and 1600). I would like to ask Mr Piotr Babinetz to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u304	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report of the Committee on Culture and Media about the draft resolution on the establishment of 2022 by the Year of Józef Mackiewicz. The project was prepared by the club Law and Justice. In fact, it could be said that it was mostly my own, but I thank Professor Krzysztof Dybciak very warmly for the valuable comments that allowed me to complete this project. Your marshal sent him to the Committee on Culture and Media. Work was carried out on 28 September 2021. Small, stylistic adjustments were made. Then, although not with full attendance, the committee unanimously recommended that the High House adopt this draft resolution on the establishment of 2022 in the Year of Józef Mackiewicz. Perhaps it is worth adding that, before work in committee, the committee bureau, through discussion, chose, among other things. the project concerning Ignacy Łukasiewicz and the project concerning Józef Mackiewicz to this group ultimately seven projects which the High Sejm considers as projects which are ultimately intended to make seven patrons next year. I will present the draft resolution because it actually presents quite in detail, exactly the biography and achievements of Józef Mackiewicz; perhaps even more extensive and more detailed than the previous resolution presented Ignacy Łukasiewicz. The resolution of the Polish Sejm on the establishment of the year 2022 by Józef Mackiewicz. Józef Mackiewicz, one of the greatest Polish writers in history, was born in St. Petersburg on April 1, 1902. He spent his childhood and youth in Vilnius. Since January 1919, i.e. as a 17-year-old volunteer, he fought against the Bolsheviks in the Lithuanian-Belarusian Division and later at his own request - in the 13th Ulyan regiment led by the majors - the brothers Jerzy and Władysław Dąmbrowski. During that time, he met with Russian and Belarusian allies in the troops of General Stanisław Bułak-Balachowicz. In the 13th regiment he fought until victory over the Bolsheviks. After the war he studied natural sciences at universities in Warsaw and Vilnius. He began cooperation with the Vilnius magazine 'Word', edited by his older brother Stanisław Cat-Mackiewicz, and became known as a patriot of the multinational and multi-faith of the former The Grand Duchy of Lithuania. In the 1930s, his first literary works were published: novels, theatre art, a crime novel and a volume of reports entitled: "The Raiding of the Rovers." After the outbreak of World War II, when Vilnius was occupied by Lithuanians, he published the Polish daily newspaper 'Gazet Everyday' for several months. He survived the Soviet occupation in Vilnius, and after the German occupation, he refused to issue a collaborating letter in Polish. When he posted several anti-Bolshevik texts in the Daily Gound, he was accused of collaborating with the Germans. He was rescued from the conviction by the head of the Information Office and Propaganda of the District of AK Vilnius Zygmunt Andruszkiewicz and the outstanding writer and soldier Sergiusz Piasecki. After the war, he was cleared of the charge of collaboration. In May 1943, with the consent of the Polish underground authorities, he witnessed the exhumation by the Germans of the bodies of officers murdered by the Soviets in Katyn. In 1944 Józef Mackiewicz, together with his wife Barbara Toporska, fled to Warsaw and then to Cracow, where he wrote a brochure entitled: 'Optimism will not replace Poland'. Then the spouses made their way to Rome. There was a report of 'Ponary-Baza' - a shocking description of the genocide carried out by the Germans on the Jews and a report entitled 'Ponary-Baza'. 'Cathin crime in the light of documents' with the introduction of General Władysław Anders. Józef Mackiewicz also published articles in the writings: 'Information', 'Cultura', 'Wilno i Lwów' and in the Russian, Lithuanian, Ukrainian and Belarusian emigration press. In 1947, he moved to London, where he published the first book written by him in English about Soviet genocide on Poles. The Katyn Wood Murders. In 1952, he testified before the United States Congress Committee to investigate the Katyn crime. In 1955, the Mackiewiczs eventually moved to Munich, where they lived for the rest of their lives. In the following years, his most important literary works and other public texts were created, some written together with Barbara Toporska. They were mostly novels: 'Dear nowhere', 'Karerowicz', 'Contra', 'Colonel Misoyedov's case', 'Left free', as well as collections of essays and publications: 'Victory of provocation', 'Downloaders from the drawer of the Lord God', 'No need to speak out', 'In the shadow of the cross', 'The Vatican in the shadow of the red star', 'Dear Lady', 'Facts, nature and people'. In the factual layer, which Mackiewicz especially cared about, he presented the life of the inhabitants of the Polish-Lithuanian-Belarusian border against the background of breakthrough historical events and referred to the multi-national tradition of the first Polish Republic. He was an incorruptible enemy of totalitarianism, especially communism, looking for everything that could link the people of Central and Eastern Europe, including the anti-Bolshevik opposition in Russia, on the road towards the freedom of nations. From the artistic point of view, these were texts linking facts with literary fiction, containing excellent descriptions of nature and a masterful presentation of psychological motives for the action of novel heroes. He created an original model of an epic feature-documentary novel depicting a picture of reality. In many reports the writer showed the irretrievably lost East Ends of the Great Republic. His life's motto was: 'Only the truth is interesting'. Józef Mackiewicz died on January 31, and Barbara Toporska died on June 20, 1985. They were both buried in London. Mackiewicz's work was banned and almost unavailable in the Polish People's Republic. Her knowledge became possible thanks to the development of second circulation publications. Since 2002, Józef Mackiewicz has been awarded the Literary Award. His work is highly appreciated by critics and literary researchers. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland in the century of the birth of an outstanding writer - recognizing the greatness of his achievements that permanently support ideas: independence of Poland, freedom and friendly coexistence of the peoples of Central and Eastern Europe and steadfast resistance against communism, and the universal values of his literary prose - establishes the year 2022 with the Year of Józef Mackiewicz. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u305	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Again, Mr Piotr Babinetz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u306	Thank you again. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! [[About the formality, Your Marshal. I'm asking you to provide the conditions for us to be here...]] I agree with you on this. It's really a broadcast, a TV interview disturbs us... I will draw attention to the meeting of the Sejm Bureau and we will ask the marshal. [[It's a constant buzzing at the gallery.]] But now let us give you the right... [[That's right, let's give him the right.]] Thank you very much. Since the draft resolution is very precise, as I said earlier, and the CV and achievements of Józef Mackiewicz, I now want to quote a passage from the first part of the dilogy depicting the history of Vilnius during the first Soviet occupation 1939-1941, called the first, although it was the occupation of Bolshevik 20 years earlier. It's a part of the road to nowhere, actually an entrance. The second part of this discourse was not necessary to speak out. The road to nowhere represents ordinary people in extraordinary but extremely difficult times of Soviet occupation on the Polish-Lithuanian-Belarusian border, the population in the former Grand Duchy of Lithuania. Here's the introduction. Besides novels, everything is authentic in this relationship. People, animals and things; events, secret documents and dates; village names; the dawn and west of Moscow time, a line running through the hives which divided the Lithuanian and Belarusian Soviet republics, as well as the direction of every road. The names of the officers of the NKGB state security police station are authentic. The authentic name is also Wiśniewski. I knew him very little, almost briefly, and I won't name him. When years ago, at that time, I was drawing the first sketches for this novel, he, Wiśniewski, lent me a typewriter. I said, "Mr. Wiśniewski, if I ever publish this book, I'll thank you at the beginning." He just nodded his head in disbelief, I would even say that with the kind of disregard he has in the severe oppressions of life for seemingly unreal projects. I do not know if and where Wiśniewski lives at the moment: in Lithuanian, Belarusian or Polish Soviet republic? But I kept my word, and I thank him. Author. Indeed, this concern of Józef Mackiewicz about respect for good people was exceptional, but also about accuracy, precision and facts, after all he said: "Only the truth is interesting. Józef Mackiewicz was a consistent enemy of Bolshevism and communism, but also of every totalitarianism. At the same time he was probably the greatest master of words among the greatest Polish writers - proseists and publicists. The Law and Justice Club joyfully supports the establishment of the year 2022 by Józef Mackiewicz. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u307	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u308	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Józef Mackiewicz is certainly not the most famous Polish writer, and it is a pity. For example, the establishment of the year 2022 of Józef Mackiewicz makes up for some of the arrears we have in our history, in our history of literature, but not only in the history of literature. My generation did not get to know his novels at all, because, you know, he did not recognize Mackiewicz PRL as a legal form of Polish statehood. He was being fought here with all his might. And his emigration fates and relations on this emigration... He was an individual and it didn't always work out so well. In fact, for maybe 20 years we actually have Mackiewicz - unless someone had good sources of emigration literature in war, then we had a chance to get to know Józef Mackiewicz fully. If you don't mind, I will use here a quote from Prof. Włodzimierz Bolecki, who is so characterized and creative: "Mackiewicz's thinking was not related to any doctrine and is completely anti-ideological (the only ideology is anti-communism). It is therefore a misunderstanding to include Mackiewicz's thoughts in terms of contemporary political life. A special nonsense today is to make the writer a patron of the Polish right. Those who do so seem to forget that Mackiewicz was the most fierce opponent of Polish national thought (...) and his... [[Bullshit. Bullshit.]] ...a relationship to the Church, the Vatican's politics, or national minorities brought it closer to its attitude, one can say, even liberal - in the most common sense of the word. The writer's motto was simply the words 'live and let live others'. Appreciating the size of Mackiewicz's prose and the intuition of his artistic, political thought, I think it's worth it even to be in the canon of literature, school reading. This really is an excellent prose and it is really Mackiewicz who proves what literature serves and what the writer's obligations are. The Citizen's Coalition Club (The Bell) of course supports this project and this proposal that it be the Year of Józef Mackiewicz. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u309	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u310	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Józef Mackiewicz - writer, journalist, publicist, but also a furman and lumberjack. If life can be complicated and our choices are difficult, it was Mackiewicz's life. For several months he published in a Polish-speaking German magazine, and in 1943 he participated, invited by the Germans, in exhumations of Katyn. So he was accused of collaborating, and the AK even issued a death sentence. Mackiewicz believed that his task was to convey knowledge about the world, but he had the courage to destroy myths and legends with his works, to violate the stereotypes of collective historical imagination. The main theme of his work was the disintegration of the multi-national community in the former Lithuanian Duchy, for which he blamed nationalism and extremist politics of the Bolsheviks and Nazis. The main character of his work was always a single man entangled in whirls of events and ideology. Mackiewicz's entire work is an accusation of a 20th-century policy to deform and destroy the lives of individuals and nations. His songs produced hot polemics. He was accused of violating political and national taboos, e.g. about questioning the legend of Piłsudski, questioning the policy of the AK or allegedly reducing the Martyrology of Poles during World War II. The writer considered anti-communism to be his world view, but he was equally critical of nationalism. He believed that nationalism was the source of the greatest misfortunes of Europe and Poland. He claimed that the mistake of the Second Republic was the power of delusions, which led to conflicts with nations living in eastern parts of the country, and that it was a mistake to treat them as second-class citizens. He was a supporter of diversity, multilingualism and multiculturalism. He emphasized: nature knows neither racism nor nationalism. So he has a Polish right to learn something from Mackiewicz. In post-war publishing he distinguished the German people from Nazism and similarly distinguished the Russian people and the communist system. He wrote that blaming all Germans for Hitlerism is as absurd as blaming all Russians for communism or Katyn crimes. He was the first to condemn the destruction by the Allies of German cities in the final phase of the war. As a scaffold who knows the beauty of German Shtetina only with photographs I sign these words. If I can personally appreciate Mackiewicz for something, then for his courage. The Left Club supports the resolution on the establishment of the year 2022 by Józef Mackiewicz. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u311	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u312	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Therefore, having found ourselves in a world that recognizes the freedom of the individual, the freedom of thought, we should do everything not to tighten the horizons of thought, but to expand; not to deepen the discussion, and to expand it. From such wise and accurate words of the outstanding writer Józef Mackiewicz I would like to begin this statement today. As timeless as this is, the author should also be unforgettable. Already as a junior student fighting voluntarily in the Polish-Bolshevik war, in later years writing numerous columnists and reports on the political situation in the country and in the world, he was a model of an engaged and active citizen. In later years, he repeatedly caused violent polemics with his works, and as an emigration writer he was accused of many crimes, such as collaborating with the Germans. All his life he had against himself all the most important opinion centres of Polish public life. In 1942, he was even sentenced to the death penalty, but fortunately, he was quickly acquitted. Despite these events, however, he did not become discouraged. This makes me think that he should be a model for all, including modern people. Mackiewicz was not afraid to talk about taboos and express his own opinion loud and clear. Such an attitude could be learned from him by some who lack the courage to act and oppose what we think is wrong, fearing that this might be controversial. The author also devoted a lot of space in his literature to the truth, saying that only she is interesting. I think that's something that a lot of politicians need to know about. Many more biographical references could show that the character of Józef Mackiewicz is inspiring and should be shown to those who have not heard of him and reminded those who unfortunately managed to forget about him. Let us look for patterns for our children in people with faith in their own beliefs and courage to express them. Let us show them on the example of this writer, that action is not always easy, that sometimes it is worth taking difficulties on such a path to live in harmony with ourselves. Let's do it all through this project today. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Marek Biernacki's Conservatives, I would like to say that our club will of course vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u313	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u314	God bless all anti-communists like Józef Mackiewicz. Read it, the country that is reciting these lessons cut out - paste from Wikipedia. Read it, and you'll read that maybe you'll sleep. Józef Mackiewicz would not be pleased that we are proceeding at all on such a resolution. As with the Polish People's Republic, he severely warned against allowing his books to be published in the form, perhaps, of a censored, selective form in the country, so the worship of his memory by this still in the fields of the post-PRL-owski Sejm, the Sejm of the Third and Half Republic, could even be regarded as an insult. You like repeating selected phrases: Only the truth is interesting. Remind me that he also said: Ignorance of masses increases with the dissemination of reading. Nevertheless, the moment is quite touching and groundbreaking, if there is a process of proceding this resolution in the atmosphere, as I see it, of the conciliatory general incontroversiality of this character, although if, I repeat, you were better familiar with his work, you would probably want to sanctify him from this room and from the public life of the Republic of Poland, as Adam Michnik wanted to do, in his own time nominateing Mackiewicz as a zoological anti-communist. But there's progress in nature. Thanks to the fact that here in the Seym, that name and name is coming up, a few more people will hear about it. This is a bitter victory from the grave of Józef Mackiewicz, filled with additional bitterness by this show of hypocrisy, which is once again given here. Mrs Śledzińska-Katarasińska, if Mackiewicz had read in her time, she probably wouldn't have been in the local, provincial press in 1968, but still, on the wave of anti-Semitic chase. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If my colleagues at the Left Club had this reading at the right time on the nightstand, they might not have joined those formations that inherit the traditions of the band of robbers and criminals. Hi, Józef Mackiewicz's memory! It is impossible not to applaud this resolution, but I am glad that it will not be accepted by the acclamation, because it is already for sleep. Mackiewicz might be more than that.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u315	Thank you very much, sir. You're welcome to treat your colleagues in the courtroom with respect. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u316	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 on the parliamentary draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2022 by Józef Mackiewicz. Ladies and gentlemen! Mackiewicz is one of the biggest Polish prosaics of the 20th century, whose life motto was that only the truth is interesting. Writer, journalist, political publicist, enthusiastic anti-communist, winner of emigration awards for literary works, nominated for the Nobel Prize for Literature. The credibility and truthfulness of the truth, contrary to political conditions at that time, did not discourage him from presenting the reality as it is. He often wrote to anger all over the world, published columnies, articles and reports, in which he relied primarily on eyewitness accounts, including his own. As a child, he already participated in the Polish-Bolshevik War and in the defence of Warsaw in 1920, which undoubtedly influenced the formation of his personality. Mackiewicz is a complex individual writer. On the one hand, a pessimistic poet, a historian, a publicist, and on the other hand, a fierce politician. In his work there were two trends - he was interested in man as an individual and in the history of the masses. His novels are characterized by the precision of design, detail, warmth of language and excellent seating in geographical realities. His novel does not need to be spoken out loud, depicting from the perspective of the people of the former Lithuanian Duchy the German-Russian war in the 1940s and 1945s, can be called the drama of history, a drama written for future generations, to learn the cruelty of those times, written to warn further generations, to learn from these events a lesson of humility. By participating in the exhumation in Katyn, he prepared a white book about the Katyn murder, an irrefutable proof of a crime committed against the Polish people. Czesław Miłosz wrote about two of his texts: as long as there is Polish literature, these two records of the horror of the 20th century should be constantly reminiscent. Mackiewicz branded the blurring of the truth. He was not afraid to criticize conduct, behavior that could cover up historical facts. I quote his statement: "A concentrated human lie has a strength whose boundaries we do not yet know. We can see the truth of these words in relation to the world around us today, basically every sphere of it. Józef Mackiewicz certainly deserves to be the patron of 2022, therefore for all the above reasons (The Bell) Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 will vote in favour of this resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u317	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. Please, the first question by Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u318	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Józef Mackiewicz is a writer able to convey his thoughts in very clear words, a man whose work was honored with a special prize of his name, as mentioned in the explanatory statement. But it must also be made clear that in the chapter granting this distinction there is a man who has been expelled from one of the largest countries of Europe quite recently because of the values proclaimed, which are not accepted by democratic communities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u319	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u320	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have already said a lot about the future patron, but I have a question for the government and I ask you to answer in writing: What will the government take in connection with the establishment of this patron of 2022? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u321	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u322	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Communism was Józef Mackiewicz's greatest enemy. It is a great honor that the Sejm of the Republic of Poland will honor the year 2022 with the patronage of Józef Mackiewicz, because his works should be read by all of us. And indeed this anti-communism of Józef Mackiewicz was lacking in 1989, when after the Soviet occupation Communists were allowed to co-manage Poland. To this day there are politicians on the left who were in the Polish United Workers' Party. And the fact that today the Left and the Civic Platform bother you is that in the chapter of the Literary Prize to them. Józef Mackiewicz sits with Rafał Ziemkiewicz, who is denied civil rights and who has not been admitted to Great Britain, but is only giving you a witness. And important question: today, on this important day, when we talk about Józef Mackiewicz, bad things are happening (Dzwonek), because Rafał Trzaskowski forbade the March of Independence, the march of Polishness. This is an outrage. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u323	Thank you, sir. But the PZPR members are sitting on the left and on the right side of this seym. Please, Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u324	Yeah, that's a good point, that's a good point. It seems to me that by proceeding on this resolution in the right, as a rule beautiful, after all, it is about the Year of Józef Mackiewicz, we add a footnote to the work, which is worth recommending to everyone. Victory of provocation, ladies and gentlemen, victory of provocation. If the left and left on the right worship the memory of Józef Mackiewicz unanimously, it seems that everything has already lost meaning here, the words have devalued. Opinions, which are formulated here, can in any way be separated from the reality, which remains just for example. biographies of Members sitting in the High House. I would ask the government a question, yes, of what is the plan of activity (the bell) related to the establishment of the Year of Joseph Mackiewicz, shine, Lord, over his soul.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u325	Thank you. I'm sure at the meeting of the cultural committee we'll take care to ensure that the activities involved in setting up this year are well prepared. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. I'm declaring a time-out. 15.45. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 mins 34 hours 15 min 53]] I'm reopening the session. I would like to ask you, Members, to take your seats. I inform you that the Senate adopted the following laws without amendment: on the establishment of the National Day of the Victory of the Wielkopolska Uprising, on the amendment of the Sports Act. Therefore, the planned items 22 and 23 of the agenda have become obsolete. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - on the amendment of the law on taxation of goods and services and of certain other laws, - on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and certain other laws, - amending the law on hard coal mining and certain other laws, - about the construction of a state border security. The reports shall be printed in 1714, 1715, 1713 and 1709 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. [[Game in the O.R.]] In these cases, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline... Calm down, you'll hear it. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, printing No 1716. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point including the opening of this proposal. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: The revised report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the 45th anniversary of the establishment of the Committee for the Defence of Workers. Let's move on to the vote. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 1689. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 1678 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 419 - for, no one was against, 17 stopped. The Sejm adopted a resolution on commemorating the 45th anniversary of the Committee for the Defence of Workers. We return to the discussion of item 17 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on Parliamentary draft resolutions on the establishment of 2022 Year of Ignacy Łukasiewicz. Let's move on to the vote. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 1548. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 1548 will want to press the button. [[Formal applications.]] After the resolutions, ladies and gentlemen. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 439 - for, 1 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the establishment of the year 2022 of Ignacy Łukasiewicz. We return to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the establishment of 2022 in the Year of Józef Mackiewicz. Let's move on to the vote. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print no. 1600. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 1600 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 441 - for, 1 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the establishment of the year 2022 by the Year of Józef Mackiewicz. There are formal requests. Therefore, please, with the first formal proposal by Mr Borys Budka, the Civic Coalition. One minute, sir. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u326	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I request that the proceedings be adjourned until 3 November, until 3 a.m. 10, in order to enable the Government of the Republic of Poland to submit a bill eliminating the Disciplinar Chamber. [[Applause]] Today, ladies and gentlemen, if this session of the Sejm does not pass this law, Polish taxpayers for your stubbornness will pay nearly PLN 100 million until the next sitting. 100 million PLN this is the punishment imposed by Jarosław Kaczyński, Zbigniew Ziobra and Prime Minister Morawiecki on Polish taxpayers. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. It is you, Mr President, who is supposed to withdraw from the Disciplinary Chamber, but are you so weak and so afraid that there are not enough votes to eliminate the Disciplinary Chamber? We will help you, we will eliminate the Disciplinar Chamber and we will unblock the funds for Poland that your government is blocking today. Yes, dear countries (the bell), it is the government of PiS that blocks funds for Poland and the reconstruction plan. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u327	Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. With the opposite voice, Mr Winnicki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u328	Mrs. Marshal! It's a vote against. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Voice from the courtroom: Marshal, who are these people without masks?!]] You have medical leave, sir. There is a vote against the formal proposal. Read the rules of procedure, sir. Read the rules of procedure, sir, what is the formal proposal and the vote against it. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the moment when the fate of the future of Poland and the future of the European Union actually weighs. The European Union, in which a storm is about to start in all countries because of energy costs, because of the cost of life that... [[You Russian troll.]] ...ideological European Commission imposes. And this is the fundamental moment in which the Polish state must say clearly: independence not for sale. Sovereignty, including sovereignty... [[Russian troll.]] ...lawmaking in Poland and institutions is not for sale. And that's what we expect... [[Moscow, I think.]] ...from the Polish government at this moment. A clear stand on the side of sovereignty. [[Applause]] [[Putin's man on the stand.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u329	Thank you, sir. As a formal request for adjournment has been made, I will put this request to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 203 - for, against - 240, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. With a formal proposal from Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u330	God bless you. Today, the project is entering the vocabulary: the stop of sanitary segregation. Accept him, all of you, who are not in favour of discrimination against your own countrymen. Since last week, you have had a Marshal's knowledge of the existence of the Office of Sejm Analysis about the unlawfulness of the order to mask Members of the Polish Parliament. Under consideration and material to think about for Stirlitz. And besides, ladies and gentlemen, sleep. Richard Filipski is dead. After the funeral, but who didn't grow into the heart of his scene, his movies... Wachmaster Soroka, Major Hubal and others - very often - officers. Whoever doesn't grow into the heart probably doesn't have a Polish heart (the bell), so I call to commemorate the memory of the dead. Richard Filipski... Thank you very much, sir. Now, Mr... Give him eternal rest, O Lord, and let eternal light shine upon him. [[Some of the Members are up.]] Mr President, first of all, what you have presented is not an opinion of the BAS, it is an external opinion. Second, on October 27th, the regional administrative court against the complaint you filed against me for having you leave the sitting room for not wearing a mask... Your complaint was rejected by the provincial court. The court found that the Marshal of the Sejm has the right to issue orders, including an order to wear masks. Thank you, sir. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I can't hear you... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u331	Laryngologist, sir, bows. Please, Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left, with a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u332	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are talking about a number of issues, but not a basic one, which is why we are making a formal request for a break and putting on the agenda the information of ministers and prime minister about the cost+ programme. Inflation in Poland reaches 7% October. Basic products cost money. Fuels, energy, gas - in the coming months their prices will increase by 30%. Not talking about the fact that expensive+ will drive Poles into holidays, which will be the poorest for 6 years... It's your responsibility. You're ashamed that in your cities, counties, you have to explain yourself from the cost. But she's a fact. The Prime Minister and the Minister should tell us today why the government is not responding. It is not enough to say: we will not reduce excise duties. Why don't you tell me why you're giving the Poles a poor holiday? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u333	Thank you. As a formal request for adjournment has been made, I will put this request to the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 200 for, uh, 238 against, no one's holding back. The Sejm's motion is denied. With a formal proposal by Mr Paweł Zalewski, Poland 2050. Please. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Don't bullshit me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u334	Mrs. Marshal! Fellow Members! On behalf of the Circle of Poland 20, 50... [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Poland 2050, sir. [[Voice from the room: 90.]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Poland 2050. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm very happy for your applause and for my decision. This is a very good indication of the possibilities for further cooperation with you. [[The voice from the room: You failed.]] I'm so happy for you. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Circle, Poland 2050 wanted to make a request to change the way in which the proceedings were conducted. [[Applause]] Well, Mr. President... [[You don't even know what party you're in.]] [[Time's up.]] [[Voice from the room: Time.]] Poland is a great responsibility. You've proven it many times. Mr President, the Marshal of the Sejm is in session. I understand you're directing this to me. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] I wanted to... Poland is a great responsibility. Today... [[Sit down.]] Thank you very much, sir. You haven't filed a formal application. ...the big problem is expensive and inflation. Well, the conclusion is that... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u335	Mr... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr... Mr Zalewski, do you hear what I'm saying? [[Voice from the room: No.]] Mr President, is that where you can hear it on this platform? [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr Zalewski, Mr Zalewski, Mr Zalewski, please turn your face to me. Sir, do you hear what I'm saying to you? [[I can hear you now.]] Now do you hear me? [[Yes.]] Really? There's nothing out there that the marshal says? [[You've been quiet...]] You're out of time. Mr President, this proposal will not be put to the vote for one reason. We're not having any debate right now. We're in the middle of a vote. Here you go, one last formal motion. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u336	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, Vice-Marshal Vladimir Czarzasty violated this House's seriousness. Thank you very much to Marshal Terlecki for ending this rainbow display by Mr Czarzasty. Several dozen Members have already signed a motion to dismiss Mr Marshal, who yesterday held a hate séance against 140,000. citizens. [[Applause]] Where were you, marshal, in the '80s? You were a career in the Polish United Workers' Party, and your colleagues from the Civic Militia and the SB used to hang out with homosexuals. [[Voice from the room: Jacint.]] Where have you been? Today, you wear robes of a person who protects LGBT people. That's not what he's gonna do. What you did yesterday is a disgrace to this House. There's no permission to do that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u337	Thank you very much. It wasn't a formal conclusion. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But there has been no formal proposal, sir, so there is no contrary proposal. [[You've already applied.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, there's no conclusion. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I'm sorry, you weren't called. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[It's against the law.]] There has been no proposal, sir. [[How wasn't it?]] There was no conclusion. There was a statement from the Member. We return to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Extraordinary Commission on the Senate draft law amending the law - Code of Civil Procedure. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1622. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1622, would like to raise your hand and press the button. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] It's working. It's working now. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. Everyone was in favour, no one was against, no one held back. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act - Code of Civil Procedure. We are returning to the review of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the draft law amending the Act - Energy Law. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1683. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1683, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 387 - in favour, no one voted against, with 54 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Act - Energy Law. We are returning to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government's draft law on amending the law on the system of development institutions. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1684. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No. 1684, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 318 - for, no one opposed, 126 abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the law on the system of development institutions. We would like to return to the discussion of item 15 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs on the draft resolution submitted by the Bureau of the Sejm on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm. We proceed to the third reading of the draft resolution. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 1661. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is to adopt in full the draft resolution in print No. 1661, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 315 - for, 127 - against, abstained 3. The Sejm adopted a resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. We return to the review of item 11 of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law amending the Act of 24 July 2015 - Law on Assembly and some other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this proposal to the Administrative and Home Affairs Committee for consideration. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill in print no. 1607, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 203 - for, 235 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the proposal and sent it to the Administrative and Home Affairs Commission for consideration. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Voices from the hall: Disgrace! Disgraceful!]] [[It is a disgrace to reject civic projects.]] We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on the Functioning of Coal Mining and certain other laws (Prints No 1710 and 1713). I ask Mr Krzysztof Janusz Kozik to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u338	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present a report on the committee's work on the Mining Act. The Commission has accepted the amendments and proposes that this proposal be adopted. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I'm sorry, she's asking for this project to be rejected. [[The joy, the excitement in the room.]] [[Voice from the room: But how?]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[No, he's asking for the amendments to be rejected.]] Sorry, there have been three amendments tabled to the Senate and the committee requests that these amendments be rejected. [[Voice from the room: About acceptance or rejection?]] It's about rejection. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Voice from the room: But how?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u339	I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. All amendments were tabled to the law on the operation of hard coal mining. In the first amendment, the Senate proposes in Article. 11c give a different wording to the paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 230 - for, 204 - against, abstained 10. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the second amendment, the Senate proposes in Article. 11d give a different wording to paragraph. 4a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 229 - for, 212 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the third amendment, the Senate proposes to add an article. 26b. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 230 - for, against - 204, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finances on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and on certain other laws (Prints Nos 1711 and 1714). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u340	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Public Finances at today's meeting examined the Senate resolution of 28 October this year from print No. 1711 on the Act amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and some other laws. The resolution introduced 10 amendments to the draft. After the discussion and the vote, the four amendments were accepted by the committee, and the other amendments were rejected by the committee. On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I recommend that the High House accept amendments 3, 8, 9 and 10 and that the remaining amendments be rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u341	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 7 were submitted to the Act on VAT on goods and services. In the first amendment, the Senate proposes in Article. 87th change in paragraph. 5c. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 231 - for, against - 213, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the second amendment, the Senate proposes in Article. 87. 5c change in point 1. Amendments 5, 6 and 7 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 2, 5, 6 and 7, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 230 - for, against - 212, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the third amendment, the Senate proposes a change in the revision order concerning the article. 106i paragraph. 7. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. No one was against 432, 10 holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 4th Amendment, the Senate proposes in its Article. 106nc change in the mouth. 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 239 - for, against - 204, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In Amendment 8, the Senate proposes to delete Article. 4. This amendment is combined with the 10th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 8 and 10 would like to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 20 for, against -423, no one stopped. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In Amendment 9, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 6. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 9th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. Four for, 440 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finances on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on personal income tax, the Act on corporate income tax and certain other laws (Prints Nos 1712 and 1715). I ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u342	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to submit a report to the Committee on Public Finance in print No. 1715 on the Senate's resolution on the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and some other laws in print No. 1712. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. 54 (1) (a) On 28 October 2021, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. The Committee on Public Finance, after having considered this resolution at its meeting on 29 October 2021, asks the High Sejm to approve the amendments of the Senate contained in points 1 and 3, reject the amendments contained in points 4, 6, 9, 10, 12, 19, 23, 25, 26, 33, 39, 41, 43.45, 50, 51, 55, 57, 60 and 62 by voting on them together and reject the remainder of the amendments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u343	We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 19. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 Amending Act, containing amendments to the Personal Income Tax Act. In the 1st Amendment, the Senate proposes among others. amendment of the paragraph. Article 4 6. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 229 - for, against - 214, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the second amendment, the Senate proposes among others. not add point 4 in Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. Amendment 54 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 2 and 54, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 230 for, 204 against, 10 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the third amendment to the article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Senate proposes among others. Delete paragraph 22. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 238 - for, against - 206, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. Amendments: 4, 6, 9, 10, 12, 19, 23, 25, 26, 33 to 39, 41, 43 to 45, 50, 51, 55 to 57, 60 and 62. The Senate proposes changes of an editorial and legislative nature. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the amendments: 4, 6, 9, 10, 12, 19, 23, 25, 26, 33 to 39, 41, 43 to 45, 50, 51, 55 to 57, 60 and 62, will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. No one was against - 445, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 5th amendment to the article. 21 The Senate proposes among others. amend the reference in paragraph. 44. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 238 - for, 206 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In Amendment 7, the Senate proposes among others. delete Article. 66. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 235 - for, 196 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 8th Amendment, the Senate proposes among others. Amendment of point 2aa of Article. Article 26 (2) (b) 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Where's the liar sitting?]] 444 Members voted. 229 - for, 208 - against, abstained 7. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In Amendment 11, the Senate proposes among others. not delete Article. 30di. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 11th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 231 - for, against - 206, 4 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 13th amendment to the article. 30f The Senate proposes among others. add the second sentence in the second paragraph. 7a. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is against the 13th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. No one was against - 426, 16 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 14th Amendment, the Senate proposes among others. a change in the paragraph. Article 2a 32. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 14th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 229 - for, 214 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 15th amendment, the Senate proposes among others. the addition of a paragraph. from 2ba to 2bd in Article 38. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 15th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 229 - for, 204 - against, abstained 10. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 16th Amendment, the Senate proposes among others. amendment of the first sentence in Article. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 9. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 16th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 230 - for, against - 213, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 17th amendment, the Senate proposes among others. the introduction of appropriate amendments to the Law of 24 April 2003 on public benefit and voluntary activities. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 17th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 230 - for, against - 204, 8 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 18th Amendment, the Senate proposes among others. a change in the paragraph. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 18th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 231 - for, against - 209, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. Amendments 20 to 39. The Senate reported it to the article. 2 Amending Act containing amendments to the Corporate Income Tax Act. In the 20th Amendment, the Senate proposes to amend the introduction to the calculation in Article. 3 (1) (a) 1a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 20th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 228 - for, 203 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 21st amendment to the article. 12 The Senate proposes among others. Amendment of point 8ba in paragraph 1. 1. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 21st amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 9 for, against - 427, 4 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 22nd amendment to the article. 16 The Senate proposes that paragraph 15b be amended accordingly. 1 and point 3 of paragraph 1. 1d. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 22nd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. There was no one for it, 439 against it, with four abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 24th amendment to the article. 24a The Senate proposes among others. add the second sentence in the second paragraph. 6a. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 24th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 5 - for, 435 - against, abstained 4. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 27th amendment to Article. 24ca The Senate proposes to amend point 1 of paragraph 1. 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 27th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 231 - for, against - 212, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 28th amendment to the article. 24ca Senate proposes to add point 3 in paragraph 3. 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 28th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 229 - for, 210 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 29th amendment to the article. 24ca The Senate proposes among others. Amendment of point 1 of paragraph 1. 3. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 29th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 229 - for, 206 - against, 7 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 30th amendment to the article. 24ca paragraph. 14 The Senate proposes to add a new letter in point 5. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 30th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 238 - for, 205 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 31st amendment to Article. 24ca paragraph. 14 The Senate proposes to add point 7. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 31st amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 237 - for, 206 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 32nd amendment to the article. 24ca paragraph. 14 The Senate proposes to add point 8. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 32nd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 237 - for, 207 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 40th amendment, the Senate proposes among others. delete Article. The 87th Amendment Act. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 40th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 230 for, 213 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 42nd amendment, the Senate proposes among others. do not add § 2 to Article 20zr Act - Tax Order. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 42nd amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 230 for, 207 against, 7 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 46th amendment, the Senate proposes among others. do not give a new wording to point 11 in Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 46th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 231 - for, against - 205, 9 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 47th Amendment, the Senate proposes that appropriate amendments be made to the Act of 13 November 2003 on the income of local government units. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 47th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 231 - for, 204 - against, abstained 10. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 48th Amendment, the Senate proposes among others. delete Article. The 22nd Amendment Act. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 48th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 238 - for, 207 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 49th amendment to the article. 81 The Act on the provision of public-funded health care is proposed by the Senate, among others. delete paragraph. 2n and 2o. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 49th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 241 - for, against - 204, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 52nd amendment, the Senate proposes to delete Article. 27.49 and Art. The 82nd Amendment Act. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 52nd amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 241 - for, 204 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 53rd amendment, the Senate proposes to add a second sentence in Article. The 50th Amendment Act. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 53rd amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. Three for, against -436, four stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 58th Amendment, the Senate proposes to add paragraph. Article 3 65 of the amending act. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 58th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 230 - for, 214 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 59th Amendment, the Senate proposes a change of paragraph. Article 2 71 of the amending act. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 59th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 236 - for, 203 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 61st amendment, the Senate proposes to delete Article. The 11th Amendment Act. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 61st amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 230 for, 213 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on Personal Income Tax, the Act on Corporate Income Tax and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on National Defence on the Senate Resolution on the Law on the Construction of State Border Security (Prints No. 1687 and 1709). I ask Mr Michael Jacha to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u344	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Prime Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on National Defence on the Senate Resolution on the Law on the Construction of State Border Security, print No. 1687. On 27 October 2021, the Marshal of the Sejm addressed the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on National Defence for consideration. The Joint Committees, after having considered this resolution at its meeting on 28 October 2021, ask the High Sejm to reject eight amendments and adopt five. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u345	Thank you very much. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. 4 applicants shall propose an amendment to paragraph. 4. Amendment 5 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1 and 5, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? [[Game in the O.R.]] It's working. Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 229 - for, against - 211, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the second amendment to the article. 5 applicants propose e.g. delete paragraph. 1. Amendment 13 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 2 and 13 will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 1 for, against -443, no one stopped. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the third amendment to the article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 point 2 applicants propose amendments to letters e and g. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 3 for, against -441, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 4th amendment to the article. 5 applicants propose to add paragraph. 4a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 243 - for, 202 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 6th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 7. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 6th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 240 for, against, against, 203, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 7th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 8. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 230 for, against - 207, 6 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 8th amendment to the article. 9 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 232 - for, 210 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 9th amendment, the applicant shall propose an amendment to Article. 10. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 9th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 4 for, against - 435, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 10th amendment to the article. 11 applicants shall propose amendments to paragraph. 1 and 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 10th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. No one was against - 445, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 11th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 11a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 11th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 231 - for, against - 211, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 12th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 11b. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 12th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 231 - for, against - 210, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. At this end we concluded the Senate resolution on the Law on the Construction of the State Border Security. We would like to refer to item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Parliamentary bill on the facilitation of trade on Saturdays and Sundays by farmers and their household. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1646-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Jarosław Sachaika to present an additional report to the committee. Mr Sachaiko. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There's no envoy? [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] [[Let's not laugh if someone's asleep.]] Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u346	Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! At today's committee meeting, we discussed the amendments tabled at second reading. I ask you kindly to support this project. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u347	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1646. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment, applicants propose a different wording of the title of the Act. Amendments 2 and 7 to 10 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of amendments 3, 6 and 11. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 1, 2 and from 7 to 10 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 191 - for, 244 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. 1, Article 3 (1) (a) 1 and Article 1 5 applicants propose that these provisions also apply to landowners. Amendments 6 and 11 are combined with this amendment. He will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 3, 6 and 11 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 209 - for, against - 234, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 4th amendment to the article. 2 applicants shall propose a different wording of point 3. Amendment 5 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 4 and 5 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 439 - for, 1 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1646, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 437 - for, 1 - against, no one held back. The Sejm passed a bill on facilitating trade on Fridays and Saturdays by farmers and their household. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1680-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u348	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government's draft law amending the Road Traffic Law and some other laws. The Infrastructure Commission recommends that the High Sejm adopt the attached bill. The Commission recommends rejecting amendments 1 to 7 and adopting amendments 8 and 9. Let me just remind you that the regulations contained in this important social amendment have two fundamental objectives. The first is the support of people closest to road traffic accident victims with fatal outcome, and the second is the improvement of road safety, in particular through the fight against road traffic offences, including drunk drivers. The social cost of all road accidents and collisions in Poland per year is over PLN 55 600 million. I think that by adopting this regulation, the High Sejm will significantly reduce the very severe and counted in hundreds of thousands of bitter consequences of accidents, the number of people injured, those who have suffered death. I think working on this bill, which all parliamentary clubs have actually supported, will bring good fruit. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u349	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1680. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. Amendments 1 and 2 were tabled in Article. 1 Amending Act containing amendments to the Act - Traffic Law. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose to retain the existing wording of the Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 and paragraph 1. 5. This amendment is combined with the 2nd amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 13 - for, 427 - against, 1 abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. Amendments 3 to 5 were tabled in Article. 3 amending act containing amendments to the Act - Code of Offences. In the third amendment to the article. 24 applicants propose not to add § 1a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of the 4th amendment. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 17 - for, against - 425, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 24 applicants propose a different wording § 1a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 48 for, against - 387, 5 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 92a applicants propose an amendment to the added § 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 11 - for, 429 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 96 of the Act - Code of conduct for offences of the applicant propose to add § 1ae. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 15 - for, 423 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 12 Law on State compensation for victims of certain criminal offences. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 13 - for, 428 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th Amendment to e.g. Article 2 102 Act on driving vehicles applicants propose to amend the reference in paragraph 1. 1b. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 424 - for, 3 - against, 12 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 9th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 22a to the draft amending act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 422 - for, 3 - against, abstained 15. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1680, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 390 - for, 18 - against, with 27. The Sejm passed a law amending the law - Traffic Law and some other laws. We return to the review of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets and the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1666-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Peter King to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u350	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels and some other laws, print No 1633. At its 40th meeting of 28 October 2021, the Sejm shall be held in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, re-directed the draft law in print No 1666 to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets in order to consider the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets, after considering the amendments at its meeting on 29 October 2021, ask the High Sejm to approve amendments 1 and 3 and reject the others. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u351	The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1666. The committees also present amendments on which we will vote first. All amendments were tabled in Article. 1 containing amendments to the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels. In the first amendment to Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The amended act proposes to add points 6 and 7. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 434 - for, no one was against, 3 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 39 of the amended law, the applicants propose to add paragraph. 1a. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 206 - for, 234 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 39 (1) (a) Point 2 (1) of the amended act proposes that the applicant should add point (a) to the amendment. g. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 438 - for, 1 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 34 of the amended law propose that a new wording be given to the applicant. 4. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 199-- for, 239-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 1 The amending act proposes that the applicants should make a new wording of point 31. Amendment 6 is combined with this amendment. The committees are bringing them in since they've been rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 5 and 6, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 200 for, against - 240, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the bill amending the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels and some other laws in print no. 1666, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 426 - for, 10 - against, abstained 4. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels and some other laws. We are returning to the review of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on a draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. The additional committee report is in print No 1679-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u352	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I present an additional report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws, print No 1675. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after considering on 29 October 12 amendments, asks the High House to adopt nine and reject the others and to adopt a law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u353	The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1679. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. Amendments 1 to 9 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. In the first amendment to Article. 15gh and art. The applicant shall propose an amendment to the added paragraph 31zzn. 3 and 4. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 439 - for, against - 1, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 15kc applicants propose a new wording of the added paragraph. 8a and 8b. Amendments 3 and 4 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 2, 3 and 4 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 429 - for, 11 - against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 5th amendment to the article. 15zze applicants propose an amendment to the added paragraph. 1a, 1b and 2c. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 427 - for, against - 2, 10 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 31a applicants shall propose an amendment to paragraph 1. 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 202 - for, 230 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete the following Article. 31zzt and 31zzu. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of amendments 8 and 9. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 209 - for, 230 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the inserted Article. 31zzt and 31zzu. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 9. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 421 - for, 20 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendment 9 has become unobtrusive. Amendments 10 to 11 were tabled in Article. 2 draft amending act containing amendments to the Employment Promotion Act and the institutions of the labour market. In the 10th amendment, the applicant proposes to add paragraph. 3a in the following Article: 61bb. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 428 - for, 15 - against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 11th amendment to the article. 108. 1 applicants propose a new wording of point 21b. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 429 - for, no one was against, withhold 10. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. 12 applicants shall propose the new wording of point 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 426 - for, no one was against, no one held back 10. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1679, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 431 - for, 10 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report from the Social Policy Committee and the Family on the parliamentary bill on compensation for early retirement for children requiring constant care. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1678-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Leszek Dobrzyński to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u354	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the draft law on compensation for early retirement for children requiring constant care. The Commission considered the above. The draft and the opinion shall be taken as a whole. At the same time, we welcome the rejection of all amendments tabled at second reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u355	Thank you. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1678. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose to give a different title to the law. Amendments 2, 5, 7 and 8 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the nullity of the 3rd and 4th amendments. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 1, 2, 5, 7 and 8 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 202 - for, 229 - against, 10 stopped. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. 2 applicants shall propose to make a different wording of paragraph. One and two. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of the 4th amendment. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 201 - for, 228 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 2 applicants shall propose to make a different wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 198 - for, 229 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 2 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 202 - for, 230 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. 17 The Family Benefits Act of the applicant proposes amendments to paragraph 1. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 96 - for, against - 229, 116 stopped. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1678 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 438 for, 2 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm has passed a law on compensation for persons entitled to early retirement in respect of care for children requiring permanent care. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the excise duty Act. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1705-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u356	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Public Finance at today's meeting examined five minority proposals and two amendments to the Government's draft excise tax law. All minority requests were rejected by the committee. Amendment 1 was accepted by the committee with the vote on the amendments and Amendment 2 was rejected. The Commission recommends that the High House adopt this very important bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u357	Thank you. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1705. The Commission also presents minority proposals as well as an additional report to reject the draft law in its entirety and the amendment. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. The Commission requests that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 204 - for, 227 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. All minority applications and Amendment 1 have been submitted to the Excise Tax Act. In the first minority application, applicants shall propose in Article. 99 give a different wording to the paragraph. 4. Its adoption will result in the nullity of the second minority proposal. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 45 - for, 397 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the second minority application, applicants shall propose in Article. 99 give a different wording to the paragraph. 4. We're voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 73 - for, 366 - against, abstained 3. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the third minority application, applicants shall propose amendments to Article. 99c. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 66 - for, 375 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 4th minority application, applicants shall propose amendments to Article. 165a. Its adoption will result in the nullity of the 5th minority proposal and amendment 1. We're voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 4th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 64 - for, 374 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 5th minority application, applicants shall propose in Article. The wording of paragraph 165a shall be replaced by a different wording. 6 and 7. Its adoption will result in the unsubstantiatedness of Amendment 1. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 54 - for, 383 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the first amendment, the applicants propose in Article. 165a amendments to paragraph 1. 4.7. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 423 - for, 19 - against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 2a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 209 - for, 231 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1705, along with the amendment adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 219 - for, 208 - against, abstained 10. The Sejm passed a law amending the excise duty law and the law amending the excise duty law and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 25 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the draft law amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1707-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Iwona Arent to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u358	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present an additional report by the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the draft law amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and some other laws. At its 40th meeting of 28 October 2021, the Sejm shall be held in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, re-directed the draft law contained in print No 1707 to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets in order to examine the proposal and the amendments tabled at second reading. The Commission has considered both the proposal which spoke about the rejection of the project in its entirety and the amendment concerning a different model for determining the market price of electricity. The Commission recommends that both the proposal and the amendment be rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u359	Thank you. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1707. The Commission also puts forward in an additional report a proposal to reject the draft law in its entirety and an amendment. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. The Commission requests that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 211 - for, 228 - against, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the amendment to the article. 4b. 4 and 5 of the Renewable Energy Act, the applicants propose a different model for determining the market price of electricity. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 202 - for, 228 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft law in its entirety, in print no. 1707, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 225 - for, 212 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and some other laws. I would like to remind you that authorised entities have submitted requests to supplement the agenda: - Circle of the Confederation by points: - First reading of the Parliamentary draft health segregation bill, - Information from the Minister of National Defence on forcing Polish Army soldiers to participate in a medical experiment called vaccinations against COVID-19 and the practice of unlawful, non-constitutional, non-regulatory discrimination against non-vaccines; - Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left (New Left, PPS, Total) by a point: - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the state of play of negotiations with the Czech Republic in the context of the Court of Justice of the European Union's proceedings on the Brown Coal Mine of Turów; - Circle of Poselskie Poland 2050 by a point: - Information by the President of the Council of Ministers on the scale of nepotism in state treasury companies; - Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens with points: - First reading of the Senate bill amending the Act on the Polish Tourist Bone, - First reading of the Senate draft law on occupational diseases caused by COVID-19 in professionals in the health care system, - First reading of the Senate bill amending the grant law for certain entities, - First reading of the Senate bill amending the Act - Environmental Law and some other laws, - First reading of the Senate bill amending the law - Code of Criminal Procedure, - First reading of the Senate bill amending the Act - Environmental law, - First reading of the Senate bill amending the Act on Employee Capital Plans and the Act on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, - First reading of the Senate bill amending the law - Penal Code implementing, print No. 918, - First reading of the Senate bill amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, - First reading of the Senate bill on the repeal of the Act on the National Media Council, - First reading of the Senate bill amending the law on local taxes and charges, print No. 919, - First reading of the Senate bill on the metropolitan union in Pomorskie voivodship, print No. 646, - First reading of the Senate bill amending the law - Penal Code, print No. 582, - First reading of the Senate bill amending the law - Code of Criminal Procedure, print No. 580, - First reading of the Senate bill amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws, print No 436, - First reading of the Senate bill amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund, the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers and the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, print No 1226, - Report from the committee on the Senate draft law on the compensation of property damage arising from restrictions, orders or prohibitions on economic activities introduced in connection with the declaration of an epidemic or epidemic caused by SARS-CoV-2, prints 1019 and 1217. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of Circle of the Polish Confederation on 6 July this year. has submitted an application for supplementing the agenda by a point: First reading of the Parliamentary draft health segregation bill. [[Applause]] The proposal was renewed by the Association of Polish Confederations on 10 August, 14 September, 28 September and 12 October 2021. Since these proposals are identical and have been submitted by the same entity, the Sejm will vote on these proposals together. We proceed to the vote on the same proposals for supplementing the agenda by a point: First reading of the draft health segregation bill submitted by the Koło Poselskie Konfederacja. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of these proposals would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 25 - for, 397 - against, 12 stopped. The Sejm has rejected requests for supplementing the agenda. We proceed to the vote on the request for information by the Minister of National Defence regarding the coercion of Polish Army soldiers to participate in a medical experiment called vaccinations against COVID-19 and the practice of unlawful, non-constitutional, non-regulatory discrimination against non-vaccines. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 11 for, against -422, 5 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the request for information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the state of play of negotiations with the Czech Republic in the context of the proceedings of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the Brown Coal Mine of Turów. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 212 - for, 227 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed to the vote on the proposal concerning information of the President of the Council of Ministers on the scale of nepotism in state treasury companies. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 210 - for, 231 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed to the vote on the proposal for a bill amending the Act on the Polish Tourist Bone. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 200 for, 233 against, 8 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the proposal for a Senate draft law on occupational diseases caused by COVID-19 in professionals in the health care system. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 200 for, 228 against, 9 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on a proposal for a draft law amending the Grant Act for certain entities. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 205 for, 233 against, one abstention. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on a proposal for a bill amending the Act - Environmental Law and some other laws. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 203 for, uh, 238 for, uh, one abstention. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on a proposal for a bill amending the law - Code of Criminal Procedure. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 208 - for, 233 - against, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed to the vote on the proposal for a bill amending the Act - Environmental Law. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 200 for, 239 against, no one stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the proposal for a bill amending the Act on Employee Capital Plans and the Act on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 201 - for, 240 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the proposal for a bill amending the law - Penal Code implementing, print no. 918. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 209 - for, 231 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the proposal for a bill amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 209 - for, 230 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the proposal for a bill on the repeal of the Act on the National Media Council. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 208 - for, 231 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the proposal for a bill amending the Act on local taxes and charges, print no. 919. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 200 for, uh, 238 for, uh, two abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the proposal for a bill on the metropolitan union in Pomorskie voivodship, print no. 646. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 208 - for, 228 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the vote on the proposal for a bill amending the law - Penal Code, print no. 582. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 210 - for, 230 - against, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the proposal for a bill amending the law - Code of Criminal Procedure, print no. 580. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 211 - for, 230 - against, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the proposal for a bill amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws, print No 436. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 199 - for, 230 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the proposal for a bill amending the Social Insurance Fund Act, the Farmers' Social Insurance Act and the Individual Income Tax Act, print No 1226. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 198 - for, 229 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the proposal for a report from the committee on the Senate bill on compensation for property damage arising from restrictions, orders and prohibitions on economic activities introduced in connection with the declaration of an epidemic or epidemic caused by SARS-CoV-2 virus infection, prints 1019 and 1217. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 208 - for, 230 - against, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No. 1716). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print 1716 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 415 - for, 2 - against, with 11 abstentions. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. At this end we concluded the vote and exhausted the agenda of the 40th meeting of the Polish Parliament. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I close the list of Members who have been made to make statements. I declare a two-minute recess before the statements. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 mins 32 hrs. 17 min 33]] Resume session. Please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Lorek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u360	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members, With respect for the Member present, please silence the conversations, possibly moving them out of the Seym. Jan Stanisław Jankowski great forgotten. Yesterday, in one of my speeches, I told the story of one of the oldest Polish schools, the Piotrkowska Sorbony, which is today's 1st High School of General Education. Bolesław Chrobry. Released some time ago by a longtime director of this esteemed Zenon Bartczak facility, the monograph containing a list of her famous graduates contained one of the famous names. It was Stanisław Jankowski. Jan Stanisław Jankowski was born in Krasów Wielki in May 1882. In 1900 he graduated from junior high school in Piotrków and then began his studies at the University of Warsaw. After his graduation, he worked as an assistant at the Department of Agricultural Chemistry at the Jagiellonian University. From his early youth he was engaged patriotically, working underground in various independent organizations. He was active in national relations and also served in the First Personnel Company of Józef Piłsudski. He was a member of the Central National Committee. After regaining his independence, he threw himself into the whirlwind of political work. He was co-founder of the National Workers' Party, Minister of Labour in Witos' government in 1921. The May bombing did not end his career. He continued to actively support moderate organisations with national provenience. He was a capital councilman in Warsaw, and since 1936 he worked in the Labour Party. After the outbreak of the war and the development of the structures of the Polish Underground State in 1941, he became director of the Department of Labour and Social Welfare of the Polish Government Delegation to the country, at the end of 1942 he became a deputy delegate of the government to the country and in April 1943 himself a delegate. In 1944 he was appointed Deputy Prime Minister and headed the National Council of Ministers. He approved the outbreak of the Warsaw Uprising, thus translating his decision: "We have no choice here. Storm is not something isolated in Warsaw. This is the link of the chain that began in September 1939. Fights in the city will explode, whether we want it or not. In a day, two or three Warsaw will be on the front line (...) It is hard to imagine that our... young people, whom we have trained for years... we have put their weapons in hand, will be passively watching or able to transport Germans without resistance to the Reich? If we don't give a signal to fight, the Communists will beat us to it. Then, of course, people will believe that we wanted to stand at our feet with guns. In March 1945, he was kidnapped and arrested by the Soviets. Together with other leaders of the Underground State, he was transported to Moscow and illegally tried in a fake trial. He was sentenced to eight years. Two weeks before the end of the sentence, he was most likely murdered in Włodzimierz nad Klazma. In June 1956, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) He was buried in the cemetery there. The symbolic grave is located in Warsaw's Powązki. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u361	Thank you so much for your statement. Now I ask Mr Grzegorz Braun.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u362	God bless you. High Law of Izbo! Mr. Marshal! Summary of 29 October 2021, the second year of the fight against the supposed pandemic, which is the fight of the government of the Republic of Poland under the false white and red flag apparently lead He's going to the last healthy, alive, wealthy Pole. I have the opportunity to look into the eyes of some of the Members who represent here. the demodyctatura of the parliamentary majority and constitute, in some cases, even prominent figures of the group currently holding power. So you've just rejected our sanitary segregation project. This project would not have to be submitted if the law in the Republic of Poland had been in force if some legal automation had been born. Lawlessness is diagnosed, prosecuted, detected and subject to criminalisation. Evil is repaired, criminals are inhibited in their drives. Your intentions - yours, the parliamentary majority, and here I must take a look at the other side of the House, because this is a united coalition of COVID - to separate and by segregation discriminate against our own people, are, as you can see, unbridled. Forced to participate in experimental medical procedures, and in some cases pseudomedical procedures, because e.g. Sticking a stick into different body openings under the pretext of fighting infectious diseases is now widespread practice and it is forced, using the relationship of subordinates, and soldiers, and artists, and policemen, and people of other uniformed, civilian, state administration. The compulsion of masking has repeatedly been exposed as a quack procedure and yet medical procedure. This is because a number of studies show inefficiency, inefficiency, and some studies also show the harmfulness of this procedure. The least harmful of all this autointoxication, hypoxia, which is undoubtedly giving rise here. This is perhaps the least drastic of these elements of the entire absurd theater you've built here. This aspect of masking has been such a fetish of the Sejm Bureau for a year and a half now with varying intensity, so it was justified because legal automation is not working, because the right to privacy has been forgotten, neglected, medical confidentiality, etc., and finally to ask for legal opinions on this matter and these opinions have come. One came, as it is said, from the city, and the other came from the Sejm Analysis Office. And these opinions, ladies and gentlemen, were made public, the second BAS-owska entered into the knowledge of the Marshal of the Sejm as early as last week, submitted in the Marshal's offices on 26 October. Yesterday, as a matter of procedural caution, I made a written statement to the Members of Parliament, but since it has not yet been made clear in the minutes of this meeting, I therefore again draw the attention of the High House and the Bureau of the Sejm to the existence of these experts. These expertises, ladies and gentlemen, in a surprising way to me, without an esopic legal speech, without nuance and dividing the hair into four, these expert reports of Professors Chmaj and Grabowski clearly diagnose the application of the compulsion of masking (Dawn) Members of the Polish Parliament as unlawful, and punishments, repression, not to mention harassment and mobbing, resulting also consider as unlawful, unfounded. Thank you very much. I recommend that you give this kind attention, Mr. Marshal, once again to your expertise. It should be read carefully, especially with clear conclusions. Thank you very much. I'm asking you to close the statement, and please don't do any exhibits here. I'll reach out if I want to. I recommend reading.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u363	Mr Lisicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u364	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The M.S. Act. Warsaw was adopted in 2002. It was intended to reform the Warsaw government and to combine Warsaw into one organism, because Warsaw had previously formed several municipalities. Currently Warsaw consists of 18 districts, which have their authorities, statutes and modest competences. In Warsaw we are still dealing with centralization. The President of Warsaw, who currently does not have much time to manage the largest city in Poland, has a huge competence at the same time. Districts, and especially district councils, which are auxiliary units and which are also close to the inhabitants, do not in principle have any legislative powers allowing for lawmaking, because their resolutions may suspend the President and cancel the Warsaw Council. The district council may choose the board of directors, but a large part of the competence, e.g. Staffing competence is the responsibility of the President. The President may grant these powers to the mayor of the district, but he may also fail to give them, which in Warsaw concerns those mayors who do not like the authorities of Warsaw. The competence of the district councils is very modest, because apart from the choice of the board of directors, most of the resolutions they take are only opinions and positions. This is reflected in important matters, for example. Local zoning plans are adopted on the Warsaw Council, and in the district they are only evaluated. Therefore, there are considerable delays in the adoption of local plans in Warsaw. Currently, only 40% of the city area is covered by local plans. At the same time, there is an office and budgetary units in each district. The town councilmen are about 400 - it's a very big cost for the city budget. District councils and district offices are a significant cost to the city budget, but at the same time, and perhaps above all, it is a significant unused opportunity. So it is either necessary to eliminate the districts and district councils, or, in my opinion, to go in this direction, to equip them with the right skills to exploit the opportunities that give them the proximity of their inhabitants. What do you have to do? We need to give more competence to the districts, district councils and district boards of Warsaw. Especially since the current bounty hunter of the capital has time to explore cities all over the world, but there is no time to visit his workplace. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u365	Thank you very much. I would like to make a statement to Mrs Teresa Nolas.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u366	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! November is the month in which Poland regained its independence. It's a month of reflection and memory, a month of all the saints and all the dead. That day, 1 November 1918 in Lviv, is a time of painful challenges and only history in constant readiness reminds us of this. Anyone who stood at the cemetery of Lviv Orleans once felt and understood much, if not more than much. It is these white crosses that tell everything about heroes fighting Lviv. They were several years old, and sometimes even less, when they chose to defend themselves Night watch and duty in the trenches. Their password: we won't. Lviv seemed crazy, because it was them, children, who were supposed to face the battles of Ukrainian soldiers, well armed and experienced. They were students in school uniforms, students or famous Lviv batons, children of the street, who had been earning bread since their youngest years. The youngest defender of Lviv was 9 years old, seven were 10, 33 were 12, 74 were 13, 127 were 14, 640 were 15 and 16 years old and 537 were 17 years old. And so one by one: Jurek Bitschan, a 14-year-old, symbol of all the Eagles, those known by name and those nameless, who left such a letter when he left the house: Dear Daddy! I'm going to check in with the army today. I want to show that I can find enough strength to serve and endure. It is my duty to go when the army is lacking to free Lviv. I've done as much of my homework at home as I need to. He fought in the first row when he was hit with two bullets at the Łyczakowski cemetery. Tadzio Jabłoński, 14-year-old. He also ran away from home to join Lviv's defenders. He fought like a hero, always walked in the first line, to see as soon as possible the mother who was in the occupied part of the city by the Ukrainians. He never met her again. He died on November 18th. Antos Petrykiewicz, 13-year-old student of secondary school. He fought at the Losing Mountain and then followed his commanding officer to defend the Persenkovka. There he was badly wounded and died after three weeks of suffering in the hospital. He was the one who talked to his mother, saying, "I fought just as much as the elders, Mother, praise. I just feel sorry for you, Mom. I just feel sorry for Poland. Girls were also fighting alongside the boys. Helenka Grabska fell with her brother Janek, Janecka Prussia died saving a wounded soldier. And many others, beautiful, with braids and a heart on your hand. It was thanks to them and such as them that after fierce fights on 22 November Lviv was free again. As the only city in Poland, he was awarded the Virtuti Militari Award for the unparalleled bravery and bravery of Lviv children. May this testimony today, in the moments of memory and the reflection of November's feast, fill many of us with pride for the great deed of the Lviv Eagles. Let it be a beautiful and appreciated example of a noble heart for their contemporary colleagues, peers, young residents of free Poland. Perhaps many will put off their smartphone for a while and move their thoughts to difficult times marked by war, struggle and devotion to the highest importance - national dignity and freedom. I deeply believe that because I believe in young, beautiful, sensitive, open and good hearts. Eternal glory to heroes! Peace be with you, Polish! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u367	Thank you so much for this touching statement. Now I would like to ask the floor of Mr Kurzepa.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u368	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Lovers! It is with you that I would like to advise for a moment the fact that Polish Ład generously gave the land to Lubuskie. As it happens, in recent days many of you are quoting a rhyme with me: from sea to Tatras is ruled by Polish Loads today. [[Applause]] In view of this, I would like to begin by thanking colleagues of parliamentarians of Law and Justice in the members of Marek Asta district president, Mr Władysław Dajczak, Mrs Elżbieta Rafalska, Mrs Elżbieta Płonka, Mr Jurk Materna, that together, in a juicy economic dialogue, we considered a list of recommendations for the Polish Government and the fruit of this Community debate of all parliamentarians of Law and Justice was that we led to a situation in which 677 million people landed in Lubuskie. Each of us, that is the nature of the parliamentarian, is dressed in feathers of the perpetrator of this event, but this is team action. [[Applause]] And for this teamwork of each of you and each of you fellow Members, thank you. Of course, it is worth mentioning the spectacularness of the Polish Load program, which is recorded on Lubuskie land, among others. proposals for financial support such as what happened in Krosno County. Krosnieński County Hospital received... 3950 thousand.? [[Thousands.]] Okay. These are numbers that I don't get it in the natural household budget. ...for a CT scanner. Fifty thousand inhabitants of this county today may rejoice that they will not have to go to Gorzow or to the Green Mountain, simply at home, in their hospital, to diagnose themselves. Within the framework of this money is 46 million per district Krosnieński, where e.g. One of the municipalities, the municipality of Maszewo, absolutely not ruled by the politicians of Law and Justice, receives 7600 thousand. and thus addresses all its needs for road investments. And to the glory of the country, and to the glory of this self-government. [[Applause]] It's just the way it is. Next thing you know, I have a lot of satisfaction here because I like this kind of vibe. It is on the land of the Lubuskie commune of Otyń, where local authorities have planned to renovate the former railway station and create a municipal cultural centre there, which will be very modern, multimedia, etc. There are many wonderful things going on in the field of culture. And here's the commune getting the money to make this community center... You have to operate in specifics, let me find it on the list - 6373,000. It's an extremely important matter. This means that high quality culture will also be able in good infrastructure reality to carry out itself in the municipality of Otyń. That's another thing. City of Brzeźnica, managed by politicians of the Polish People's Party. You and I have talked many times about the very important thing of building the Bukovin Highland culture centre. After all, you know perfectly well that Lubuszanie is visitors from many regions of Poland. This type of division, not only on roads, not only on sewerage, on sanitary issues, but on schools, on cultural centers, for higher order purposes, is a beautiful range of offer of Polish Load for Lubuskie land and the whole Poland. That's good news. Happy birthday. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u369	The statement will now be made by Anna Ewa Cicholska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u370	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I had the pleasure of attending the meeting of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki with local government officials in Nidzica. Someone might say government propaganda. No, it's not. After the meeting in Nidzica, I invited local authorities from the counties of Mławski and Ciechanowski, starosts, mayors and wójtów of various political options. Local governments appreciated the government's actions, and the Strategic Investment Programme will allow them to implement many of the necessary investments. Local Poland does not need politics, it needs sustainable development, it needs financial resources. The Polish Load and the programs contained in it give it a chance to new roads, modernization of water and sewerage infrastructure, sewage treatment plants, renewable energy sources, modern heating network, development of sports, cultural and educational infrastructure. There's no way to replace everything. It is worth remembering, however, that the funds provided are to stimulate the investment activity of local governments, develop local entrepreneurship, create new jobs and improve the living conditions of citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u371	Please take the floor of Mr Czesław Aekierski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u372	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my great concern about the agricultural situation. Here are the crops due to weather conditions in many fields that have not been harvested in a large part. This applies to many municipalities, that I will mention only the municipalities of my district, here I am thinking of the municipalities of Pacanów, Nowy Korczyn. The costs have been incurred, there is no income, there will be no income. The situation is that farmers will have problems providing animal feed. So the agricultural resort should take action to help these farmers with special programmes. There used to be these kinds of schemes where farmers were given specific support. Those who have been affected by such conditions, which have clearly worsened their income situation, but also the situation related to the conditions of holding, the maintenance of animals. A similar situation is in the fruit and vegetables market, these prices are very low. All this results in the fact that the level of sales revenue will not provide, will not be able to cover the cost of production, the cost of restoring this production, the cost of maintaining it. And this is a difficult situation that is facing extremely difficult problems due to the situation on the market of fuels, gas, energy. We have the effect that fertilisers have been used up in the last period of two. - three times. So if we look at this difficult situation that I mentioned earlier, we'll see that farmers will have nothing to buy the means of production needed for the next production cycle. This will, of course, go into future production costs, because these costs will be much higher. Farmers will not be able to lay down such measures and inputs as to ensure an adequate level of production. And the point is to make agriculture competitive on the market. This must also reduce production, but also increase prices for agricultural products, and consequently affect the prices of foodstuffs for which the consumer will pay, including the farmer, the villagers, all of us as consumers. It can be said so loosely that the European Green Load is being properly implemented, which implies a significant reduction in the level of use of fertilisers, plant protection products. The aim is to reduce their consumption, reduce the negative impact on the environment. Of course, this consumption will decrease as a result of a galloping increase in prices. In addition, rising inflation is added. In this situation, it can be said that Poland's Load - announced as a strategy, hope, as announced by the highest authorities - will bring great risks if no additional action is taken, because what has been proposed will not solve the raised problems. I think these are difficult challenges that are facing a new minister - an experienced activist and at the same time a self-government officer, former Deputy Minister, former Minister, former member of the government. Let us hope that he will undertake these difficult tasks. Farmers, Minister, are expecting (the bell) your actions to improve their situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u373	Thank you very much, sir. I would now like to make a statement by Mr Waldemar Andzel.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u374	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! From this point of view, I would like to express my thanks to the President of the Council of Ministers, Mateusz Morawiecki, for the first edition of the Government Fund for Strategic Investments. I agree with the Prime Minister's words that it is an unprecedented and unique programme, thanks to which PLN 23 billion will be sent to Polish local governments. It is an element of the Polish Order, which is consistently introduced by the Government of Law and Justice. More than PLN 2 billion will go to the Silesian Voivodeship, from which I come. The Strategic Investment Programme offers an opportunity to develop and improve living conditions absolutely in every municipality in the country. These investments include the development of road infrastructure, especially in rural areas, the construction and expansion of cultural and educational facilities, the improvement of the water and sewage economy and many others. I strongly hope that next editions of this extremely important program will be presented in front of Polish local governments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u375	Thank you very much. The statement will now be made by Maciej Kopiec. There isn't, so... [[I'm here, I'm here.]] Oh, I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u376	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Last week we had the opportunity to read the recommendations of the Committee on the Environment. Against Mobbing, Sexual Use and Discrimination and other undesirable behaviours among Students and Doctorates of the Silesian Medical University, which say among others. that students should not violate the principles of morals and cultural patterns in their costumes. And that the appearance and costume of students and students influence the development of relations with patients and academic teachers of both sexes. These guidelines say, among other things, that avoiding wearing shirts with deep neckline and short skirts than half thighs, avoiding high heels or asking to cover tattoos are wonderful ways to solve any problems. These recommendations are an extremely irresponsible response to the events that took place at the university in 2020, when the accusations of harassment, mobbing and bullying of the learners at the university were made by the lecturers. This situation, including more and more frequent information from schools across Poland about dress restrictions, is also a tribute to the words made by Minister Czarnek about the virtues of the women and the desire to please the central authority by the various scientific and teaching institutions. One of the Prime Minister's advisors said: it is crucial to develop virtue and place emphasis on the proper education of women. It's outrageous. Discriminating, chauvinistic nonsense begins to have an important impact on the situation in universities, which should be the center of science and knowledge, not ideology, chauvinism and patriarchy. Clothing in no way defines a man, does not indicate his knowledge and competence. However, the content of the recommendation suggests that the responsibility for events at the Silesian Medical University in Katowice last year is borne by students and students. Education, freedom, respect for diversity are the foundations of a well-functioning democratic state. Only sound education and responsible people with public functions are able to ensure the safety of citizens. It doesn't depend on what we wear, how high we have heels, what color we wear. We put on a shirt and what tattoos we have. It's nothing more than individual expression and style of being. If anyone feels provoked to act prohibited by any element of this expression, they should look for the problem in themselves. It is high time for schools to focus on reliable sexual and anti-discrimination education, not on restricting young people seeking their identity of people who deserve the best possible knowledge and the ability to be themselves in every situation of life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u377	Thank you very much. I would now like to make a statement by Mr Piotr Adamowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u378	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! If there is enough time, I would like to refer to the euphemisms of the Members of the Polish Order. But for now, let's get to the point. Well, on 18 October this year, the City Council of Gdansk made an appeal. He is directed, among others. to parliamentarians. The appeal concerns stopping the destruction of the Polish education system. Since he is addressed to parliamentarians, I allow myself to present him. The planned amendments to the Act - Education Law are an expression of the uncompromising desire to dominate the central authority. They would reduce the possibility of cooperation between educational institutions and social partners to organisations licensed by the education curatorium. Consequently, they would result in the development of an educational programme solely on the basis of the ideology adopted by the governing party. Proceded changes are strictly subject to the schools of the school's education board, which is the government's field office. Curatoria, which is currently a school supervisor, will become a determining authority on matters such as the selection of a school principal, non-programmed educational offer, the creation of a school network, etc. The directors will be subject to criminal sanctions, including imprisonment, which are disproportionate to the non-defined excess of powers in the legal doctrine. We find the proposed legislation unacceptable. Education is not political, school is not political. Polish education is a place of growth and creation of Polish society, whose future depends on the experience that today's students and students, as well as school workers carry out and will carry out. Any changes in education have long-term effects. Mistakes affect generations, and their repair, if possible, takes years. We want Poland to be a free, democratic, legal and competitive country in economic, scientific and social terms. We expect the same from Polish schools and kindergartens. The huge chaos caused by the deformity of education in 2017 significantly worsened the educational conditions of children and young people, while ignoring the strike of teachers 2 years ago left the environment in a state of discouragement. Pandemic caused deep trauma and frustration in school communities. Our joint urgent responsibility is the support of the school community. Faced with the current challenges, we need to focus on creating good working conditions in an atmosphere of trust and support for teaching staff, building skills among students and students in learning and understanding complex processes taking place in the modern world, working together to solve problems in place of idealized curricula. School and kindergarten must meet the challenges of the future, fascination with knowledge, teach critical thinking, empathy and self-care skills and common good. In view of the above, with regard to the welfare of students, students, teachers, school communities and society as a whole, the Gdansk City Council calls on the President of the Council of Ministers, Members of the Sejm and Polish Senators to take immediate action to stop the destruction of the Polish education system. I've got 60 seconds left, I'm gonna try to run them out. Well, I would advise the Members of the PiS who spoke and praised the Polish Load to simply visit the website of the Association of Polish Cities. There is precisely calculated how many medium-sized cities, large cities, agglomerations will lose due to the Polish government. 'Cause maybe smaller cities are gonna get better. It's all exactly by the municipalities calculated. Thank you, Marshal. Thank you for your perseverance. Good evening.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u379	Thank you very much, sir. As a self-government officer, I can only say that I largely agree with the Member's opinion on the happiness that has happened to the cities, the happiness in quotes. [[Thank you.]] There you go, Mrs Małgorzata Sekuła-Szmajdzińska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u380	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will admit that this is the first time I am making a parliamentary statement today, and actually the situation forced me to do so because yesterday I could not speak because the rights of Members were limited, the possibility of asking questions at the first reading of the project was limited: the LGBT stop. It made me very sad, and that's why I wanted to say a few words about it today. These are mostly difficult words that I heard yesterday, sad words. I'm going to quote it to you because it's the words that the person representing the applicants made. The LGBT Lobby is marching for power like the NSDAP in the 1930s. We are not going to apologize for the wording: LGBT ideology, because they are supposed to be people, not ideologies. There are people behind every ideology, just like they were. for communist ideology, Nazi ideology. I have read these words to you, as I said before, with sadness, because such words have never been said in our House. I want to tell you that last night I met young people - not just young people - who protested before the Sejm. Among them was a very nice, polite young man who introduced himself. Her name is Francis Broda. I'm sure you're aware that this is Mr. Prime Minister's nephew. I asked him why he was protesting against amending the convention bill. He said that this is a project that violates the constitution, violates the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. He said he didn't mind. pilgrims to Jasna Góra, which I fully agree with and absolutely do not mind. A young man said he didn't want to exclude the demands of LGBT plus people from public space. High Izbo! I have read various opinions about this proposal, this project, and also as a lawyer I agree with what the Supreme Bar Council suggests. It does not even suggest, it simply says to us that the law in force fully responds to concerns about possible violations of the rules concerning morality, morals, insulting the symbols of the state or objects of religious worship, and the project directly undermines the freedom of assembly and seeks to exclude people from LGBT plus. Is this the way it's supposed to be? Should decent people support this? I hope that doesn't happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u381	Thank you very much, Member. I would now like to make a statement by Mr Fryderyk Kapinos.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u382	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! September 1st this year at 3 p.m. 5.47 the first passenger train in 12 years arrived at the railway station in Mielec, followed by an hour. 5.55 left for Dębica. In August 2009, rail passenger services on line L25 were liquidated on the Mielec-Dębica route. Thus, on 1 September 2009, children and young people from primary, secondary, vocational and secondary schools could not take the train to their schools, but also on 1 October 2009 students could not take the train to the cities where they were studying. Without the great determination of the mints, e.g. Mr Tomasz Poręba's MEP, but also the Marshal of the Podkarpackie Voivodeship, Mr Władysław Ortyl, and without their involvement and work, would not be precisely that this railway line is open for passenger transport and 32 km of the railway route from Mielce to Dębica have been modernised, including stops, safe journeys and infrastructure for disabled people. It is very important that young people can reach primary, vocational and secondary schools from 1 September this year. It is also prepared for students to travel from Mielec to Dębica on Sunday, which allows them to reach Krakow or Rzeszow, and due to the great interest already since January 2022, this kind of journey will also be carried out and additionally dedicated to students on Fridays in the afternoon. Mielec and the district of Mielecki are famous not only for planes, not only for football, not only for the first special economic zone in Poland, but especially for good, honest, hardworking and entrepreneurial residents, and the return of rail passenger services on the Mielec - Dębica line is a reason for their great joy and great facilitation of communication. In my speech I focus on my home region, but there is no way to find an analogy to the situation from other parts of Poland. This is because we are dealing with action in an excellent way in accordance with the policies of the rule of law and justice, during which 400 km of railway lines have been reconstructed. Talking about increasing communication availability in the release whether by rail or by bus, it has been turned into real activities and investments for 6 years. Both the example from Mielec and many other examples is a concrete proof that it is simply possible, that in Poland, where it was said that nothing could be done, it is possible, which is exactly what has been shown here. Because in 2012, when a feasibility study was prepared by local authorities, which resulted in showing that the renovation of the L25 railway line was economically justified, the authorities nevertheless wanted to liquidate it. At that time Marshal of Podkarpackie Voivodship Władysław Ortył entered on the list of potential projects concerning Podkarpackie Voivodship for the years 2014 and 2020 the renovation of this railway line, and then everything went like an avalanche. In 2018 the tender was already concluded, in 2019 the works were started, and today we can enjoy the passenger train courses on the Mielec - Dębica route, for which everyone involved in the implementation of the project which gave Mielce a railway window to the world, headed by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, thank you very much. It is also worth mentioning that this is not the end of positive changes related to the railway for the city of Mielec and the district of Mielec, as there are ongoing actions to repair the railway line on the Mielec - Padew Nationala route, as well as the revitalization of the railway station building in Mielec. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u383	Thank you very much. And Mr Jan Szopiński closes the list of Members who are scheduled to make a statement today. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u384	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! There is no smooth operation of the police without police personnel. It is a large, almost 25-thousand-year-old group of professionals: IT scientists, financiers, technicians, analysts and other specialists, without whom it would be impossible to operate neither the Police Headquarters nor the Police Commands and Units at any level and any specialty. Unfortunately, police civil servants are also another professional group which, after six years of rule of law and justice, collides with unfair treatment, expensive treatment and a monthly struggle to make ends meet. According to the data of the National Commission of the Police Workers' Union, as many as 6 thousand. civilian workers, i.e. up to 1/4, met the conditions for compensation in 2021 - attention - up to the minimum wage. It's a shame, a shame for the police, a shame for a government institution in a country where, according to PiS politicians, we have money, unlimited resources, and the Prime Minister boasts of a monthly multi-billion-dollar surplus. It must also be a personal shame for the chief of police, but also for the deputy prime minister and minister responsible for the police. Police civil servants are disappointed by the police and are tired of unfair treatment. They release it in letters and e-mails addressed to both ministers and parliamentarians. That's why the question is, how does the chief of police want to achieve such an effect that Poles respect the police when the police don't respect themselves? How can the chief appeal for respect for the police on the part of citizens if he does not respect his own employees, as demonstrated by their pay belts? How do the police want to keep citizens safe if they don't care about the financial security of their employees? I'm counting on auto-reflexion from your commandant. I would also like to address Minister Mariusz Kaminski: without competent and properly paid civilian workers there will be no efficient police force, otherwise the work of civilians will have to be done by police officers. I therefore call on the Minister to change the ministry's policy and to increase the police budget in 2021 in order to grant civil workers adequate increases. I would also ask Minister Mariusz Kaminski to take a personal initiative, to intervene with Mr Kaczyński and to increase his remuneration plan for 2022, because what the government is proposing today is not even enough to compensate inflation, which is now - as we know - 6,8% And it's growing. There was already a black Friday performed by a civilian police officer, and since last Thursday in many units of the Łódź garrison there is no civilian employee because they decided to repair their health. Next week, more civilian workers in the next garrisons of the Polish Police are going to benefit from medical sick leave. Minister! Last week, you announced a programme to upgrade the M.S.W.A. uniformed services. My club called on you next week to upgrade your thinking about how to be a good boss for $25,000. employees. These employees are making the least of their money today in the entire Ministry of Home Affairs department. At the last meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, administrative staff found out that 24,000 had been sent to the group. The beneficiaries who receive additional budget resources are priests, while the chief police chief must use the funds himself to pay the social security contributions of police officers. Minister, these representatives of civilian workers were truly very sorry. I believe you'll be meeting with these workers, and I believe you will find a solution. Mr. Minister, you'll be a good boss for these employees as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u385	I would like to thank Mr Jan Szopiński very much, but I would also like to thank Mr Siekierski, present in the Chamber, who made sense of Mr Izbo's return. [[Thank you very much. Thank you, buddy.]] That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u386	Dear Marshal! Please attach to the minutes of the 40th session of the Sejm information about the mistake in the vote. In item 11 of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law amending the Act of 24 July 2015
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u387	Mrs. Marshal! On 1 October 2021, the Sejm established a new state holiday: the National Day of the Victory of the Wielkopolska Uprising. In Lower Silesia there is a grave of the insurgent of Wielkopolska, who died during the uprising. On February 3, 1919, 23-year-old Antoni Cebulski died in the Wrocław Lazare because of his injuries. He was buried in the personal cemetery. Antoni Cebulski served in the Polish Legions. In 1918 he took part in the Wielkopolska Uprising. He was wounded twice in early 1919 and entered German captivity. He was treated in the hospital in Lesnica and in the Mazaret in Wroclaw. In the '60s, a civilian was buried in his forgotten grave. The tomb of the insurgent Anthony Cebulski of Wielkopolska ceased to exist. But the memory remains. In the 1980s, people associated with the solidarity placed masts with the Polish flag in the grave. In 1998 the then voivode decided to establish a new grave of Antoni Cebulski. A fruitless search for the family was also started. The location of the new tombstone in the original place was no longer possible due to the civil burial, hence the new tombstone was located a few meters away. Therefore, today, the inscription on the grave reads: "In this field lies (...). The tomb also gained the status of a war grave. In 2018 Marek Cebulski from Krobi near Gostyń in Wielkopolska began searching for his grandfather's brother, insurgent Antoni Cebulski, who died childless. His tracks led to Lower Silesia. Mr. Marek told a story to his relative from Wrocław, and his relative contacted Damian Mrozek, an employee of the Lower Silesian Voivodeship Office. After 100 years, we managed to find our family. The tomb of Antoni Cebulski was covered by the action That's when I met with the family of Zebulski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u388	Statement on the Polish Load in the Tarnów district. As part of the Polish programme, PLN 456 million went to the district of Tarnów. I am pleased that so many lessons have been accepted from this region and that I have been able to support many of them in a positive way. Construction of new roads, sports halls, waterworks or kindergartens - all this will now be possible. I congratulate the local authorities on their effectiveness. I wish them good luck in achieving their goals. I would like to thank all those of the United Rights who have done a great deal of work in implementing the programme. Thanks to the program of Polish Load it will be possible to implement, among others. tasks such as construction of water treatment stations, water treatment, reservoirs and pumping stations in Proszowice, renovation of municipal roads in Koszyce commune, extension of the building of Primary School No 9 in Tarnów, construction of kindergarten in Baczkowo in Bochnia commune, construction of sports and educational infrastructure at the primary school in Świebodzin in the municipality of Plesna, modernisation and extension of educational institutions in the municipality of Wierzchosławice and many other tasks.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u389	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In October we once again celebrated the National Day of Medical Rescue. It is extremely important, on the occasion of the annual holiday, to draw attention to the needs and problems faced by this group of health professionals. Only last year, medical rescue workers provided assistance to nearly 3 million victims - according to data from the Central Statistical Office. In ambulances, field cars, helicopters and boats, human life saves nearly 13,000 every day. Paramedics. At this point, all those employees of the State Medical Rescue System who perform their tasks in hospital emergency units, emergency rooms or trauma centers cannot be overlooked. This is therefore an excellent opportunity to remind you of the still difficult situation of some medical rescuers. I would like to express my sincere regret about the attitude of the health department in this situation. The lack of a systematic approach to the remuneration of medical rescuers gives rise to legitimate concerns and high uncertainty about the future of this professional group. I would like to call on Minister Niedzielski to put more emphasis on solving the medical emergency problems in our country. However, this cannot be done without a dialogue with the designated professional group and, above all, an increase in the funding of the system. It is impossible not to mention medical rescuers and all other employees of the State Medical Rescue System. To address all of you directly, I would like to thank you very much for your commitment and the effort you are putting into fulfilling your obligations under the service provided to the general public. I wish you perseverance, success and satisfaction in fulfilling your daily duties and every success. Thank you for your commitment to helping those affected.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u390	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On 15 October 2021, at the Bielska-Biała villa of Teodor Sixt, which, after modernization, became a place of important events for the region, received scholarships from the Bielska-Biała Foundation at the Jagiellonian University. The Foundation Council has decided that you will receive them from Hanna Kania, Karolina Mikulska and Mr Leon Romek. The award decision takes into account outstanding learning outcomes and personal achievements. Education is one of the most important processes we go through in life. It gives us the knowledge and experience we need. Education should be a continuous process. This allows us to better understand the changing world and take advantage of the opportunities that are born. It is also worth remembering that in the 21st century education is an extremely important vehicle for personal development. The knowledge-based economy creates an extraordinary space for those of us who possess the ability to use and aggregate information resources into a useful framework. This enables us to pursue our own aspirations. Scholarships of the Bielska-Biała Foundation at the Jagiellonian University will certainly be helpful in pursuing their own educational path. I would like to congratulate all awarded scholarships and wish them many successes in the field of education and personal satisfaction. I also declare that today, at the 40th meeting of the Polish Parliament, I voted in error during vote No 84. My intention in the vote No. 84, i.e. the vote on the whole of the draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws, prints No. 1504, 1680 and 1680-A, was to abstain from voting. I mistakenly used the button: against.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-sejm-40-2.u391	Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 40th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 41st session of the Sejm, scheduled for 16 and 17 November 2021, will be delivered to ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 18 min 26]]
