ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u1	I'm asking you to keep your conversations quiet. I see I have to use a marshal's cane. I open the twenty-nineth session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Alexander Swede and Senator Richard Świlski as the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Alexander Swed. Dear Senators, in connection with the outbreak, after consulting the Senior Convention, I have decided to give this meeting a special formula. The meetings will be held at the same time in a traditional manner and using means of remote communication in a remote manner. The rules for the participation of senators in Senate meetings in a remote manner are laid down in Article. 67b Senate Rules of Procedure. The Senators taking part in the meeting remotely! Please make sure your iPads are connected to the power supply and the cameras are on. Please also ensure that the iPad position and camera lens are visible during the connection. You can subscribe to questions and voices in the discussion via chat in the application. Legislative requests, speeches and statements should be sent by e-mail to the address previously sent to you by the Senate Office. There is also a special telephone number at your disposal. Under this number you can consult the content of proposals of a legislative nature or notifications of technical problems Please do not turn on microphones yourself. It will be possible to speak only after it has been given by the Speaker of the Senate and after the launch of the microphone by the informatics of the Senate Chancellery. I also inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If one of your senators fails to join the session before the session is blocked or one of your members loses contact, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. I remind the senators who use the application to participate remotely in the sitting that they start voting, so-called. polling in the Webex system causes a message to appear. To take part in the vote, click "OK." I would also like to remind you that you need to press 2 buttons after you cast your vote in the voting window and in response to the confirmation question. Please activate the voting device. [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work. One is the problem of the card doesn't work.]] Already? [[Voice from the room: It works, it works. The card was misplaced.]] [[A voice from the gym: A young senator, you know...]] Yeah, he's still inexperienced. [[Voice from the room: Inexperienced. Just because gray hair doesn't mean anything.]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, my...]] [[Voice from the room: Failure.]] Oh! That's your computer scientist, sir. Perhaps the opposite needs to be inserted, Senator. [[Voice from the room: No, no.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Figure it out.]] Does it work? [[Voice from the room: It's working.]] It works because the votes have arrived. [[Voice from the room: Nothing works.]] Welcome to the senator. Please state the results of the vote. 89 senators voted and so many senators are currently taking part in the sitting. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, may I have your attention, please? On 9 August 2021, Senator Ryszard Jarzembowski, Senator II, III, IV and V of the term of office died. From 2001 to 2005, he was Vice-Marshal of the Senate. I ask you to honor his memory with a minute of silence. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord.]] [[The gathered answer, "Let eternal light shine upon him."]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the end. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voices in the courtroom: Shh...]] On 13 August 2021, Senator Marek Minda, Senator of the 3rd term of office, died. He was Chairman of the Sub-Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. European integration, as well as a member of the Committee on Social Policy and Health and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and International Economic Relations. Please also celebrate his person with a minute of silence. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord.]] [[The gathered answer, "Let eternal light shine upon him."]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. Unfortunately, August was tragic for the Senate, because on 25 August 2021 Senator January Bień, Senator V of the term of office, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment and member of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Legislation and the Laws died as well. This is the last dead person. Please rise and honor the senator with a minute of silence. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord.]] [[The gathered answer, "Let eternal light shine upon him."]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Sejm, at its thirty-sixth meeting on 11 August 2021, adopted all the amendments of the Senate tabled to: the Act amending the Law on Police and certain other laws; the Law on Foreign Species; the Law on Aid and Loan Cash; the Act amending the Act on Monitoring and Control of Fuel Quality, and some other laws. He also adopted part of the Senate's amendments tabled to: the Act amending the Law on VAT on goods and services and the Law on Banking Law; the Act amending the Law on Civil Procedure and some other laws; the Act amending the Law on the Law on Cleanliness and Order in Municipalities; the Law on Environmental Protection and Waste Law; the Act amending the Act on Public Finances and Certain Other Acts; the Act on Open Data and Re-Use of Public Sector Information; the Act amending the Act on Radiophony and Television and the Act on Cinematography; the Act amending the Act on the Institute of Solidarity and Maternity of Witold Pilecki and some other laws; the Act on the preparation and implementation of investments in the reconstruction of the Saski Palace, the Brühl Palace and the tenement at Royal Street in Warsaw. In addition, the Sejm at the same meeting rejected the amendments of the Senate tabled to: the Act amending the Act on the Social Security System and certain other laws; the Act amending the Act He also rejected the Senate resolutions rejecting: the Act amending the Act on the Agency for Medical Research and some other laws; the Law on Special Solutions related to the Special Purpose of Forest Land; the Law amending the Act on Taxation and Local Charges; the Law amending the Law on Higher Education and Science and the Law introducing the Law on Higher Education and Science; the Act establishing the Zamość Academy. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the twenty-seventh and twenty-eightth Senate meetings, in accordance with the Senate Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If none of you raises objections to them, they will be adopted at the next meeting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. The Commission has not prepared a report on point eight: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Medical Activity. This item will currently not be included on the agenda approved by the Senate. I propose that all items on the draft agenda be considered, although the committee's reports on them have been submitted at a later date than specified in the Rule. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose a change in the order of consideration of the previous paragraph: the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. and consider it as a third point; the third point to date: the Law amending the Law on the remuneration of managers of state positions and certain other laws and consider it as the fifth point; and the fifth point to date: the Act amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and certain other laws and consider it as point six. This is mainly due to the request of the Climate Ministry to shift their point to a later date. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? No. I state that the Senate approved the agenda for the 21st meeting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office. If no legislative proposals are tabled, the vote on point 1. second reading of the draft resolution commemorating the victims of the terrorist attacks at the World Trade Center on 11 September 2001 will take place immediately after its consideration. Voting on the second paragraph of the Act amending the Act on Radiophony and Television It will take place after the adjournment of the session, which will be announced after the examination of the third point, which is today around 2:00.15 a.m., I presume. The votes on the remaining laws considered today will be held at the end of the day, if we finish by 10 p.m., a maximum of 23 p.m. In addition, I would like to inform you that on the second day of the meeting we will start by considering items 9 and 10 of the agenda, i.e. the resolutions of the parties. If legislative proposals are not tabled, these points will be voted on immediately after consideration. Today, after considering the first point, a break will be announced by 12.30, during which the first floor will open the exhibition entitled "The Traveling Artist Cyprian Norwid. Let me remind you that the Senate declared 2021 Norwid's Year. Also tomorrow, immediately after the examination of paragraph 10, the second reading of the draft resolution in honor of the outstanding independent activist, publisher and politician of Victor Kulerski, will be announced a break in the proceedings during which the exhibition will be opened. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda, the second reading of the draft resolution commemorating the victims of terrorist attacks at the World Trade Center on 11 September 2001. I would like to welcome our guests here, including a political advisor to the US Embassy in Warsaw, Mr Anthony Pirnot. Welcome. [[Applause]] I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 481, and the report is published in print No 481 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, to submit a report to the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Guests! Ladies and gentlemen! I will start with a report on the work of the Legislative Commission on the draft resolution commemorating the victims of terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center on 11 September 2001. At its meeting on 8 September 2021, the Commission considered, at first reading, the draft resolution submitted by the applicants, amended it and requested the adoption by the Senate of the attached draft resolution. At the committee meeting, the senators were unanimous on the adoption of a resolution. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the subject of the draft resolution? Nearly 3,000 people were killed at the World Trade Center in the United States, including 6 Poles, in the September 11th 2001 bombings. 6,000 people were injured. So far, nearly 3.5,000 people have died in rescue operations on 11 September, and many more suffer from serious health problems. Among the most common diseases are respiratory diseases and cancers. 20 years ago, the bombers abducted four planes that hit the buildings of the World Trade Center in New York City and the Pentagon headquarters in Washington D.C. The fourth machine crashed in a field in Pennsylvania. Since 11 September 2001 For two decades now, terrorism has been permanently present in the general public consciousness of people around the world. The terrorist attack on the United States of September 11 was a shock to everyone, especially because of the scale of the tragedy, as well as the novelty of the measures used, although planes were already planned in the 1990s, e.g. Eiffel Tower or CIA headquarters, however, were thwarted. In 2005, an assassination took place in France, when 130 people were killed and 350 were injured. The 9/11 attack certainly opened a new period in the fight against international terrorism. There was also a breakthrough in American politics. After the attack on the World Trade Center, it became clear that international terrorism had entered a new phase. The attacks inspired by Al-Qaeda were unnegotiable. Wanting to destroy, and the target was as many victims as possible. His own losses to religious fanatics didn't matter. After 11 September 2001, the assessments were multiplied that it would never be the same as before. However, there was a rapid sceptical expression that defined the continuity of international politics, despite the dramatic 9/11. The 11th of September will probably have a serious impact on the societies of the liberal-democratic world. After the disappearance of the Soviet world, there was a growing belief that the world of threats had given way to the world of risk. Fears, enemies and threats have now returned, and everyone can become suspicious, affecting the internal lives of democratic countries in a significant way and leading to a reduction in citizens' rights and freedoms. There are theories that say that September 11 ended in the end of the Cold War and that day there was a conflict of civilization. So are we dealing with a major collision with the world of Islam today? Many today ask whether the 9/11 attack can be considered the beginning of a new era in international relations. However, on 11 September, none of the major political processes, such as the unification of Europe, the creation of a single Euro-Atlantic security area, the development of China, the globalisation of the world economy, were stopped. We are all beginning to realise that the foundation of the new international order must not only be to use military force, but also to respect freedom, justice, democracy and human rights. The United States of America plays a leading role in the fight against global terrorism, but today it is difficult to assess the withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan from the perspective of 11 September, which has taken place in recent weeks. The United States of America is not only the cradle of freedom ideas of democratic legislation In 1787, the world's first constitution was passed, today judged liberal for its time. Not only did the United States first set out the path of democracy, but after two great wars, the cataclysms of the 20th century, since 1945 have been a mentor and a global guardian of democratic order. This role has been effectively played for the next seven decades. It is largely due to the fact that, within 75 years of the end of World War II, there has been no armed conflict in the world on a global scale. I am presenting a resolution to the High Senate commemorating the events of 11 September 2001, linking in pain with the American people and the families of the victims, appreciating the role of the United States in defending democracy and global security. Content of the resolution: The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland commemorating the victims of terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center on 11 September 2001. On 11 September 2001, a series of four terrorist attacks took place on the territory of the United States of America using abducted passenger aircraft. The perpetrators were representatives of the Al-Ka'id organization, who, after mastering the planes, directed them to two World Trade Center towers in New York City and the Pentagon building. In the case of the fourth aircraft, the attack failed due to the unparalleled heroism of the passengers, and the machine crashed in Pennsylvania. In total, about 3,000 people were killed in the bombings. Among the victims of this attack were representatives of many nations, including Poles and Poles. On that memorable day, the whole civilized democratic world was speechless. The aim of this unprecedented attack in the history of the world has become the cradle of democracy, the Republican system and inalienable human rights and the citizen. The foundations of this system were three noble ideals: freedom, equality and brotherhood. Members of the Senate of the Republic of Poland bow their heads at the moment of concentration and deep reflection and pay solemn homage to all those who died as a result of these tragic events. You have been, you are, and you will be the symbol of the sacrifice suffered in the name of the free world, attacked by representatives of a fundamentalist terrorist organization, fighting what is close to all democracies in the world. We join in pain with all those who lost their loved ones then, we join in pain with the American people so painfully experienced those events. The United States of America is not only the cradle of free ideas and democratic legislation for both individuals and entire multinational communities, but also the country in which the first constitution in the world was adopted. These values are also extremely close to the entire Polish National. The Senate of the Republic of Poland wishes to express with full determination the deep conviction that it is absolutely unacceptable to resolve ethnic conflicts, international conflicts, political disputes or to pursue mutual claims by any other means than peaceful negotiations and international mediations. Let the memory of the victims of the attacks 20 years ago be an obligation for mankind never to resort to violence, bloodshed or acts of terror in the resolution of disputes between states, nations, ethnic groups, religions or individuals in the future. Let the memory of these events be a moral message for a better future. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur of the committee and, at the same time, to the authorised representative of the applicants. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Alexander Swed was the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For starters, I'm going to refer to one of the accounts of those events. Before this tragedy the son was in Poland. The two of us spent the whole night talking, and we sat until the very morning. My son had his business in the United States and took orders from a larger company. On Monday, after returning from Poland, he was supposed to go to the World Trade Center, but that he was right after the arrival, he gave it up and postponed his visit on Tuesday. He went and never came back... You can be like, "What if?" And you're like, "What if?" and you're like, "Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I learned about this during the meeting of the Polish Academy of Sciences in Krucza in Warsaw. The meetings were held there at the hotel on the top floor. I thought the beginning was at 1:00, so that's how I got here, and there I meet a friend at the door who says it's all over. Well, I turned around and went to Zbyszek Szczepakowski's club because he was based nearby. I went in, and the secretary says keep us quiet because she's looking at the TV. What horror are you watching? I asked by looking at the screen. She said it was live from America. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. A moment later, however, her son's wife called and said that Norbert was in one of the towers during the attack, about a hundredth floor. At that exact time another plane hit the second tower, so I didn't even ask which one my son was in. I hung up and started calling him directly. Leave the message I've heard over and over again. So I reunited with my daughter - in - law, but she was already in despair and could not speak. This is how his son Norbert Szurkowski told his father Ryszard in his book Ryszard Szurkowski. Race. Autobiography. Norbert and his wife were expecting a second child. Norbert hired himself to make some extra money with Cantor Fitzgerald's office wallpapering. The assassination of the World Trade Center was a powerful blow to America, for example, because of the number of victims he pulled. As highlighted in the Senate resolution, a total of about 3,000 people were killed in the bombings. Among the victims of this attack were representatives of many nations, including Poles and Poles. According to official data, six Poles were killed in the assassination on 11 September: Dorota Kopiczko from Augustów, Łukasz Milewski from Suwałk, Norbert Szurkowski from Wrocław, Anna De Bin from Pietkiewicz's house from Elk, Jan Maciejewski from Zduńska Wola and Maria Jakubiak from the Opole village of Błota. As pointed out in the article "Western Journal." On September 11, New York, WTC, it would be just a list, it would be only dry names, but we learned more about Polish victims quite quickly. Well, 26-year-old Dorota Kopiczko was an accountant at Marsh & McLennan, which was located on the 100th floor of the first World Trade Center tower. Łukasz Milewski, only 22 years old, worked in the cafeteria of Cantor Fitzgerald Bank. The family put his favorite albums, letters, T-shirts and photos in the coffin instead of the body, wrote in 2001.New York Times. Anna De Bin from Ełk was a legal assistant at Cantor Fitzgerald, Jan Maciejewski worked at the Windows on the World Trade Center and as a computer consultant, and Maria Jakubiak was an accountant at Marsh & McLennan. Today, through the Senate resolution, we join in pain with all those who lost their loved ones. We share in pain with the American people, so painfully experienced by those events. Thanks to the initiators of this draft resolution, let me conclude by quoting its last passage: "Let the memory of the victims of the attacks 20 years ago be an obligation for mankind never to resort in the future to violence, bloodshed or acts of terror in resolving disputes between states, nations, ethnic groups, religions or individuals. Let the memory of these events be a moral message for a better future. I strongly support this draft resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Bogdan Klich will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u6	I am very grateful to the initiators of this draft resolution, because it reminds us of the event, which was the end of a certain optimistic era in the history of Europe and the world, and at the same time began A new era, an era that continues to this day. The projectors here wrote down what had to be written: our respect for all those who died during the attacks on the World Trade Center and elsewhere in the United States, and our solidarity with the American people, which continues to this day. I would like to say a few words about this solidarity. It is only for this reason that I am concerned that there is not enough talk about this solidarity in the proposed resolution. We all remember those moments when the towers of the World Trade Center in New York were falling to ashes. We remember those dramatic moments we had with our American friends. We remember this American tragedy and remember this American anger, the right anger that followed. But we often forget that the day later, 12 September, the North Atlantic Alliance for the first time in history, for the first time since its founding in 1949, launched the article. 5th Washington Treaty, this article, which plays a key role from the point of view of Polish national security. Never before and never later For good luck. This article on mutual defence did not have to be launched. But then, on September 12th, none of the North Atlantic Pact participants had any doubt that the second attack on American territory in the history of the United States had to be met jointly and severally. And we answered, Poland also answered. And then there were consequences of this strategic decision. Because our politics and our troops went to Afghanistan. They went to Afghanistan to carry out a stabilization project with the Americans. Did we have any business there? Did we have any major political interests there? Oh, no. I have talked about this many times over the last 20 years. But we Poles had a sense of solidarity and we had the conviction that, standing side by side with the Americans, we were buying a security policy for our children and grandchildren here in Central Europe that our presence with American soldiers and American diplomats is a form of securing our country if we ever needed such help from Americans in the future. It seems to me that what is lacking in this resolution is this tale of solidarity that we should, especially at this moment, repeat indefinitely. Our national security is in an increasingly difficult situation due to the intertwining of international circumstances, and that is why we expect not only solidarity from America, but also that America will continue to be the leader of the democratic world. Poles have the right to see this pattern in America, because from there we drew many patterns for our Polish democracy. So it is not a trivial thing to expect, which I am expressing today and which I think I am expressing in the name of many Poles. We expect the United States under President Biden's leadership, regardless of its external and internal circumstances, to uphold the democratic order in the world, to reverse those areas that have been lost to democracy, to support all those who fight for democracy or oppose undemocratic populism. We hope that the Americans and the President of the United States, within this policy based on the values of democracy, human rights, civil rights, minority rights, freedom of expression, including freedom of the media, will be an ally of all those to whom these values are at heart. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u7	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to thank all my speakers, and in a special way Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, who remembered this important Caesar. 20 years ago, we were worried that the democratic world would be able to defend its values against such a barbaric attack. At that time, as a young man, co-worker of the then President of the Council of Ministers, I witnessed a discussion within the Polish government, how and in what way a country such as the Polish state should be involved in this fight against international terrorism. Today, this resolution reminds us of the victims and pays tribute to them, joins in pain with those who have lost their loved ones. It is also recalled that the attack was an international symbolic attack because it was an attack on the cradle of democracy, on the American people. Thank you for the human stories that Senator Alexander Swed reminded us of, and thank you for this appeal by Senator Bogdan Klich, who will always remain close to us, that we expect the United States to continue to uphold democratic values. In a special way we show that the Polish Parliament, the second Chamber of the Polish Parliament, will never forget these events of September 2001, those victims, which were both among representatives of the American people and representatives of other nations, including Poles and Poles. Hello, victims' memories! Let us also look at these events as a signpost showing that the values closest to us, freedom, democracy, the right of man to choose, sometimes we have to fight without succumbing to the barbarism of those who try to deny these values. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I also want to join those who thank the initiators of the resolution, also for the fact that it is primarily moral. I listened attentively to President Klich's speech. I support the resolution in its present form because its values are determined by moral opposition to something that was absolutely extraordinary, absolutely barbaric and drastic. Even if fate hadn't brought us together with the Americans the way it's brought us together since World War I, we would have reacted as we reacted because of our culture. The alliance with the United States is uncontroversial, but I have a skeptical attitude towards us developing details and details of Polish-American or European-American relations, which are not free from controversy, as well as asking questions about the meaning of many military operations, including in Iraq. This is the subject of an open debate in Europe and we should not continue on this occasion. It seems to me that on such occasions it is worth talking about something that expresses Polish political culture. There was no terrorism in Poland, we gained independence without violence. It is not obvious, many nations have regained their independence in a bloody way. We, because of our culture, have consciously avoided the great bloodshed in confrontation with communism, have a special title to resist all forms of terrorism. it is because of its own culture of nonviolent struggle, the struggle for freedom, the struggle for independence without violence. I propose that, on subsequent occasions of this kind, we should be as few as possible, expressing this truth about the Polish political culture, Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u11	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski will speak:
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is clear that this tragic coup was a cezura in world politics. It was also a very important reference to the different geopolitical situation in the world. And as until 2001, it seemed that the international order after the collapse of the Soviet Union could be referred to as Pax Americana, but after 2001, unfortunately this situation was not so clear. This anniversary is celebrated in the shadows of the events we witnessed at the end of August in Kabul, and which... after all, Afghanistan was also a prostrate on September 11th. We see clearly that we are dealing with an increasingly uncertain world, a world in which there are new sources of threats, where there is a reconfiguration of traditional geopolitical references, and here I am thinking about the growing role of China, and I am thinking about other phenomena that appear in world politics. From this point of view, our national security is very important. We are sitting today, and tomorrow will take place behind our eastern border unprecedented military maneuvers or exercises, which are, if we postpone the current policy and disputes between the opposition and the government camp, in the assessment of everyone in this room, a huge challenge. All the more so because, contrary to the declarations that they are defensive, they are de facto offensive, because their agenda is to work out the penetration here, but I quote more or less, not literally the terrorist groups from the West to the areas where these manoeuvres take place. The suggestion is obvious. I do not want to develop this subject at the moment so as not to enter into current issues, but I would like to draw your attention to the House that we need especially today, in this difficult international situation, complicated... Although we may not be directly affected by world terrorism, although we are in the camp of democratic countries, in the camp of the North Atlantic Pact, so we are somewhat defined on this side of the disputes that are taking place, on this side of the dispute, where there is no consent to violence, aggression and killing innocent people in the name of ideology or political reasons. Absolutely not allowed. I take this resolution as an objection to this barbaric act, which took place on 11 September 2001. I remember how shocking the paintings were. Even the commentator on CNN TV couldn't help it when it wasn't known what was going on, and all you could see was these swarms of smoke and hitting the World Trade Center Air Force Tower. I am very pleased that the Senate of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to the victims of this barbaric act of terror and I hope that the world policy and standards that will apply in world policy will be free from such acts of barbaric terrorism. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u13	Thank you very much, senator. Senator Rafał the locksmith will be the last to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! It is no wonder that on the occasion of this resolution we are looking for some references to what connects these matters with Poland, we are finally in the Polish Senate. Senator Szwed paid tribute by presenting the individual fates of Poles, Senator Klich referred to this event the strategic situation of Poland, Senator Ujazdowski is looking for an ideal community between the American people and the Polish people, Mr Jackowski looked at this issue from the point of view of today and what is happening in the world today. I have another reference to this resolution. In connection with the number of victims, 3,000 victims. Let me remind you in the Polish Senate that for more than 2 thousand days of World War II Poland lost 3,000 citizens every day, one tower with Polish citizens of Jewish origin and another tower with Poles, Polish citizens, Polish citizens. That's the association. This is the context that allows Poles to understand this wound that the American people suffered during these events. This is the lead I followed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u15	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the sake of order, I inform you that the senators, pleno titulo: Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Janusz Gromek, Halina Bieda, Janusz Pęcherz, Władysław Komarnicki, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor and Mariusz Gromko presented their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I'm asking you to go back to the O.R. because we're going to vote in 30 seconds. We are voting on a draft resolution commemorating the victims of terrorist attacks at the World Trade Center on 11 September 2001. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? One senator from the remote voters... Check it out. Senator Łuczak, you still have a chance. [[Thank you.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please state the results of the vote. 90 senators voted, all in favour. [[Applause]] [[Voting No 1]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution commemorating the victims of terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center on 11 September 2001. I thank the representatives of the United States Embassy for coming. Dismissed until 12:30. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 53 to 12 minutes 30]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u16	I'm reopening the session. We proceed to the second item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Radiophony and Television. The text of the Act is contained in print No 482, and the report of the Commission In print No 482 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u17	Dear Senators! Dear Marshal. I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Culture and Media, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Legislation. The committees at the meeting on 17 August... The committees on 6 September held a meeting with experts and invited guests, at which we decided on an opinion on this law. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the Act on Radio and Television amends the rules for granting broadcasting licences to the media with the participation of foreign capital. It provides that a licence for the dissemination of radio and television media may be obtained by an entity established in a Member State of the European Economic Area provided that it is not dependent on a foreign person outside of it. The amendment provides that the concessions granted to the entities referred to in the Act which expire within 9 months from the date of entry into force of that provision shall be extended for 7 months from the date of expiry of the concession, and that proceedings in respect of those entities relating to the award of the concession shall be suspended until the expiry of 7 months from the date of entry into force of the Act. The amendment directly affects TVN Discovery Group, an entity which has been seeking to extend the broadcasting licence of TVN24 since February 2020, but the National Radio and Television Council has still not taken a decision on this matter. The current concession expires on 26 September 2021. The amendment also introduces a change in the way members of the National Radio and Television Council are appointed. They are to be appointed by the President of the Republic of Poland with the consent of the Sejm and the Senate at the request of the Marshal of the Sejm or a group of 35 Members. If within one month of the date of the resolution of the Sejm giving its consent to the appointment of these members of the Senate does not take a decision, this will mean consent. If the Senate does not agree to the appointment of members, the Sejm must propose other candidates. Under the new rules, the National Radio and Television Council is to appoint and dismiss board members, including the President, of state media companies. Ladies and gentlemen, during meeting 3 of the joint committees, we have listened to a dozen experts and opinions from NGOs. The Senate Legislative Office questioned inter alia. adding to the second reading amendment on the selection of the National Radio and Television Council. It's a Confederate amendment. PiS supported it because in return the Confederates abstained from voting, which could have led to the passing of this law. The amendment states that the members of the National Radio and Television Council are to be appointed by the President with the approval of the Sejm and the Senate at the request of a marshal or a group of 35 Members. But such a provision is contrary to the constitution, which says that the members of the National Council are appointed by the Sejm, the Senate and the President of the Republic of Poland. It's such a basic charge against a law in its current form. According to Senate lawyers, the current Radio and Television Act provides for the possibility of refusing to grant, including the extension of the concession, as well as the possibility of withdrawing the concession granted due to security and defence threats, and thus already pursues the objective pursued by the projector. The Legislative Office in its opinion concludes that the amended law should not become part of the legal system because it violates numerous provisions of the Constitution, the provisions of the Treaty on trade and economic relations between the Republic of Poland and the United States of America, drawn up in Washington on 21 March 1990, and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In the meeting and this should be noted The rapporteur and one of the initiators of this law, Mr Marek Suski, did not participate. Nor did he appear at today's meeting, which is regrettable. During the session, the senators listened to experts' opinions on the amendment, including that prepared by the Group of Advisors on constitutionality control at the Marshal of the X-term Senate. As the panel president, Prof. Marek Chmaj, referring to the threads in the opinions of other experts, the law adopted as a result of the illegal resummation of the vote violates the constitutional principles of citizens' trust in the State, the protection of rights rightly acquired, the protection of private property, freedom to conduct media activities and freedom to obtain and disseminate information. It is also incompatible with the Polish-American agreement. The Constitutional Control Advisory Group considered that the so-called "Constitution Control Advisory Group'. Suski's novel is incompatible with the constitution in many points, among others. in Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2, 9, 14, 22, 54, and is incompatible with the Treaty on trade and economic relations between the Republic of Poland and the United States of America. Prof. Hubert Izdebski of the SWPS University found that the termination of the Act of 11 August 2021 amending the Act on Radio and Television aims to make major changes to the electronic media market and to disrupt the media market in the event of entry into force. General rules resulting from the right to good administration and the citizen's confidence in the functioning of public institutions, including the applicant's right to consider the case within a reasonable period of time, have been violated in the national Radio and Television Board of Directors' review proceedings concerning TVN24 channel. Professor Jędrzej Skrzypczak, Professor of the University im. Adam Mickiewicz estimated that in the current situation of the media market in Poland, the law can in principle affect one entity, which has a total of almost 1/4 of the television market in Poland. In addition, numerous solutions in this law, as it seems to have been said by the professor, are instrumental and kazuistic, not systemic. Certainly the consequences for the media market in Poland will be significant, since this would eliminate one of the main media groups with huge journalistic traditions in Poland. In view of the conclusions presented from the studies carried out, the professor said that the consequences of such ownership changes could, in particular, grossly affect media pluralism, guaranteed by the article. 10 European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The representative of the Ombudsman, Director Mirosław Wróblewski, stated that these are arbitrary solutions which should not take place in a democratic state of law. Referring to the failure to grant a concession, Mirosław Wróblewski pointed out that a breach of the principles of a specific public contract between the State and the trader could justify only and only exceptional circumstances which would have to be shown very strongly. There's no such thing. It should be noted that the refusal or withdrawal of a concession would normally be subject to judicial review, but that the amendment by amending the provisions of the Act would result in the possibility of the exercise of business being extinguished by law and the court would not be able to effectively examine, for example, the fact that it is not possible to do so. Mr Mirosław Wróblewski said, "Whether there are real grounds for a threat to the security of the state." Ryszard Schnepf, former Polish ambassador in the United States, analyzed Suski's novel in the light of a trade agreement between Poland and the United States. The law, which was passed by the lower chamber in a mistrial procedure, has caused the deepest crisis since the martial law in Polish-American relations. The vote on this amendment of the Act in the Senate, and then the President's signature of it, will result in reactions that affect all spheres of functioning of the Polish State, from the economy to politics and security. The long-term effect of this conflict will be a drastic decline in trust in Poland as a partner and ally. An amicable, diplomatic tone of statements from different American authorities should not give rise to illusions that the United States' response will remain at a declarative level Retorts will be severe and long-term. The so-called case. lex TVN should be considered not only in the context of infringements of the rules in the economic area but also politically. In the broader sense of inter-state bilateral relations, it is precisely the policy area that can be a key step forward. Following the experience of the previous presidential term and, in particular, after attempting to undermine the results of the elections in the US in 2020, the issue of legal order and fundamental freedoms, including freedom in the media area, has been at the centre of the American State's policy. Perhaps for the first time in history since the founding fathers of the slogan of democracy, equal rights, the rule of law and freedom of speech apply not only to American flags but also to current politics. According to Ambassador Schneider, the list of actions undertaken by the US administration is not closed and it is to be expected that, following warnings, reminders and appeals, the next steps may have a concrete, deliberate direction, including not inviting Poland to the democratic summit planned for December in Washington. It would be a dramatic failure of the prestige of the Polish state, which has confirmed its attachment to freedom, democracy and solidarity for the last 25 years. Personal sanctions against those responsible for triggering the crisis, which has been reported by numerous media, may make more sense. This would de facto mean the inclusion of Poland in the list of countries not meeting the criteria of the democratic state. Ambassador Schnepf also said that, given the voices that flow across the ocean, it should be assumed that if the law enters into force, there will be consequences, which will probably not only concern the issue of prestige, but also the details of the implementation of agreements, among others. about security and, above all, about investment. Anyway, one of the speakers I no longer remember which one of the most important rating agencies was the American agencies during the discussion. In its opinion the Polish Chamber of Electronic Communications... Its representatives said this: our general review of the bill is definitely critical, we consider it harmful, unnecessary and defective. And they advised the senators to reject this bill. PIKE claims that entities with the State Treasury companies, contrary to what PiS claims, could buy TVN shares. The amendment in this case was made by Kukiz'15, which was intended to prevent the companies of the Treasury from taking control of TVN. The Chamber considers that this amendment will not prevent the foundation from acquiring shares or shares in the company of the consignor. In this provision, it is referred to only about state legal persons and companies with the participation of the State Treasury, not about all legal persons with the participation of the State Treasury, i.e. the foundation founded e.g. by the State Treasury companies, according to PIKE, it would probably not have been banned. During the debate, representatives of the TVN Discovery Group took their position. Mikołaj Sowiński, a representative of the company, pointed out that the bill was supposed to bridge the alleged legal gap and prevent circumvention, and there was no such gap and never existed. TVN did not violate or circumvent the law on the capital structure of the sender. Some members of the National Radio and Television Council in public speeches are looking for TVN to circumvent the law at a time when, in recent months, TVN's conclusion that TVN had not violated and cared for the law regarding the capital structure has maintained many legal authorities in the country. That's what happened at our committee meeting. Mr Bartosz Krużewski, also representing TVN, repeated that the Act violates both Polish international obligations vis-à-vis the United States and European laws, moreover, if this law is finally adopted, Poland will break the Treaty on trade and economic relations between Poland and the United States, Poland will also break the Treaty if it does not issue a concession decision for the TVN24 channel. I remind you, September 26th is over. Ladies and gentlemen, Senator Marek Martynowski has tabled on behalf of PiS 2 amendments which were not put to the vote for the adoption by the committees of a motion to reject the bill. The first amendment was deleted in Article. 1 points 1 and 2 proposed by the members of the Confederation, relating inter alia to: to the appointment of members of the National Radio and Television Council and members of state media companies. The second amendment added lips. 5 in Article 5, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 35 the following limits referred to in paragraph: Points 1 and 2 shall not apply to the award of a licence for the dissemination of the programme in a seeding, satellite or telecommunication network other than that used for the dissemination of land-based seeding or satellite seeding. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the meeting... at the meeting, a meeting was held which is an event. The joint proposal of the three committee presidents that were sitting at this meeting. On behalf of the presidents, Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, justifying the motion to reject the bill, said that so far no amendment of the law has been so bad and tragic in its consequences. This project cannot be repaired. All the opinions of experts with whom we have been able to get acquainted clearly show that this law will violate the Polish constitution, numerous national laws, Community legislation binding Poland as a member of the European Union and the international agreement binding the Polish government with the United States government. If in the Polish Parliament we want to uphold civil rights and freedoms, including freedom of the press and the media What Poles have been fighting for since 1989, and before that too The freedom of expression enjoyed not only by the citizen, but also by individual media, economic freedoms, good relations between Poland and other countries, which, like Poles, respect the same set of democratic values of the state, as well as trust in Poland as a responsible partner in international relations, we can only make one decision: reject this project in its entirety. And that's what our motion was voted out. The Commission rejected the proposed law by 23 votes in favour, 11 against. And this is the motion, the motion to reject the bill, to submit to the senators and your marshals. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u18	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u19	Mrs. Marshal! (PL) Madam President, I would like to ask you a few I have two questions. Did at least one of the experts gathered so many times at the meeting consider that the law is in line with the Polish constitution, national law, Community law binding Poland as a member of the European Union or with the provisions of the international agreement on mutual protection of investment concluded between the Polish and American government? And second question. I would like to stress: anyone at the meeting of the 3 joint Senate committees had the courage... if not to defend this law, at least present it to the members of the Senate committees? Did the Member representing the applicants, rapporteur Marek Suski, participate in the meeting? Was the meeting attended by at least one representative of the Government of the United Right, who, at least in the media domain, has defended this law? Or did no one want to defend or present this proposal? There is no rapporteur in this Chamber today, there are no representatives of the government. It is only a shame that such a bill has seen the light of day.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u20	Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u21	Mr Senator, as for the first question, the committee meeting lasted three hours. It presented earlier studies, which I only briefly discussed, and not all of them. There were a lot of interesting conclusions that you could get to know, because they were placed on the Senate sites. I would like to say that these experts were 11, we listened to 11 expert statements. It has been a long time since there has been a situation where all lawyers agree, both in terms of expertise and what was presented at the committee meeting. It was evident that both experts and representatives of our Legislative Office spoke with a common voice. I would also like to point out that this committee meeting was not only exceptional in that this expertise was so much. Well, they were experts in various fields, in the field of constitutional law and international law, practitioners dealing with Polish-American affairs. I must also say that we specifically invited experts from various universities. It wasn't one center, it was universities from different parts of the country. And to answer the second question... I have already addressed this in my report. Indeed, there was no representative of the applicants, the lead Member, Mr Marek Suski. He didn't appear at the committee meeting at all, and, of course, he was invited, as it is customary. There were also no representatives of the government, although there was a representative of the National Radio and Television Council. During the debate, he was given the floor, but he did not refer to the matter presented. I also regret that, as far as senators are concerned, we also received only critical votes on this bill. The only other voice was the submission of amendments by Senator Martynowski. Nobody defended this bill, I don't recall this situation. When in committee proceedings... Today in the Senate is the presentation of de facto one-sounding... maybe not one-sounding, but similar opinions regarding this short bill. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a very short amendment, there are very few sentences, and opinions are crushing. I'd like to say It's my opinion, but I'll allow it. That it is really a shame that there has been such a situation, that from the Seym to the Senate there was such a defective bill. There was no applicant. And the point is that no one in Parliament paid attention to the things our experts have said, and no one has referred to it, and Members have unintelligibly voted in favour of a law that is de facto only suitable for basketball.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u22	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u23	Thank you very much, Marshal. (PL) Madam President, I would like to ask you a few I have a question. Was there a talk at the committee meeting on financial aspects? If this law were adopted literally, in the version adopted in the Sejm, would this not result in compensation proceedings for those who, as a result of the acts of the Act, would be harmed? Was there any wider information about this? I ask you this because the media has information that the adoption of a law or the failure to grant a concession to TVN would involve compensation proceedings. There'd be judgments like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u24	Yeah, that's right. Such warnings were given by some experts. That's what the committee said. However, we did not talk about specific amounts. I draw attention to the fact that it would be difficult to predict what the consequences of lawsuits, legal disputes and what it would look like, but we know that apart from the fact that the TVN Discovery Group itself can take part in this case in a judicial way, we are also threatened by the United States as a state against Poland. It's that kind of thing. I don't talk, and experts didn't say it had to happen, but something like this could happen.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u25	Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u26	Senator! I have a question. Was it mentioned that the National Radio and Television Council committed an official crime? Has TVN fulfilled all the conditions for the issue of the concession? If so, was it considered to report a crime to the prosecutor's office? I'll tell you why I'm asking you this. If it were to be so that the official in Poland, despite all the conditions met by the patentor, e.g. by the investor who filed all the documents... The deadline for the decision is over, and the official of the decision does not make it. Isn't there going to be such a pathology in the country that all officials in Poland, following what the National Radio and Television Council does, which doesn't fulfil its obligations, will stop fulfilling their statutory obligations and will not make decisions despite the submission of all documents and despite deadlines? That's my first question. I would also like to refer to the speech of my previous speaker. Please tell me whether the issue of impact assessment was raised at the committee meeting. As I understand it, there's no compensation in the OSR. Today we know that if a bill were to be passed, it would be multi-billion-dollar. I guess no one in their right mind has any doubt that the United States and TVN are not going to let go of taking their property, in fact, despite meeting all the criteria. So two questions, one more time... Isn't that an official crime? I know there's a vote there, it's clear, but if someone votes against, even though all the criteria are met, then I think they're committing a crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u27	Thank you very much. There was no mention at the committee meeting of the fact that this was a crime, whereas many experts and speakers, including the senators, paid attention to this aspect. I remind you that the absence of a concession for TVN24, which is a separate matter, different from the law we are talking about today, I will explain it right now, because it is important and maybe it has not been explained enough... The absence of this concession or the granting of the concession belongs to the National Council of Radiophony and Television, it is the duty of the constitutional regulator of the media market in Poland. Since it is such an obligation, this means that the National Council should take a decision. I don't speak for or against, but any decision. And that's what I said in the report. Then TVN could appeal, for example. to the courthouse. That's how this road was prevented. This is, in my opinion, also contrary to Polish law. This makes it impossible for the victim, the TVN Discovery Group, to proceed. I'd also like to say, in terms of the cost of all this, the cost of the trial... Well, we didn't do it, so it would have to be... First the trial would have to end, sometimes things that go on for many years. But I draw your attention to this... Let us not focus on these processes, on these compensations, etc., because in this bill we have something that assumes a very fast process. It's just that it's all going on, the TV stays... the Discovery Group has to sell its shares to no one in the first place, no one knows where, no one knows how it would end, maybe even the liquidation of the entire group... And this would mean a complete remodeling of the media market in Poland. I also point out that if we reject this And I think that's the way it's gonna be. Or, if we don't, if the president vetoes this bill, it doesn't change the situation of the TVN24 channel. I would like to point out this: this will not change this situation, because the law applies to all TVN channels, not just TVN24. [[I'm just gonna ask you a very short question...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u28	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr... Just keep it down to a minute... [[Very briefly.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u29	Senator, that's what I thought. And, for example, do you know what I'm talking about? Some Russian oligarch could buy some of the shares from Discovery if Discovery has to sell the shares? E.g. registered in London a Russian oligarch company could buy these shares Or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u30	I would prefer not to make such dramatic prophecies and assumptions here. I am the committee's rapporteur, so I would prefer to speak on this as a politician, not as a committee's rapporteur... But they were presented with various kinds of threats. One of them I talked about, that's what PIKE was talking about, for example. Some company of the State Treasury, Polish, is setting up a foundation that buys these shares. And you can imagine many other scenarios, even worse.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u31	Thank you very much. Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Dear Senator, I have two short questions. First question: whether an amendment to the law, if it is Let's hope not. "Accepted, will not violate the treaty on trade and economic relations between Poland and the USA? Of course, the financial consequences were mentioned here, and I would like you to say whether the committee was talking about this in a broader way. And the other one... I was at that committee meeting, so I remember, but I'd like to ask... Because it was also about the aspect of the viewer in the context of the bill passed, it was one such voice. Can you bring us up to speed on this? What's the conclusion? Because we're talking about all the financial and legal implications, the expertise, but we're not talking about the consequences for TVN 24 viewers. And I very much regret that, unfortunately, there is no Member of the applicant, which is such an arrogance to me in front of the upper chamber and our committee. And no one from the government. It would be so that we can question those who are the authors of this bill. This is bad practice. Yet I believe that the Polish Parliament should be guided by good practice, also in the dialogue on important laws. Thank you very much and...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u33	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u34	Thank you very much. As far as violations are concerned, I mentioned them all in my statement. As I said, this law violates a number of international and bilateral agreements between Poland and the United States. That's one thing. Second, already responding to the relevant... Thank you for reminding me of this important element. You touched Senator Aleksander Pociej in your speech. Ladies and gentlemen, TVN, this whole group, is a group that gathers about 34 million viewers, 34 million Poles. These people are attached to their programs, to their favorite journalists, to their favorite TV shows, etc., etc. This bill could mean that all of this would be taken away from the viewers. So that not only the pluralism we were talking about, such information, would be violated, but would also be affected by the welfare of Poles, such goods to access their favourite television, as we emphasized. And I'd like to remind you Because I should also say that the introduction of this law will cause huge protests in Poland. Throughout Poland thousands of people went out on the streets and protested, fighting in defence of the media. I would also like to stress that more than a thousand journalists and heads of the most important media in Poland signed a protest letter on lex TVN. I think all senators should take into account these protests and the aspect of viewers who may be deprived of their favorite television. And there are a lot of channels there, as you know.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u35	Thank you very much. Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator, a short question, because one of the previous speakers asked for opinions in the context of compliance with Community law. I would like to ask you about the two opinions issued by the Sejm Office for Sejm Analysis. Were they presented at the meetings of the joint committees and what were these opinions? This concerns opinions drawn up by the Office for the Seym Analysis of the Sejm Chancellery in the context of compliance with European Union law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u37	Dear Senator, it is not in the habit of presenting the opinions of the Sejm's office at the senate committee meetings. We have our own office. Excellent, working for many years And we have the opinions of this office. In this case we have also invited experts from all over Poland. I'd like to tell you. and I have already expressed my opinion on this subject. I am surprised that such a thing came out of the Sejm at all, that the Members voted, as they voted, because they should have gained the same knowledge on this subject as the senators in the Senate obtained. Legal knowledge of all the risks involved in this law. I would also like to remind you that we are not obliged to follow those opinions which are in the Seym. And no matter how much I regret the end of the parliamentary vote, I would also like to say that there may be no exclusion here, but the course itself, the proceding and the resummation later, etc. They have had a terrible impact on opinions about what happened in the Seym.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u38	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u39	If you don't mind, Mrs. Marshal. Senator, I didn't ask about the rule, I didn't ask about the customs, because of course I know the customs. There was a statement here that there were only negative opinions. You referred directly to the law itself, not to the opinions that were at the meeting, among others. Sejm expressed. So that not all of them were negative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u40	Mr. Senator... [[Excuse me, I'm in correction mode.]] Senator Szejnfeld, please...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u41	Maybe I'll make another point, if I may, Mrs. Marshal. Once again, I stress: we have no obligation to follow the opinions of the Sejm. Moreover, I say this as chairman of the committee, perhaps the Head of the Legislative Commission will also say something about this. We have very limited confidence in the opinions presented by the office in the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u42	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Szejnfeld. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u43	Thank you very much, Marshal. We are dealing with a fundamentally important issue here. We are dealing not only with an attempt to break the Constitution, a violation of the constitutional principle of freedom of speech, but also with a trial or an element of a process that... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, question, minute...]] I'm just asking you a question, Mrs. Marshal. ... a process which seems to be aimed, in the finale, at changing the state of the Republic of Poland. Since all the opinions that the rapporteur has spoken of are in denial of the legal and factual basis, on the one hand, of the legislative initiative and, on the other hand, of the failure to grant concessions, I would like to ask whether it is a legitimate, legitimate view that we are dealing with a non-legal action, not aimed at the interest of the Polish State, but at an action aimed at the interest of one political party, which wants to make a change, an attempt on the regime of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u44	Thank you very much. And the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u45	Yeah, that'll be a political response, but I'll say yes. In this case, we are dealing with a situation in which de facto illegal... all these opinions, in colloquial, illegal language... What are those opinions really about? The fact that we're dealing with a crazy, anti-constitutional, illegal project. And this project goes through the Sejm, the Members vote in favour of this law, despite the fact that there have been many statements in public about the fact that this law is unacceptable. I draw your attention to this. To answer the senator's question, I would not like to go too far, but I must say that this is done with full awareness that a project is being sent to the Senate, which is lawlessness, simply lawlessness. This situation actually allows us to ask questions about the state system, about the importance of parliament, about how it is applied in the Sejm, and about what this causes the unprecedented, previously unknown consequences.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u46	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u47	Thank you very much, Marshal. Madam President, you mentioned that, but I would like you to develop that thought. At the stage of the Parliament's work, there was such information that a group of Members had introduced an amendment to the draft aimed at preventing any company of the State Treasury from being able to buy shares which might have to be disposed of if the law entered into force. Then there was information that it wasn't. If you'd like to explain to the High Sejm... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka, Senate.]] ...in the light of this knowledge which we have and which was presented at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, which results from these studies, does this picture emerge that... If this law were adopted in the form in which it came out of the Sejm, if it entered into legal circulation in Poland, would the company of the Treasury or with the participation of the State Treasury acquire such shares, or could it not?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u48	I'm gonna talk about that amendment. I have already said some things in the report here. It is so that this amendment, tabled and subsequently accepted by the PiS Members, also by the applicants, i.e. by Mr Suski, despite the fact that he is incompatible with the constitution, which is immediately disqualifying for her, I remind you, he really introduces us to many of the mines that experts have spoken about. By shortening my statement, I would say that it would not benefit even any political side. This is the kind of amendment that, and I guess, Law and Justice just didn't think about it. It can also settle the interests of law and justice, the head of current television, etc., etc. So the President's announcement of vetoing this law doesn't surprise me either, because it's an amendment that's not good for anyone and, I stress, it's unconstitutional. The senator asked me something at the end, about the other aspect... [[No. I mean, in general, is this about...]] Oh, the Treasury companies, yeah. [[Can State Treasury companies acquire these shares if they are sold or not? If this amendment were to enter the market, if this law had been adopted with this amendment. It's about explaining it.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if the bill is prepared in such a hurry... We didn't say that... we were talking about it being a parliamentary project. What does that mean? This means that she is not subject to any consultation, that this project is not sufficiently assessed, that this project is not even discussed at the club that reported it. There was a great haste, a seymous bill of this kind, and yet during the legislative process there appeared further uploads, i.e. these famous amendments. I'll answer the question: I don't know, I don't know, I can't say it. This amendment would probably mean that these companies could not make such a purchase. Directly intent may have been good, but it ended badly like this. Because, just like I noticed, for example. for the opinion of PIKE, there are possibilities to circumvent this, among others. by e.g. establishing a foundation by some huge entity, a company of the Treasury or something like that and buying it out by the foundation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u49	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. Are you a senator? [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u50	Mrs. Marshal! Senator! I'll repeat what I think is already here, but this has to be marked. The fact that there is no rapporteur here and no representative of this crazy idea shows how the Law and Justice treats not only us but also the citizens of the Republic. That's why I'm asking, Senator... I looked at the transcript of the Sejm meeting, where Mr Suski says so... So that it is not that the statement taken out of context, I quote: "This law, I repeat once again, does not introduce any new fundamental changes." And then he says that these solutions are identical to those in other countries of the European Union, such as France and Germany. My question also arises from some historical events... We with the senator are already a term of office and remember how from this stand a representative of the rule of law and justice said that everything that is introduced in the judiciary is the same as what is in Spain and Germany. Well, it was obvious lies and nonsense. That is why I ask: have you talked about this and was this also the subject of an opinion on the situation in other countries of the European Union? And I'm gonna ask the second question right away so I don't speak again. Mrs. Senator, in the opinions that the committee has received so many, and the discussion raises a very important problem... Because there are many voices about the problems of the assassination of freedom, the assassination of democracy here, and the report and the information from the opinion were also about that. However, the question is: was it considered both in opinions and in discussions about the harmfulness of the image of Poland in the world? If we are talking about a great fall in investment, we must note that, among other things, such movements cause us to be seen in the world as a completely unpredictable country. Was such an economic theme, apart from this media thread, the assassination of the media, also touched? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u51	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u52	I didn't bring a pen so I wouldn't get lost... But if you need anything, please remind the senator if I forget something. Dear Senator, when it comes to this madness that has happened, that is a good word, but I would like to say that there is a method in this madness. In fact, despite Mr Suski's assurances that it doesn't change anything, it changes a lot, it simply destroys the entire media market in Poland, it leads to a situation, as I said, a breakdown of media pluralism, but also to the loss of their favorite television by the viewers. If we are talking about this method and if we compare it as it is in other countries, nowhere, please, in any other European countries, does the countries of the European Union have such a situation. Except Hungary. Nowhere in any other country is there a situation where similar solutions would be used. Such solutions come directly from laws that were pushed in Russian Duma. Senator Brejza spoke about this in his speech at the committee meeting, and I hope that he will come back to this again. As far as the Hungarian case is concerned, we know that there is basically We can say There are already only government media, party media. And all the others, the others, are working, organizing social gatherings, without any access to anything. We don't want that. Mr Suski answers the question directly and says that this bill doesn't change anything, just lies, just lies.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u53	Thank you... [[Mrs. Marshal, let me just remind you...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u54	The senator asked for it. The question of Poland's image as regards such initiatives, i.e. economic stability. Has this been mentioned in opinions? Did you talk about it?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u55	Yeah, that was also discussed at the committee meeting. This is an unusual situation, because I will remind you of the protests that took place in Poland on the issue of lex TVN, which echoed widely both in Poland and in the United States. This was addressed by the serious European institutions and by the serious people in the establishment of American policy. We had a few... It all went into the world, it all appeared in the newspapers, there were pictures of protests, there was information about an unprecedented number of signatures in Poland under the protest letter initiated by the Wyborcza and OKO. press. I must say that in many countries among journalists, among many politicians, there were also expressions of solidarity among people of culture in defending the freedom of Polish media. So that all of this affects Poland's image badly in Europe and in the world. It can later be rebuilt for many, many years, because it's very easy to spoil your reputation, but it's very difficult to fix. Mr Schnepf spoke very interestingly about this, which emphasized this loss of trust, trust from our most important ally. It was also noted that all these opinions of American politicians, their statements reached the economic spheres very quickly and, as we have said, warning about this, this may result in the withdrawal of various types of investors from Poland. This may threaten other interests of ours as well. This isn't my department, and I don't want to get into it, but it's about defense matters, things like that... you're gonna be talking about it, Senator Strictly. I'm talking about credit rating agencies. Ladies and gentlemen, Poland has issued ratings, which are actually read by the entire economic establishment around the world, by all entrepreneurs. The most important agencies are in American hands. If we break our reputation, we have nothing to count on good reputation and good ratings of Poland. What does that mean? This will be followed not only by the United States but also by other countries around the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u56	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask Senator Czerwinski's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u57	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Jerzy Czerwinski. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Jerzy Czerwiński, of course.]] Great. I would like to return to the substance of the issues relating to the bill under consideration, i.e. the content of this law. There have been numerous instances, both in the statements of the Senator representing the applicants, the rapporteur of the committee and in the opinions, of two categories. Namely the law or the content of the law, this amendment supposedly led to violations of the principle of freedom of obtaining information, let us briefly say the principles of freedom of the media. Could you directly quote an article that violates the principle of freedom of the media and which is included in this amendment? Because I'm sure the viewers who are watching us would like to know the contents of this article.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u58	I don't think the viewers want to look into the provisions of this article. Mr. Senator, I'm not a lawyer, which is why I've presented expert opinions on this subject, so please reach for them. I also invite those who are so deeply interested in legal matter: please reach... Unfortunately, I left them on my desktop, but there's this thick book of opinions. It explains all the aspects you're asking the senator about. I can't find it directly right now... There, several articles in this small novel were referred to. Small, because she is not long, but to many of her points there were a whole lot of reservations, there were reservations. I'm sending the senator back to this. I'd have to find it... If you want, I'll search it out and send it to you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u59	Thank you very much. [[If you don't mind, Mrs. Marshal...]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u60	I was referring specifically to the content of one of the articles of the amendment, because it is you who are suggesting, just the content of the article, not the opinion, because everyone can have their opinion. I'd like to appeal again... I'm gonna ask the auxiliary question. As I said, here is identified by the law, in the amendment the restriction on the ownership of capital, which has a given television station or radio station, mainly the capital which operates in the media, with the violation of freedom of expression. But we've already made some kind of experience. Of course not us, senators... [[Voice from the room: Question, question...]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Question, Mr. Senator.]] I'm on my way to the question right now. ITI and Canal+ in 2015 in March sold their shares to Scripps Networks Interactive. Then, in 2017, this company sold them to the company. or are all private entities It's called Discovery. It didn't change, I would call it, the freedom of opinion raised by the TVN station or the TVN channels didn't change the personnel cast, at least I didn't notice it. Well, since twice this kind of property change process didn't cause the dangers you're talking about and maybe they're also mentioned in your opinions... [[Mr. Senator, maybe I...]] ...then on what basis is this going to change now?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u61	Mr. Senator, I don't suppose I... [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marek Suski would answer.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marek Suski will answer these questions when someone tells me here. But this is obviously a joke. And on this point, I would like to say that... I don't know, I don't remember if you were present at the committee meeting, but on this point... [[I've been sitting on a rock the whole time and listening to you.]] This was addressed by the former President of the National Radio and Television Council, Mr Jan Dworak, and he explained the matter in detail. I am surprised that you, having such doubts, did not speak at the committee meeting at all. You should have asked him, you should have asked him. I'm not a lawyer. But Mr. Jan Dworak, as I say, explained it very thoroughly and overturned all the allegations or suggestions that are out there in public circulation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u62	Thank you very much...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u63	I'm sorry, Mrs. Marshal, because I didn't understand. So he overthrew the unctim property change and the impact of this property change on the program, on, say, the personnel cast, on the software line? I remember what you said to the Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council. He was telling the facts, but that's not what the luncti was betting on... [[This is not a debate.]] And that's why I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u64	I'm sorry, I'm really sorry, but this isn't the matter of the bill at all. It's not even the matter of the bill. That's what I'm paying attention to.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u65	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Brejza. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u66	Thank you very much, Marshal. Senator, these solutions are a copy, they're transferred alive from the Russian Duma solutions. In October 2014, Vladimir Putin, in connection with the crisis at the Ukrainian border and the aggression in the Crimea, wanted to submit to independent media. I would like to ask you a question: is it true that this is a copy and that the Russian solutions assumed that foreign capital would be reduced to 20%? And is it also true that you will confirm that the fate of the American Discovery in Russia was 7 years ago so that after the entry into force of almost the same law, the Americans had to sell their shares and to whom? NMG, a Russian friend of Putin's, Mr. Yuri Kowalczuk. This man through NMG has adopted 11 media related to Discovery. And do you also have such knowledge that in Russian Pride, the Putinists argued that such open, independent media pose a threat to Russia's security and that supposedly the West is running some kind of hybrid information war? That's the first question. The second question will be a little historic. Mrs. Senator, is this law in line with the achievements of Polish August, and in particular with the third postulate of the 1980 'Solidarity', which spoke about pluralism and freedom of the media and the media?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u67	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u68	Thank you very much, Senator. About your first question. Well, you've already told me about the matter yourself. It was not widely discussed at the meeting of our committee, but I must say that in public circulation there were voices of experts and persons who examined that law adopted in the Russian Duma, indicating its astonishing similarities to the law presented in the Sejm. I must say with regret... I don't want to make any theories here, but these solutions are quite similar. And I think we can only, as I have said many times, regret that this is happening. I wouldn't want to go too far because it wasn't the committee's conclusions, but in fact, these similarities are so huge that they can't be random, in my opinion. Yeah, but that's just my opinion. As for the August postulates, I will say that during the debates devoted to the media, we repeatedly referred to the achievements of August, to what this agreement meant, and to how important it is that then, after all, the workers' protest was so important freedom of the media. How wonderful it was and why we in Poland today, which is known as a democratic country, forget about such things that the workers in Gdańsk remembered, placing them among their postulates.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u69	Thank you very much. Please ask Senator Sławomir Rybicki's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I would like to continue, but in a different way than Senator Czerwiński, the question of the principles of freedom of speech. Mrs. Senator, isn't it that it's not a specific provision of this law that only the entire law in its entirety strikes an entity that legally, while respecting the legal order, has exercised its powers on the basis of the concession granted? Isn't that the fact that this is just a hit on an entity that I implement the principle of freedom of expression, not one provision of this law, but the whole of this law, which destroys this constitutional value?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u71	I remind you that legal assessments were made from different points of view. One way of assessing is to assess the individual paragraphs, their compatibility, etc., and the other way is to assess the effects that the law creates. And this law is dramatically harmful in terms of its impact. It is dramatically harmful because it de facto eliminates one of the most important television in Poland, a whole group of programs so eagerly watched by Poles. And we know very well how risky it is to sell it or take over it by not knowing which capital or take it by de facto government using e.g. Some foundation or some other clown that might be summoned, found.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u72	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski again.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u73	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator! The question is about the mother's law. 'Cause we're changing the original radio and television bill here. In connection with the U.S. trade treaty, let's call it In a nutshell. The treaty, which introduced the principles of reciprocity and the principles of investment protection, was from 1990, while the mother law of 1992, if I recall, but in the mother's law there were restrictions on the share of foreign capital of up to 49%, but up to 33%. So this law was much more restrictive. Tell me if there were protests at the time, or if there was, let's just say, an elaborate action that was supposed to undermine the meaning of the Radio and Television Act, as I say, which sets out much further restrictions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u74	Thank you very much. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u75	We didn't talk about this at the committee meeting at all, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u76	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was introduced by Members. Mr Marek Suski was authorised to present the position of the Members of the bill's applicants. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz... [[But what?]] Because the marshal came forward, and I don't know if the formal conclusion... [[I wanted to put a question to Mr Marek Suski.]] Unfortunately, Mr Suski is not in the room, and there is no representative... [[And the government representative?]] There is no representative. [[Because I also wanted to put a question to a government representative. So it's the way it was at the committee meeting. Well, a representative of the National Council was at a committee meeting. Besides, I'd like to ask him, too. Is it?]] There isn't. [[There isn't. So we're sitting in our own senate circle. Thank you.]] As a matter of fact, I don't... That's why I wanted to end it. Since neither the applicant's representative nor the government representative nor any of the invited guests appeared at the Senate meeting, there is no one to ask questions. [[And very well...]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of the senator, Mr. Marshal Michael Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u77	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My children want to stay in the European Union, I want to stay in the European Union and I am convinced that most Poles want to stay in the European Union. That's why I'm going to vote for throwing lex TVN in the basket. I hope, however, that along with the lex TVN law, something much more important will be thrown out into the basket, or that at least such an attempt will be made, which is at the heart of both lex TVN and the entire hybrid war, which we have witnessed since 2015. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, since 2015, there has been a hybrid war with our freedom, a hybrid war with the presence of Poland in the West, both in the practical dimension of this presence, and I refer to our membership in the European Union, our membership in the North Atlantic Alliance, as well as in the symbolic dimension. This crew, which today's lex TVN law raises its hand to freedom of speech, it also has a symbolic dimension, whenever it can, raising its hand on all the important aspects of our Western membership. Not without a Cossack, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki began his office by laying wreaths on the graves of the only Polish armed formation that collaborated with Hitler during World War II. The laying of flowers on the graves of the Świętokrzyski Brigade, cursed by the London government, cursed by the National Party in the region, was a conscious choice of Mateusz Morawiecki. This showed what tradition he was referring to. This is not a tradition of Polish freedom. I am talking about this today, precisely in the context of the lex TVN Act, because I repeat, under this crew, we are witnessing a war with our freedom. Yesterday's words by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm, Mr Terletki, confirm very clearly something that the PiS state has not wanted to confirm since 2015. You can't reconcile the image of the state you're carrying in the heart of Jarosław Kaczyński and his acolytes, with the state you want to be a member of the European Union and the North Atlantic Alliance. And that bill you dared to propose is an example of that. But after all, there are many examples that Poland, which you want to build, does not fit in the standards of the West. In order not to look far, you can reach even the words of the current Minister of Education, both those about the European Union, in which he compared the European Union to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, and those which clearly show that Mr Czarnko is not on the way with a secular school, which is today the norm in Europe. And now the free media. Why was a law passed that was aimed at TVN? Like I said, this is part of this larger war with different aspects of our freedom. The fact that we use the name lex TVN, that today on our side you can see the logo of this television, can give the wrong impression that we are dealing with a conflict of a private company with the Polish government. Moreover, it is a private company with American capital. That's not true. Here we are dealing with a fundamental dispute concerning our place in the West, because our place in the West... This Poland, which we seemed to have built together after 1989, is based on several standards. These standards are among others. respect for freedom of speech, as well as respect for this symbolic Third Republic, which we built against the Polish People's Republic, but also against what was wrong in the Polish tradition before the war. We consciously talked about this after 1989. President Lech Kaczyński and other leaders of our country after 1989 also spoke to the tradition of independence of socialism, to the tradition of Christian democracy, to the tradition of the folk movement, to those traditions which placed not only Polish independence very high, but also to individual freedom of Poles, because these values, independence of our country and individual freedom of Poles are inseparable. In 1980 we screamed "there is no freedom without solidarity. " Today we can say that there is no freedom without free media. Because we want to stay in the European Union, we will vote against this law today. We are convinced that, as this law will pass to the past, this attempt to forbid us from free television, so the attempt to expel Poland from the West will soon come into history, an attempt to save us for a return to the Moscow yoke. This isn't gonna work because we're a free nation, and we're not gonna let that happen. We will be helped by the free media that will tell the truth, the truth that you want to get us out of the European Union. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, we need to put a dot over the 'i'. The bill before which we stood in the Senate today is a clear declaration of the war of freedom of speech in Poland. And don't beat around the bush. This bill will not only not be able to improve This is an act hostile to freedom of speech in Poland. This is a challenge to the achievements of Solidarity and our individual efforts to make Poland different. I am talking about the 1980s, I am also talking about the end of the 1970s, I am talking about what many Poles are in prisons and communist detentions. It was, among other things. Freedom of speech. Freedom of speech was a magnet that attracted us to opposition. Freedom of speech was what told us to put aside individual matters and devote ourselves to public work. This law undermines the acquis of.Solidarity. He's also undermining the constitution. It is not so, my dears, that we in this Chamber are accustomed to breaking the constitution, although not for the first time the majority of the Seym and the Senate minority are in a clear and insolent way in favour of breaking the Constitution. We're used to protesting. Throwing this law into the trash will be a form of opposition to the next act of violation of the Constitution. You have been breaking the Constitution since the end of 2015. You broke it on the occasion of subjugating the Constitutional Tribunal, from which you made fiction. You broke it when you subpoenaed the D.A.'s office and the department. You broke it when you were robbing people, taking public television. When you were jumping public television and turning it into the propaganda machinery of this government, you broke the constitution, too. And you know very well that you're breaking the constitution like it's everyday bread. But we're not used to it. We have not got used to this as have most Poles. Every time, we'll remind you that you're breaking the constitution if it comes to that. Today we remind you here, in the Senate, that to stand up for the contested law means to break the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. We also remind you that this is a challenge to democratic principles. Democracy is not only elections, democracy is not just a procedure, democracy is also freedom and civil rights. If someone violates civil rights, they also violate democracy. And this is the intention of the PiS today to distance this democracy from Poles, so that Poles can enjoy less and less democracy, to close their mouths to those who want to speak on one of the independent televisions, and close their ears, to defy those who hear about what power does. The media aren't a transmission belt for power, the media are there to inform citizens about what power does. And this power, the power of the PiS and associated political parties strives to hide their scams, their nepotism and their political corruption from public sight. And for that, you need to shut down TVN. You have the government television you stole from the citizens. In the meantime, you have led to the gas promotion of regional and local journals and the acquisition of information portals related to these journals. This is how it happened with the Polish Press, with the help of Orlen. Polish Orlen carried out the action that Gazprom had previously carried out in Russia, Vladimir Putin. This gas promotion of Poland Press took place relatively mildly. But if you think it's the same with taking control of TVN, you're wrong. The United States is not San Escobar, the United States is one of the greatest powers in the world, until recently the largest power in the world. You can't handle the United States in this confrontation course you've been going on for months. We also need to be clear: this bill you are declaring... This law is an act hostile to the United States, this law deepens the crisis that you have caused in relations between us, Poland and the Americans. This bill goes much further. This bill is a precise blow to the very heart of American democracy. Because American democracy is based, among other things, on freedom of speech. What is the first amendment to the United States Constitution? That the legislator will not limit freedom of expression in any act. And you want not only to limit freedom of speech in Poland, but you are doing a heist on the property of the American Discovery Group in Poland. So you hit what is most sacred to the Americans, among other things: freedom of speech. But you're going even further because you're hitting the American business. The American interest is the investment of Discovery in Poland, i.e. the TVN group. I don't know if you realize what you're doing. I don't know if you actually think the United States is some kind of non-existent country. Perhaps you forgot, and perhaps you never knew that the Polish-American alliance was founded on common values and that the Americans were defending Polish security with their military presence not only because of their interests, but because of the values which were at the heart of this strategic relationship between Warsaw and Washington, shaped from the very beginning, since the first visit of Lech Walesa to Congress, from the moment our diplomacy did everything for many years to strengthen these strategic relations. Because without American support, Poland will no longer be as safe as it was. Therefore, reconciling the interests of the United States, in the heart of American democracy, in the American most important investment in Poland means an act hostile to the United States. The consequences of this hostile act will be visible and you must be aware of them, because if you do not realize it, then you know nothing about contemporary international relations. And something to finish. Those benches are empty. There's no one there. And there should be representatives of the government, there should be representatives of the Sejm, there should finally be representatives of the National Radio and Television Council. Why aren't they here? Because they're ashamed. Because they know what the law is. Because they can't defend him. Because they have no reason to defend this right. So you can say that it's like a fairy tale about the Red Riding Hood: today, by virtue of this bill, the Red Riding Hood has turned out to be a wolf, all the curtains have fallen. You're talking about power, and it's all about power! You mean power for one party, one environment and one man, not the interests of Poles and Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u80	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u81	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The problem of media freedom has become one of the most important issues for Poles and for us, the democratic majority senators, since the very beginning. It is with concern that we observe not only the last draft of the so-called law. lex anti-TVN, but also the whole process which aims to subdue the most important media of power or to eliminate the reluctant broadcasters. After the brutal lesson we could observe in Hungary, it is easy to see how many solutions are now directly copied by the PiS government. In countries with established democracy, there is no doubt today that free media exist in the country ruled by Viktor Orbán, and censorship becomes the daily practice of broadcasters under the full control of the state. As a lively reminder of the situation that we have been dealing with for years in Russia or Belarus, where authoritarianism is gradually and methodically condemning all forms of pro-democratic behaviour. In Poland warning signals have also appeared in recent years so much that the growing concern about freedom of speech has its deep justification. It was on TV that Jack Kurski was removed from the interviewers before the broadcast of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help, and the weather anchor from the Poznań branch of TVP lost her job for appearing with such an emblem on the air. I do not even mention how to report a strike of women and other inconvenient to the ruling events, because just counting them because of the multitude of these incidents is a long list of wicked and anti-democratic practices today. The same is true of TVP's specific hate sessions against opposition leaders and with the programme propaganda of the success of the past era. Such examples could be multiplied indefinitely, showing how much you are trying in the media, now only commonly called public, restricting freedom of speech and distorting the meaning of the message. Any programs or even stations that have been considered relatively independent so far are consistently marginalized or de facto brought to an end in their current form, as evidenced by the recent history of the fall of the Radio Trio. The recent takeover by the state-owned company Orlen Group Polska Press remains equally shocking, which is not only an example of media concentration under the government's control, but was also held against the decision of the District Court in Warsaw, which suspended the agreement of the UOKiK to complete this transaction. Moreover, for all these harmful and anti-democratic actions the PiS government has allocated PLN 2 billion to public media from taxpayers' pockets each year for 5 years. That means 10 billion zlotys in our pockets. Today we have come to a point where, instead of taking care of media pluralism, there is an attempt to legally eliminate the largest private broadcasters from the market. The open war that the government has declared on TVN and TVN24 is really an attempt to gain or destroy the last such important free media fortress. It's a hysterical fight against uncomfortable truth and a place immune to official propaganda. The acquisition by state-owned companies or even partial elimination from the market of broadcasters of such an entity as TVN would, as a rule, crown the destruction process according to the Hungarian model. The draft law was carried out in the Sejm in violation of the law, in violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, and in addition: without public consultation, without taking into account the votes of experts, contrary to the public opinion, which explicitly considers the proposal of this new law to be harmful and the lack of access to reliable information and the possibility of freely shaping its views as dangerous. In the Senate of the Republic of Poland, we have a duty not only to oppose these destructive practices, rejecting harmful draft laws, but also to expose this mechanism. The media ownership mechanism And propaganda content designed to mask this apparent lawlessness. There is currently no justification, there is no legal basis for not granting the concession to TVN. The station operates in accordance with applicable law. And extending the renewal of this concession indefinitely is nothing more than waiting for a new law which, contrary to the applicable law, contrary to the Polish constitution and contrary to international agreements, would eliminate an inconvenient entity from the home media market for the government. The rules for the award of concessions are clearly set out, clearly described in Article. The 35th Radio and TV Act hasn't changed so far. It is enough to respect the law, respect the constitution and international agreements concluded and good standards. So the question arises: what are the real intentions of the initiators of this law? It must also be borne in mind that they consistently avoid confronting experts in the field of media law, European law and business conditions in Poland. The authors of the project are well aware that in all these areas their project is simply an illegal and unacceptable act. In this respect, for example, the absence of Senate committees Mr Marek Suski, one of the authors of this project, is the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Legislative Affairs. It is not only a lack of courage, but also a lack of competence for substantive discussion. Finally, what are the economic consequences of the possible entry into force of this harmful document? Since it is breaking in an unprecedented way the Freedom of Business Act and is aimed directly at one of the most important American investors, in the near future this could mean total paralysis of foreign investment in our country and another embarrassment of the state in the international arena. The instability of the law is a clear alarm signal for potential external investors. Moreover, the direct consequence of the proposed law may be the need to pay millions of compensations, the costs of which are known to be borne by the Polish taxpayer. Observing even a series of events over the past few months, it is easy to note that Poland is also threatened with financial penalties for the unlawful establishment and maintenance of the Disciplinary Board and the failure to execute the judgments of the TSUE in this respect. or the environmentally harmful activities of the Power Plant, not to mention the possibility of blocking funds from European funds. The question therefore arises as to how much more destructive and illegal government action will have legal, image and economic consequences. The proposed law must be rejected in its entirety as contrary to the constitution, international law, the economic interests of the country and the fundamental principles of the functioning of the democratic rule of law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u82	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u83	High Senate! Ladies and gentlemen! The rulers are moving on. The question is, where's the border? Where's the line they won't cross? Art. 54 (1) (a) 1 of the Constitution provides: Everyone shall be free to express their views and to obtain and disseminate information. It's given to everyone. Every one of you, every one of our citizens. He has the right to disseminate such information as he considers appropriate. This provision is strengthened by the constitutional powers of the National Radio and Television Council, as Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 1 reads: The National Radio and Television Council upholds the freedom of expression, the right to information and the public interest in radio and television. There is also a 1992 law on the National Radio and Television Council, a law on radio and television, which says that information must be pluralistic, reliable. Is such information in state centres, which we legally refer to as public centres? Many times, when we discussed public television, we said that it is television, which is an extension of the government, that it is television that squeals, writes untruths, speaks untruths and with which it is hard to agree. This television as a principle takes the mixing of facts with their assessment and commentary. And that's the situation we've been dealing with for a few years since the PiS took over power. You answer our comments: we won the election, so what is it? You mean you won the election and you can do whatever you want? Breaking the rules of the law? Break the constitution? Public television. Is it public television? This concept has different meanings, at least two. Public. You've said many times that we have our TV, and you have your TV. I disagreed with this division, and I disagree, but I recall what you said. So you took over the public television you call yours, and it was the first stage, and now you want to take over the one you call not yours. I would like to ask a question to the Member who runs this scandalous bill, but he is not there. He wasn't at the committee meeting. He's not here today. There's no government, there's no National Council. I understand that the creators... Also this creator whose name I will not mention, and regardless of what he does, this bill will be his law, regardless of the fact that this law is the law of his party, he is the company of this law... I would like to ask the question: on what models is this law based? I don't think it's Hungarian. I am observing what is currently happening in Russia, destroying the last elements of independent media. Television was removed from distribution and cable a few years ago. There were a million people watching it, and now it's on the Internet, and there's 7,000 of them. And it's not over yet, because she also received the title of a foreign agent. If this law passes, the PiS will of course go after other media, and will not leave freedom on the Internet. There are examples, we know what it looks like, we know what the next steps look like after taking over large television, private, public, of course there is a turn for the next. I also hear voices like, "What's going on here? I mean, there's been some kind of ownership change, so, anyway. There's also going to be some ownership change here, which means the owner has to sell 51%. shares. He's gonna leave 49 and nothing's gonna change. Well, you don't have to pretend to be stupid and say things like that. 'Cause that's pretending to be stupid, to say the youth language. Of course it's a hit on that TV that isn't subjugated to the PiS, which is why it's a hit. What are the opinions? I'm gonna read some pieces. Dr Paweł Marcisz from the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Warsaw writes that the Act of 11 August on the amendment of the Law on the Rescue of Television is incompatible with the law of the European Union, specifically with the article. 49 of the Treaty is a restriction on freedom of establishment and the proposed regulations of the European Union are not known, which should be taken into account in assessing its compatibility. Dr. hab. Sylwia Majkowska-Szulc from the University of Gdańsk. We're looking at the conclusion. The analysis of the amending law regarding its compliance with European Union law has revealed a serious risk of finding its non-compliance with both the original European Union law and secondary European Union law, as well as international agreements concluded between the European Union and third countries. The Polish courts, the Court of Justice or the courts provided for by international agreements may find this incompatible. Prof. Dr. Hab. Hubert Izdebski writes in his opinion that the resolution of the law is making major changes in the media market and, in the event of the entry into force of this law, the media market will be disrupted. Next: General rules resulting from the right to good administration and the confidence of the citizen in the good functioning of public institutions have been violated by the National Radiophony and Television Council on TVN24. Where's the National Radio and Television Council that hasn't made a decision in over a year? It's either a concession or a refusal. And it's still not there. National Radio and Television Council in its entirety... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Marshal...]] ...has committed a serious violation of the law, order... Okay, I'm almost done. Danuta Drypa, the chief legislator, or our Senate office: the Act violates a number of provisions of the Constitution, the Treaty on Trade and Economic Relations between the Republic of Poland and the United States of America. The amendment should therefore not become part of the legal system. Such opinions are 11, there is no positive opinion. You want access to information for our society, for all of us. You want us to listen, watch what's leaking from TVP. This television is intended to shape the opinions of all Poles. That's not what he's gonna do. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And I also say this in the context of what was in August. I've been making these demands and setting up their hierarchy. The first was free trade unions, the third was about media, media independence, media pluralism. You're also breaking that story you're referring to. How much further are you going to go? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Please take the floor of Senator George Wcisla.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u85	High Senate! Attempting to amend the Act on Radio and Television, called "lex TVN" for a reason, in itself compromises the forces currently ruling in Poland. For this reason, the place of this document is only in the basket. But this law, although formally applicable to TVN, can in fact apply to any foreign entrepreneur who wants to invest his money in Poland. We have shown to the world that everyone, when investing in Poland, is to take into account that here the state of law ends, here the law is subordinated to the party interest. We say, don't invest here, because here no future is sure, it's enough that you won't like the PiS, and your future may be over. This law violates the treaty signed in 1990 on trade relations with the United States, a treaty which in its preamble guarantees that in Poland American investments will be treated no worse than Polish and no worse than any other. If this treaty can be broken, it means that any international agreement can be broken. The PiS does not even freak out that the possible adoption of the law does not close the case but opens it, because the injured party has the right of appeal, the right to initiate international arbitration. Importantly, arbitration may be requested by the victim, but also by the United States. It is therefore very likely, and even certain, that the adoption of this law will result, in addition to huge compensations... in an open, sharp conflict between Poland and the United States. In whose interest can the Polish government provoke conflict with the United States? Certainly not in the interests of Poland. And I'm sure this dispute will be very pleased... to be watched in Crimea with great joy. The question is whether PiS wants to be a spokesperson for Russian interests and Russian politics, today it doesn't matter because the PiS is already a de facto spokesperson. And it doesn't matter if the PiS does it consciously or out of stupidity. This could be important for a court that will investigate this case sooner or later. Stupidity can be a mitigating circumstance in this case. As a senator from a region bordering Russia, I want to remind the Polish government or inform them that the border with Russia is becoming more and more inflammatory and the spoiling of Polish-American relations can be a kind of signal that allows for an explosion. We are witnessing a significant increase in military forces in the Kaliningrad region: Navy, aviation, missile, landing. There are fighter planes, electronic recognitions, new anti-aircraft systems, rocket systems, including Iskander in particular. We know that a new division is being formed, the Baltic fleet is being expanded. We know that. On the other hand, since the beginning of this year... From the leaks, but we know that the winter-20 exercise showed that our army in armed confrontation with the Russian army will last 5 days. I repeat: 5 days, i.e. less than the September campaign in 1939 Polish generals warn against Russia. General Waldemar Skrzypczak writes: we are on the brink of war, we cannot win against Russia ourselves. Gen. Mirosław Różański asks: why do we lose the war with Russia? I'm asking the same question. And one more warning and quote: today Georgia, tomorrow Ukraine, the day after tomorrow the Baltic countries, and then the time will come for Poland. Whose words are these? Former President of Poland, sleep. Lech Kaczyński, just today reminded by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. He should have said those words to himself in front of the mirror. That is why today at the Polish border with Russia, among others. In Elbląg, NATO troops are stationed. Here in Elbląg is the headquarters of the Multinational Northern East Division. We have sought these troops for many years, the decision was made during the term of President Bronisław Komorowski. And now, in such a complex, dangerous and radically deteriorating situation at the Polish-Russian border, we provoke the only guarantor of our security. Do we want to be alone again? High Senate, President Andrzej Duda can enroll in the annals As the one who will bring NATO troops out of Poland, e.g. Romania. That's what we're talking about in the political offices. If someone says that I am exaggerating that the TVN case cannot cause Poland to leave NATO, then perhaps I will grant it a right, perhaps. But Norman Davies, an expert in the history of Poland and Europe, wrote that there is no historical logic in the fact that the assassination of Archduke Francis Ferdinand became the cause of a war in which 14 million people died. And yet, after the bombing, the war broke out. It lasted over four years, 14 million people died. Your Senate, history likes to repeat itself. Today, PiS law lex TVN pushes the United States out of Poland, disintegrates the European Union and NATO, consciously or unconsciously becomes a spokesperson of the Russian power interests. Once again I will mention the words of General Różański: the world we know is now ending, and the civilization breakthrough often announces war. High Senate, Prime Minister of Poland tells that there is a hybrid war on the border with Belarus. I think the people around the border are laughing at those statements. But on the Polish-Russian border there will be nothing to joke about. We'll just see what the hybrid war is like here. So it's worth looking at lex TVN from this perspective. And I do not know what is more tragic for Poland, whether that freedom of speech is being destroyed in Poland, or that our position in the world is weakening, that our security is weakening in the context of relations with Russia. And finally something optimistic, another quote from General Różański. He said that the war with Russia will not happen today, it will not happen tomorrow, and maybe it will not happen in five years. But in order not to be so sweet, I'll add that they said those words in 2018. We've got two years left. Whoever has the imagination knows what we should do and who we should work with. The first step should certainly be to throw this bill in the trash. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u86	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Mrs. Marshal, ad vocem. May I?]] But ad vocem in the context of what? [[This performance.]] But has the senator been replaced? [[Voice from the room: It was not exchanged.]] [[I haven't been exchanged, but I find it irresponsible...]] If the voice... [[... the use of such words and such phrases about the safety of Poland...]] Mr. Senator, there's no such thing as this. You can come forward in the discussion. [[...of this kind of act. Thank you very much.]] Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u87	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'm gonna surprise you, but I'm not gonna talk about how bad this bill is. Everyone knows how bad she is. We know that it violates the Polish constitution, that it violates the Polish law, that it violates the provisions of Community law that bind Poland as a member of the European Union, that it violates the international agreement, the trade treaty that the Polish government has signed with the US Government. I'm not gonna talk about it because it's obvious. Nor will I say that this law violates the right of freedom of expression enshrined in the Constitution, that it violates the freedom of the press and other social media, which, after all, includes other media, including television. Nor will I talk about the fact that this law violates the right of economic freedom based on the fact that any legal entity operating in an area which is not prohibited may carry out this activity if it does not violate Polish law. In the case of this television broadcasting company, the law has never been broken, as confirmed by a representative of the National Radio and Television Council. I will not even talk about the fact that you violate this law properly acquired and send a signal to the international public that Poland is a country in which you cannot invest, because in practice at any time you can be deprived of your property or of this property being disowned. I'm not gonna talk about it because you know all this. And there's a person in this room. It's on both sides of this room. Who, before 1989, fought for this freedom of expression for lack of censorship. I'm not even going to talk about the fact that this bill is so bad that all the experts we hosted at the joint meeting of the Senate committees said the same thing. This bill can't be improved. She is so ill-written that the only right decision is to reject this law in its entirety. I'm not even gonna say that this bill is so embarrassing that no one has the guts to defend it today. It is not by chance those chairs on which the rapporteur normally sits, in general there is a representative of the government, and always there should be one who represents those who have written the draft, today they are empty. They're empty because no one wants to give their face and their name today to defend this project because they know this project is undefensible! Today, you can see there are situations like this. That many masks have worn out, so that you can see the face through it. The face of this bill is not a concern for security, the concern that an investor from China or Russia will come. The face of this law was the desire to introduce censorship and restrict the functioning of one of the TVs in Poland! And we already know that today. That's why I'd like to convince you. I specifically refer to the Senators of Law and Justice • that we all in this Chamber reject this project, regardless of the political option, from who sits in which part of this room. It's really worth being decent, it's worth showing that the sovereign is the most important. You have the results of the public opinion poll: 3/4 Poles in polls say that the government cannot interfere with what television looks like, what programs Polish and Polish people will watch. Really leave the total renovations to Dorota Szelągowska, do not make total repairs to the PiS. We're really tired of renovations, that's enough. It's also worth remembering. And this is where I address the ladies and gentlemen of the PiS senators. That you have a special opportunity to be decent and, of course, receive punishment for it, because you have a discipline at the club to support this project. But what does this punishment look like in practice? Maybe it's worth talking about, because it might be a chance to convince you and encourage you to reject this project. Because what terrible punishment awaits the PiS senators who will break discipline in this matter? You guys know that. Mr Lech Kołakowski can tell you about this. This penalty is a meeting with the President of Kaczyński and the position of the President's advisor at the state bank, with the remuneration of tens of thousands of PLN per month. And if this example does not convince you, then talk to your envoy Margaret Janowska from Bełchatów. As part of the penalty, the poor woman had to identify the president of the largest energy company in the country. I understand that you too, with such punishment, would bear this burden. [[Voice from the room: Get to the point!]] That's why I'm asking and appealing. Mr. Senator, it's for you, too. You show that decency in a moment's time to vote. You have a really great chance to face the anger of the President and also to identify the President of the Treasury Company in your constituency. [[Mr. Senator, but about discipline...]] That's why now, by putting off... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]] [[Please don't disturb me. Mr. Senator, please don't disturb the senator.]] That's why now... [[But the senator says he doesn't...]] [[Mr. Senator, if you believe for any reason that the senator is saying things that you don't like, you can sign up...]] [[No, they don't. There was no discipline.]] [[You can sign up for the debate and express it. You can express your views in the debate, Senator. And this is an appeal that I will address to every senator in this House. The jury is not a place to argue with the Speaking Senator. And that's what I'm gonna tell everyone. You're welcome to continue.]] I'd like to thank the senator. Polish people and Poles! The Senators of the PiS, who would support this project, will not dissipate with party discipline. It will be their will, i.e. that they want to take away from you the Kitchen revolutions of Magdy Gessler and they want someone else to run this show. We already know today. So thank you for the senator's vote. That there is a chance that this room will unanimously reject this bill. Let us also remember that your President Andrzej Duda has already announced a veto to this bill, and thus, by supporting it, you will become like Himilsbach from English: you will not be decent, nor will you gain in the eyes of the voters, because you will support the bill that takes away their favourite television, and the voters will remember it. Therefore, without irony, calmly, with sympathy, please and I appeal: let there be 100 votes in favour in this vote, but rejecting the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u88	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Breja.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! Where's the model for this bill? Where is the model of solutions reducing the capital of the West in the media so that the media in Poland will be appointed? I found this pattern. This is the law here, written by Cyrillic, from October 2014 by One Russia Vladimir Putin, a law which reduced to 20% foreign capital in the Russian media. And as long as Marshal Terlecki pointed out some circumstantial evidence in his speech yesterday, it can be said that this paper is already evidence. What were the consequences of these restrictions? Because you're telling me nothing bad's gonna happen. What were the consequences of Putin's introduction of such solutions in Russia? It was that the capital of the West was actually eliminated, and the bonsons, the oligarchs, Vladimir Putin's friends had taken over the independent media until then. What was the motivation when the Russian pride worked on this authoritative solution? Well, she was like this. Same as the one we heard during the debate in the Sejm on the part of the PiS MEPs, and, unfortunately, our Senators from the PiS: supposed security There is Russia's security, here the security of Poland, the alleged intelligence army from the West. Why? Because power in Russia has committed aggression in Crimea, Ukraine, and it's all about screwing up an information screw. As far as state security is concerned, I would like to ask why we have not received the opinion of the Minister of Home Affairs. If it's supposed to be about state security, then why isn't there anyone here from the government, the people responsible for security: the head of the security committee, the president, the Home Secretary, the national prosecutor? Or is it all a hoax? Ladies and gentlemen, why are you copying these Russian solutions? Well, it's a way to rule. I have a mandate to speak publicly, I know what I'm talking about. After a wave of chase, a wave of piss I won a lie trial with an employee of government television. It's been two years, a government TV worker doesn't apologize, he doesn't straighten out those lies, he mocks the law. In the second case, a government television worker found a more interesting method of mocking the law: he does not answer on government television or at home a summons to court. Finally, the third case. Just today, I took the court order from the post office in my favor, securing the court order in the case of a campaign of sting and chase against me and my family. Because this isn't about the mission. I wanted to ask the head of the National Radio and Television Council a question, but he's not here: where's the mission? They're stalking and stinging at different professional groups. We've been watching doctors, judges, scientists, artists, journalists, local government officials, women. Whoever gets in the crosshairs, gets in the way. Why? Because that's the method. After all, government representatives themselves in e-mails describe this method: we need to create conflict, sting, lead to sharing and chase on Poles. And I have a question for the head of the National Radio and Television Council, how does that apply to the bill and to the public service mission. After all, you yourself have entered into the bill that your government media are to act in accordance with the Christian system of values. Where is the Christian system of values here? They're supposed to love the truth, they're supposed to be objective, compared to other media, they're supposed to be super reliable. I'm going to appeal to my example one more time. After the chases that reached such a level that even threats from your sting, threats from my children, you were scared and assured me very professionally. I'm gonna expose it here. Police protection at the highest level. On the one hand, the prosecutions, the sting on the head of the opposition group campaign, and on the other hand, in the privacy of the cabinet, you granted me police protection. This is unbelievable. But you do realize that, and that's just proof that the price of your conquests could be blood. These are, of course, Russian methods. And one more piece of evidence for this eastern spirit of this bill. Have you heard any voice of opposition from Western NGOs in this matter? Plenty of positions, organizations defending freedom of speech, reporters' organizations, the State Department, voice of opposition from the West, just as in the case of your jump to free courts... But have you heard any voice of opposition from that side? There's the East. Quiet. Just like with the courts. No questioning these solutions, these solutions written in Cyrillic, because that's what they're after. And let me put it this way: if something is not in line with the third postulate of August 1980, if something is incompatible and violates the law of the West, the law of the European Union, the law of European civilization, if something is incompatible with the treaty concluded with the United States, i.e. it violates the transatlantic agreement, but something is consistent with the solutions written by the Cyrillic, then I will certainly not support it, I will not support it, and I will not vote for it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u90	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! A lot has already been said in the legal subject, in the subject of Polish commitments, laws, contracts which we have signed, all this has been said, many times presented. What we are debating has been effectively crushed. But I am speaking on behalf of the Left because I want to persuade this right side of our room, in general the Law and Justice, to want to go back to the past for some reflection. What's your point? Where are you now? You want to eliminate a psychic that's critical of power. Is this what you fought for in the 1980s, creating a movement of solidarity? After all, you come from there, after all, the main demand was free media, so that everyone could express themselves, so that these media would represent different sides, so that they would be like this and this. Now you're in charge, and you want to eliminate a psychic that's critical of you. Why do you want to do that? You want to live in a bubble like this, you want to live in a bubble of flatterers like this, and you want to have a media bubble that will only provide you with good information, and you're going to turn on and watch this program that's right, and you just want it to be the right one, and you think it's okay? This is bad. You should thank the independent TVs, in general the media, the radio, the press, that these critical voices are publishing to you, showing. For this should increase your style of government, your way of governing, you should strive for them to have nothing to show. It's the role of free media when the government doesn't fit. Well, it doesn't fit because it's shown with a different eye than the government wants to see, and they should appreciate it. I don't understand this idea at all. What do you have in mind to eliminate because someone's criticizing you? Let's get back to that. After all, you are men of freedom, each one of you took to participate in some degree in the fight for this freedom. And today, that's the basic thing you want to eliminate. This one of the first postulates... Well, it's amazing to me that you're defending what we're talking about, that you're not holding back today. At the committee meeting, I heard there were probably 12 votes against the committee's motion. So you're still in on it. What's... Well, should we create Korea? Is that how it's supposed to be? Well, a moment of reflection... No matter who owns this psychic... Of course, all the things you presented in turn, etc. And so on... It is a citizen who has access to the media he wants, so that he can listen to both sides. You want to take this. For what? In the name of making it easier to rule? To make it more comfortable to rule? Well, there's already a very good management comfort. There's already a lot of TV, a lot of radio, a lot of newspapers... But you're not gonna stop it. And so is the Internet, and so is Facebook, and so is... There are other ways of communicating. You can't... You can't go back to that... Leave this way. You're gonna leave her, and you probably already know this is the wrong way, but you're gonna go a little bit further. You're not yet convinced it was a mistake. So I want to convince you, but not from the legal side, not from all the arguments that were said a lot, but from the normal side: that there is to be opposition and government in politics, and there should also be critical media in the media, and perhaps there should be media that praise, neutral or objective media. Whatever they want, they have every right to be. And it's not our role here to limit them and make them up: the good ones, the bad ones. And I think the other... If governments change, someone else will come and rule, then they won't eliminate, I don't know, Television Trwam or Radio Maryja, because something doesn't suit him. Well, think about what you're up to, what kind of field you're in. It's slipping away in this discussion. This discussion is very substantive, a lot of arguments have been put forward and I will not repeat them, everyone can listen. Nevertheless, it really seems to me that what is most important has escaped: freedom of the media, freedom of expression cannot be restricted in the country. And don't make it happen. Don't stand on that side anymore. Let's close this chapter. Let's move on. And the media can do whatever they want. Let them carry out their mission. Let them report what they want, the way they want to. Let's not be offended just by them. Because that's the world today. There will be no going back to that system, no going back to those rules that reigned. And fortunately, we are in this family of Western countries, which we have always wanted to belong to. We've always pointed out that there's something in the media that you can say to anyone who likes it. And very nice. And so be it in Poland. And leave this bill alone, leave these changes. Let's move on. Let's just take care of some big problems. But be positive about criticism. That's what I'm calling for. Because criticism is very much needed by the rulers. And without it the quality, the style of every government will immediately decline. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u92	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Listening to all these statements, looking at everything that's going on around TVN, sometimes I realize that I'm in some kind of absurd theatre. Sometimes I can't believe I have to pinch myself. I feel like this is an absurd theater whose script is written somewhere on the street. Nowogrodzka. I don't think there's any doubt about that. Sometimes colleagues on the other hand ask if we really believe that this is an assassination attempt on democracy. Yeah, that's what I think. Is this the defence of the interests of Poland when it comes to the designers of this law? No. This is not defending the interests of Poland. There is no doubt about this, because the interests of Poland are being violated here. This is a defense of party interests. We need to be clear about this and stop fooling ourselves. Ladies and gentlemen, this isn't about... it's about democracy, but about democracy itself, it's not just about freedom of the media, it's about access to information. No access to information There's no democracy. We all know that this bill is instrumental. Today TVN is the last free station that is deprived of the influence of the ruling party. This is the last free TV. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a hit on TVN, just so we're clear. It's a hit on TVN24. If it wasn't for TVN24, we wouldn't be sitting here today, and we wouldn't be discussing it at all. TVN24 is a TV that transmits information, talks about scandals, scams 24 hours a day. You could say she's biased. But biased how? Maybe in the selection, say, of those who are taking part in the debate. Maybe she's biased about that. But is he lying? Show me the judgments of the courts that state that TVN24 is not telling the truth. It is a fight about TVN24 and for real, independent information which should reach Poles. Ladies and gentlemen, on TVN we have films, we have Dorota Szelągowska. TVN policy, how much is it? Five minutes in the Facts, 7:00 p.m.? There's so much politics. Then there's information about what's going on in the country, in the world, about misery, etc. The policy in TVN is 5 minutes at 7.00. What we're talking about here is hitting TVN24 on free TV. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a saying that whoever has a pilot has power. President Kaczyński wants this pilot. What about democracy? There's a democracy in my house. My wife and I often fight for this pilot, yes, but then we come to some kind of consensus and agreement. I say, "Good morning, TVN" and then I watch TVN24. And that's democracy. If someone wants to take over the pilot and have him at his disposal alone, then democracy is already over. So my question about what I said: what are you afraid of? Are you afraid of the truth? Ladies and gentlemen, as regards the disruption of the media market that was mentioned at committee meetings, and we have talked about this many times... Isn't there a disturbance in the media market? Notice: The National Radio and Television Council is in the hands of the ruling party, so as the TVN vote proves. So you have TVP, TVP Info and all the other TVs, you have Polish Radio. But you have little, so you hit the media market through Orlen, which means you take over 20 of the most popular newspapers in Poland, you take over Internet news channels that reach over 17 million Poles. I would also like to remind you that Orlen has taken over the newsstands of the Movement. If we go and look at the newsstand of the Movement... The way the newspapers are arranged at the exhibition depends on the ruling party, because the owner of the newsstands of the Movement is among others. Orlen, who decides what press will be taught to reach for her first. And it's not enough for you. Now it's TVN, hitting TVN. Who's next? Onet? Virtual Poland? "The Gazeta Wyborcza," maybe? Ladies and gentlemen, this is a Budapest scenario. Jarosław Kaczyński once said that we will have Budapest here, and he is realizing this vision. But we are slowly approaching a scenario that is probably closer to Minsk or Moscow, unfortunately. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to highlight here the boot and the arrogance of power. I feel a little sorry for my colleagues here on the right side of the room, because there are a lot of decent people among you that we can talk to in the hallway. I feel a little sorry for you guys anyway... Because, like I said, I know a lot of decent people, including the PiS. If you have discipline, I sympathize with you a hundred times, for you yourselves are aware that you have been involved in a game in which you should not participate. In the absence of time, I will not talk about other aspects, either moral or legal, which are devastating to this law. All those legal opinions are talking about it. I also regret that the standard in the Polish parliament is breaking the constitution. I'm sorry. Because it was also proved in the case of this law. I'll focus on my feelings, very briefly, at the end. Ladies and gentlemen, on Sunday I participated in the harvest festivals in Żagan. I don't know if you know where the Sailing is. This is West Poland, where American troops are stationed. There were representatives of the U.S. Army in gala uniforms, in field uniforms, talking to each other. I looked at them as if in the context of what was happening today in Parliament, and I wondered if they were our enemies, whether these people came to defend our eastern flank and how the Americans would treat us if they thought that the Polish government, that the Polish parliament, treated them as enemies. So I ask the question: are these enemies, are they aggressors threatening Poland, or are the U.S. troops trying to defend us? Ladies and gentlemen, the trade treaty... Well, I'm not getting a divorce because it's been said many times. That's what I was talking about at the committee meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, an example of life. If any of you want to know the name of the company, I'll give it to you. The American investment, which amounts to PLN 1 billion, I will repeat: 1 billion 3 locations in Poland, one of them was supposed to be in New Salt, but it will be nearby if the Americans do not get scared. And imagine that the representatives of the American company are asking us this question: whether, in view of what is happening to our American investment in Discovery, it will not be so that we will build a factory for PLN 1 billion, and at some point the government will come to the thought that maybe this factory is needed by the government, and the government will force us to get rid of this factory? Can you imagine asking such questions in Europe today, in Poland, the Americans? That's the result. That's exactly what you're doing. What did I say? I answered: you can be calm, we are a member of the European Union, you are safe, the European Union is protecting our security. And you know what I heard on TV last night? Marshal Terletki's statement, which goes without saying about the possibility of polexit, bringing Poland out of the structures of the European Union. Well, it's just drama... What am I supposed to say to this investor now, after Marshal Terletki's statement? Ladies and gentlemen, we don't have any friends anymore. We have enemies of our own. We've made enemies of the Germans, we've got enemies in the east, we've got enemies in the south. I think even with the Swedish, we're going to be at war... It's about Mrs. Pavłowicz's statement, which demands a reparation from the Swedes. Where do we have friends? Tell me, because I can't find them. We're in a fight with everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, a word from my experience when it comes to free media. You say there's nothing to be afraid of, we live in a democratic country, we have free media. It's me, ladies and gentlemen, to tell you what the free media is in your release. As president of the city, as head of the Association of Municipalities of the Lubuskie Voivodeship, as a member of the Board of the Polish Cities Association, I have often been on various televisions, the most diverse. You know, after you've taken power, I've had so-called since 2015. Wolf ticket, I've been banned from public media for six years. Are these the free media? [[Voice from the room: I think that's good. There's no reason to...]] And the last question to, as I said, colleagues from the right side of the room because I have colleagues there. Wouldn't it be embarrassing for you to vote for something completely absurd that you're in, like I said, screwed up? I feel sorry for you. And from this place I appeal to Poles and Poles, to senators, first and foremost to the Senators of the PiS: wake up because it may be too late and you will have to fight for free Poland again. I hope we don't let that happen. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u94	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! At the theatre premiere, if the play is good, the actors bow down at the end. Sometimes you can hear from the audience: Where's the author? Why can't we get rid of Suski's living intellect? Why isn't anybody here from the government? The answer is very simple: because this is one of those laws which the United Right has served us in the number of dozens in the previous Senate term. Then, during the process of amending the Tenth Law on the Supreme Court for the tenth time at some point, no one really dared to come because people were ashamed, they were ashamed of what was going on in this House. It's the same today. I'll remind you of that, as I struggled for six years, we were battling with the so-called. A good change. Many times during my previous term of office I was a representative of minorities, representing opposition to non-constitutional, extremely harmful projects destroying the justice system, the prosecutor's office, the National Judicial Council, the Supreme Court and, of course, public media. Starting with the embezzlement of the Constitutional Tribunal, which caused mass protests... opposition representatives warned against the dismantling of the rule of law, against the destruction of constitutional safeguards guaranteeing citizens' rights. These voices were consistently ignored by the parliamentary majority. Today, the consequences we have warned against are taking a real shape. The European Union is taking drastic financial steps because of the long-term actions of the right-wing government. Poland from the status of the quarterback country is falling into the role of a country dramatically isolated. And at a time like this, the Marshal of the Sejm speaks words that must be understood as the pronunciation of polexit. Part of the public opinion of the mom with unprecedented propaganda, sting and lies that my colleagues were talking about here was distant from our warnings of what would end in thoughtless demolished democracy and exposing Poland outside the legal brackets of the European Union. Many citizens did not involve these illegal activities with the risks associated with their daily lives. Meanwhile, in the so-called. lex TVN as in the lens there is a threat to every citizen, to the destruction of democracy. I'll remind you what I said at the committee meeting. At the end of the 1980s, there was a joke in the cabaret. He talks to two citizens and one is critical of power, and the other says: you know what, keep quiet because one Sunday you'll wake up and there won't be a Telleranka. And this is exactly where every citizen can see what silence is all about when the law is broken, because one day he'll wake up and his favorite show isn't going to be. But this case is much more serious, this bat has the other end. Much was said here about the effects of lex TVN on relations with the United States. Please remember that TVN is lucky to have at least the power that this government has to deal with. And every citizen should think deeply about whether, if this majority comes to expropriate it, he will have behind his back some mighty man who will stand with a stick in front of that power, and this power will go back. No, this citizen who is smothered by the violation of the constitution by the omnipotence of the government will be forced to fight it alone and will not be able to count on the defence of the system of law that has been dismantled. Today, there is much evidence that governments will withdraw. But, as has been the case in recent years, they will go back not to the letter of the law, not to the constitution, not to international obligations, but to the letter of the law. As usual, because only then do they go backwards I'm scared. And, Dear colleagues from both sides, this is a very sad conclusion that in Poland today is not governed by law, but by external influences, that we are having this discussion at all, because if any other majority of us six years ago tried to do something like this, any government, it would never have been such an idea, this kind of law would have come so far. Because it would be known that it would be rejected because of the law, not because someone powerful is behind the company that the government swinged at. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u96	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a debate in which very strong words have been uttered, and it is regrettable to say that a pretext has been given for these words to be uttered. I'm thinking here about the bill we're currently investigating. The moment that bill came out, I was asked by journalists what I thought of it. And then I said, "I don't think it's in this formula." and it has not changed much in substance in relation to this submission from the initial project It has passed the full legislative path. What does the full legislative path mean? Sejm and Senate, signature or no signature, or referral by your President to the Court. We already know today that the President's signature under this bill will not be, no matter what the fate of this bill will be in Parliament. All the signs in the heavens and the earth show that from the Senate this bill will come out with a motion to reject it in its entirety. If so, there will only be a vote in the Sejm to accept the Senate veto or to reject the Senate veto, but no amendments can be made to it. So even if the bill comes out of the Sejm after rejecting the Senate veto, the president... As promised by Minister Szrot, who has come here many times. Okay, let's go first. as a representative of the government, now as a representative of the President's Office It wasn't a word thrown into the wind. And it is regrettable that the right idea... Because from the beginning, as soon as the Radio and Television Act was established, The media is more than 40 years old, including more than 20 years as a parliamentarian. So since 1992, there have been discussions on the ownership structure. This bill, High Izbo, has been amended several dozen times. I don't think anyone remembers how many times in total it was updated in various aspects. For example, in the original version of this law, the share of foreign capital, as it was then referred to, could be 33%. Later, at the beginning of this century, probably in 2003 or 2004, this increased to 49%. This law has always been discussed, changed, taken various forms. In general, she was always criticized from one side, always wrong from some point of view. Nevertheless, such a system of audiovisual media in Poland was chosen. This is a system with the National Council of Radio and Television, which we have recently broken down the competences of creating a National Media Council. Well, not lately, a few years ago, but in any case, that rule has been changed. And that's the situation we're dealing with. Now this situation, which is also political... This is why I said at the outset that there was an excuse to make these allegations, which we have just heard in the statements of various senators representing the opposition camp, which is the majority in the Senate, so it has an important impact on the legislative process. This pretext was given and, in principle, a rational discussion about the article was prevented. 35th Radio and TV Act. Because this article, an article defining a possible ownership structure, a possible share of foreign capital, from outside Poland, maybe this is how I'll put it. In media projects, I believe that it requires a broad discussion. The world is changing, there are new technologies, new techniques for the distribution of sound and signal, there are different new forms of audiovisual organization and it would be worth discussing. But first of all, it should be stated whether the provisions of the current law are actually vague, unclear. There are proper procedures. Secondly, it was possible to have a discussion, invite experts, consult with broadcasters who operate on the Polish market, read the legal regulations in other Member States of the European Union. And I can tell you that neither in Germany nor in France is it that you come with a lot of capital and you can start or buy a TV or radio station right away. In the United States, the limit for capital from outside America is, it seems, 25%. So there are various regulations that could be discussed calmly. If there had been any substantive conclusions, then we would have prepared an appropriate bill and would have been without such a confrontational model. Well, he was picked up like that, and that doesn't surprise me personally. I can tell you what I have already said: no one has asked me what I think about this matter, and I have been working with the media for over 40 years, and I have some knowledge and experience in this matter. This was the method adopted, and this is how we got to the point where we were. And this point is that the opposition which has the majority in the Senate has made the most rational application from its point of view to reject this law, even without any attempt to correct it. Well, you could try that, I'd say take it, but it seems like it's just too late at this point. And the president said he'd veto the bill anyway. So the situation is that we're actually discussing a legislative being, which in some ways is already dead. He's already dead. And now I'm gonna say yes. It seems to me that, in this situation, those proposals that could improve this law and the amendments that were supposedly introduced into it at the Seym stage... And here I am thinking mainly of the amendment of the Confederation's environment on how to create members of the National Radio and Television Council Which is unconstitutional. This shows that, unfortunately, in the Sejm, no one was fully in control of the legislative process. Because you can have a law that is controversial, it arouses emotions, but at least let it have some legislative correctness and let there be some rules applied in legislation. Unfortunately, it wasn't here. So that this law also raises serious constitutional doubts, objectively speaking, except for who has political views, who is on the side of political dispute. These doubts are very serious. Therefore, it seems that this conclusion, which has been made, is in a sense rational. In addition, it must be stressed that the discussion that has taken place, also in the international arena, around the freedom of the press, around the freedoms, around the issue of freedom of speech and all this, is a discussion that is absolutely unnecessary. In the context of this, the fact that the public has recently learned that the programme of Jan Pospieszalski, liked by some part of society, is worth talking about, has been removed from the antenna, which by some people has been perceived as a clear proof of the operation of censorship and a certain political correctness by the management of the Polish Television... So we see that this discussion also has a different face, connected with the way freedom of speech works in Poland. High Izbo, of course I will vote according to my conscience, I will vote in favour of the motion to reject this law in its entirety because of the rations I have just spoken of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u98	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This debate has already said a lot of right criticism of this law, so I will speak very briefly. The substance and subject matter of this law is the system decision. Perhaps one day there will be work on modernising the Polish media system, as Senator Jackowski said, but in this case it is a very simple thing: a strong change in the system. So far we have been dealing with this, I have tried to say this without emotion, with the dismantling of constitutional democracy, with the liquidation of the Constitutional Tribunal, with the control of the judiciary, with the abolition of the rules on the Civil Service, but the conditions of real political competition remain. There was no serious allegation that the 2018 local elections were carried out without guarantee of real competition, in the case of the presidential elections there were violations, but they complied with the standards. Jarosław Kaczyński decided to move on, i.e. to repeal the rules of real political competition. Because that's the point of the change. Yes? I mean, the point of this change is to exclude a strong stream of criticism from the barbarism of public television. Well, somebody out there can criticize power at the local level, alone, but there's not gonna be a big stream of criticism. That's the point of the change. Notabene right won the election under the conditions of real political competition. If I were to recommend something to the Senators of Law and Justice, it would be a reflection of the decision on this matter, because ultimately such a model of power, in which there is no stream of political criticism in the media, will also turn against the inconvenient members of the parliamentary elite of Law and Justice, because it will be possible to eliminate you if there are no elements of political criticism. It will be possible to eliminate any inconvenient one. But it's called digression. What's the point of knowing this isn't gonna work? Well, not the potential request of the President of the Republic to the Constitutional Tribunal, because we do not know what the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal will be for a good cause. The case-law of the Constitutional Tribunal is not a clue to the decisions that will be given by the President of Przyłębska. What is important is that this type of system is faced with very strong resistance, and not only from the European Union, as several senators have said here, among others. Mr. Marshal Kaminski. This is simply a model of power completely inadequate to the present. While the authoritarianism of the 1930s, the purpose of which was to eliminate real competitive choices, had grounds in the socio-economic crisis, had grounds for a very strong role of the military after World War I, you want to create a model of power completely inadequate to modern sensitivity, to the sensitivity of the young generation who wants to deliberate, wants to talk freely about all important issues of their existence. The model of power, which excludes competition, is completely uncontemporary. It's gotta go wrong. This can't work. It's just going to the wall. There's another factor here. Polish love of freedom. This simply does not fit Polish society, Polish opposition, Polish ability to refuse to support nonsense actions. It'll all be over sooner or later. It is simply the madness of one man who has nothing to do with the Polish constitutional tradition. Let us assume that we are not in the European Union, that there is no European Union in its present form. Let's start an experiment like this. This is completely contrary to the Polish legal tradition, with the Polish political tradition. This can't work. It's gonna take a while, but it's not gonna work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u100	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u101	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! I address mostly people who may be watching or listening to us. I wouldn't have taken the floor if I hadn't heard it here, and from the mouth of a member of the Law and Justice Club, that vetoing this bill, that is, the Senate's rejection of this bill, is the only possible solution. I believe that this is not the case, and I will try to document it, and by the way, maybe correct the misconceptions, the lies that emerged in this discussion. As for the invective, the attempts to intimidate the Senators of Law and Justice, I leave this to your evaluation. First line. The law only counts 4 pages and actually consists of 2 sets of rules. The first group, added at second reading, concerns a new way of selecting members of the National Radio and Television Council. As a matter of fact... I agree with the opinion expressed by the legislators and the creators of external opinions. In my opinion, this is contrary to the constitution for two reasons. Firstly, it was lately notified and concerns a matter other than the one initially considered, i.e. it concerns the same law, but it involves the choice of members of the National Radio and Television Council. Secondly, the content of the amendments itself is contrary to the Constitution. You can see that at first glance, you don't have to be a constitutionalist here. We were trying to fix it. Senator Marek Martynowski has tabled amendments, which include: delete the amendments made at second reading by the Sejm, the changes which concern the matter in question. For example, this law is worth healing for. It's a choice: either yes or yes. Either we deny it in its entirety, or we try to heal it through corrections. I'll also tell you about the second amendment right away. Namely, it refers to limiting the operation of the Act to terrestrial and satellite television programmes, excluding cable television and distributed in satellite but non-sowing manner. As for the substance itself, which was discussed here very much, but the matter was mixed, various aspects were mixed, various historical events, in fact the law in the original version... She in the latter area removes a loophole in the law, a gap in the original law on radio and television, i.e. It's on the mother's bill. The wording, which was in this Act, concerned the limitation to 49% of the share of foreign capital in media projects, but the participation directly; of course, participation in companies. This law supplements it with the provision that the restriction is also in the case of indirect participation. 'Cause, you know, like... American capital buys out in full or forms a company in the European Economic Area, let's assume that in the Netherlands, and this company is no longer limited by a 49 percent threshold, because if this company is in the European Union, then such entities have the same rights as Polish entities. That's it. That's it. Attempts to extort from the contents of this law, either sluggishly or poorly, assassination against the freedom of the media, I admit, do not withstand criticism. I tried to ask the Senator rapporteur where is this recipe that swung at freedom of the media in Poland. I didn't hear any quote from that bill. Someone here said that maybe this whole bill is the bombing. But that also needs to be proved, pointing to some cause-effect process. I haven't heard that from you here either. And now I'm going to appeal to those who listen to us, watch. You have witnessed the process that we are talking about and which law is introducing, and you probably haven't even noticed it. Because TVN... Sorry, not the company, the sender of TVN... Initially, it was owned by the ITI Group and by Canal+. And in 2015, in March 2015, there was a change of ownership from Polish to foreign, to a company or to a Scripps Networks Interactive entity. Has something changed in the broadcasting system, in the program, in the programming line, in the programs you watched in March 2015, in the faces you watched on the screen? I didn't notice a change like that. That's what happens when you change ownership and it's just about ownership change. Well, maybe it was an accident. But there is a second process, a very similar case, namely the first mentioned by me Scripps sells its shares, 100% The stock of Discovery. Has anything changed on TVN? Not only on TVN, also on TVN24, etc... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[What about the radio? In Trinity?]] [[Please, Senator, please don't disturb me.]] Well, I haven't heard TVN... [[...and don't shout.]] ...sold or bought the Three, in quotes, of course. [[I ask you not to argue with a person speaking from the stand, because then chaos is sneaking into our deliberations, which is the enemy of order. And I would very much ask that we stand on the side of order, not chaos.]] [[Of course I do.]] [[I would ask Senator Czerwinski to finish his speech, and I would ask your senators not to disturb Senator Czerwinski in his speech.]] [[Yes, Mr. Marshal.]] This sale... This is probably 2018, when Discovery becomes the owner of 100 percent, of course through the Dutch company, the actual owner of TVN but the real I didn't see any change either. Ladies and gentlemen, it may have been different, but from an average viewer's point of view, And I'm an average viewer, a media recipient. There were no such changes. So, threatening to assassinate the freedom of the media in the event of this change proposed by this law is simply empty-minded, like a failure. Well, the two historical facts, the two changes we've been through, prove that it's just different. And that's the basic issue. All the speeches we have seen here were speeches not about this bill, but about a projection, which was written on the role. This is what the next speaker, the next senator, is going to say. Why? The question is, whose business is protected here, I leave unanswered, but any one of us can guess. There are other issues that show that we're somehow manipulated, that we're kind of a viewer, I'd call it, a theater. Well, the mother law, the radio and television law, is from 1992, and in 1990 this agreement was signed with the United States about, I would call it, commercial aid, which has been repeatedly invoked here, also in opinions. So there was a contract, and then there was a mother law, where there was a capital restriction of 33%, much more stringent than what is now, to 49%. Why wasn't anyone protesting at the time? Where were all those defenders of freedom and democracy? I'm not talking about those voices outside of Poland that are trying to... [[Voice from the hall:... for freedom and democracy.]] ...to force us to do something. [[Senator, please don't disturb me. And I'm sorry to inform you that it's been ten minutes.]] Because no one else volunteered, Mr. Marshal, I'm asking for five extra minutes. [[That's your obvious right. You don't have to ask me to do that, Senator. You're welcome.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just gonna finish my thought. In 1992, in December, no one provoked such protests, such media actions, in general such actions. Well, the fact that perhaps then Poland was a little different. It was under the authority of Prime Minister Hanna Suchocka. Next question: what is it really like with this Treaty of Poland U.S.A.? About some of the opinions on the subject we have said, but such a fundamental principle in international law and here we touch this right Of course, there is the principle of reciprocity. So do we the United States, so do we the United States. Of course, she may not be respected. There's a 20% limit in the U.S. when it comes to... I'm talking about principle, but there could be exceptions. There is 20% for the direct share of foreign capital in the media and 25% for the indirect share. I am no longer talking about those limitations that are in the European Union. Let's just leave that on the side. The question is: how does this apply to the spirit of this treaty, since we are calling in this law - She's not yet legal. A maximum of 49 percent of foreign, direct and indirect capital? The last question, perhaps the penultimate, is to explain what was going on here when it comes to discussion. The point is that there should be no misconception that there were two groups of amendments during the work of the Parliament on this bill. One was about what I was talking about, this extra matter. I thought it was unconstitutional. The choice of members of the National Radio and Television Council and the second group... That was actually one amendment. It concerned the issue of the possibility to dispose of these shares, the shares which the foreign entity, after the entry into force of this law, should be disposed of in order to comply with Polish law, i.e. above 49%. And there was an amendment, a constitutional amendment, that no one questioned, contrary to what was here in the discussion, certainly none of our legislators. - which prevents the acquisition of these shares, in any way buying them in the form of purchase or in any other form by the Treasury and all entities which are directly or indirectly dependent on the Treasury. It relieves any fears that we want to nationalise something. No, on the contrary, private capital has the right and is obliged, of course, in quotes, to take over equity shares or private equity shares. And one last thing. I have to pick it up here because in a few voices it was very sensitive in my opinion. Namely, it is about our relations with the United States, especially with regard to military issues. Ladies and gentlemen, anyone who is even trying to suggest that our friendship with the United States, the presence of the U.S. troops here, together, I would call them strategic interests, may depend on the acquisition or not of one company's shares... I think it's far too irresponsible not to say simply stupid. Because those people who say that, even so suggest, little is irresponsible, they insult the Americans, offend the United States, offend the U.S. military, because these soldiers are fighting, and we've seen it, because this country is largely peace in the world right now. Of course, I'm speaking in general. But above all, it is one of the few guarantors, apart from our internal strength, stability here in our territory, in Central Europe. And you really can't put that at all on the same scale. I say again: an attempt to combine the disposal or not of shares of one of the companies, no matter how important, with strategic cooperation, with the strategic cooperation of the two countries in the military, defence sphere, not to mention the economic sphere, I find it irresponsible and at odds with the good name of the Americans. I'm sorry about the voices that came out of that podium, and that suggested that it might come to anyone's mind at all. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u102	Thank you, Senator. I particularly thank you for your concern for what the Americans will think. We experienced this concern ourselves, when congratulations did not flow from Poland to the winner of the US presidential election. We were also wondering who was playing the Polish business then... [[Applause]] ...who then plays the Polish interest of our important ally. Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr. Marek Borowski... [[Mr. Marshal, I didn't comment on your statement. I would also ask you not to comment on my words, because you are joining those people I was talking about.]] [[But you were sorry.]] But you, Senator, have apologized, as I understand it, and you have also apologized on my behalf, which you had no right to, because the only thing you can apologize for is your continued assistance to an undemocratic government. Thank you. [[Applause]] You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! When I listened to Senator Czerwinski's speech, I began to wonder whether he was playing the first naive role here, or whether he was really convinced of what he was saying. I must say that I cannot resolve this dilemma, so I will move on to straightening, polemics, that may be too much to say, to straightening up what Senator Czerwiński has presented here. First of all, it was from his speech, just what he asked somewhere in the hall or at the committee meeting in the Seym, that Suski said: but it doesn't change anything. In fact, Senator Czerwiński's statement came down to this: what is it all about, it's normal, it's in other countries, it's already been, you don't know why they're bothering here. Well, I will remind Mr Suski of another statement, frankly this time, because he said these words in a meeting with his followers, who also asked him how it would be with TVN, who might possibly buy these shares, etc., or some private entity. And then he said, "Yeah, but that's how we're gonna have some effect on what's going on on TVN. And for the record, Mr. Senator, I could put an end to this... [[It's gonna be okay.]] Oh, no, you would. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: He would like to!]] You'd like to, but no. Well, Mr Suski said what was going on. Namely, the ruling party wants to influence what's going on on TVN. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, well, we've known each other for years. I won't compliment you. I've complimented you many times. It's not like you can't get away with it. You know what this is all about. You feel obliged to defend this text. Don't be. Now, I'm gonna get to specifics. Well, first of all, You have to ask yourself... Because Senator Jackowski here said that it was possible to have a broader discussion, etc., etc. But you have to ask yourself: why, why was this initiative at all? Is Poland threatened by the invasion of any of the other broadcasters of the type Russia Today or other similar ones, or maybe the ISIS countries? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Therefore, why is this change? Just because it is so in Germany that it is similar in France or Austria? These three countries have been exchanged. And that's what I'd like to ask... In Holland, you can smoke marijuana in coffee shops, and somehow we don't take over, we don't want that. Unfortunately, the characteristic of this authority is that whenever it refers to any foreign examples, selectively, of course, it is always for those which favour it in taking over all power. The point is that there are different traditions in different countries, for various reasons, certain rules have been introduced, some control arrangements have been introduced, etc., and this government takes over only one point that is convenient for it. Notabene is targeting Minister Ziobro... [[Voice from the room: Oh!]] ...which in this respect He's really outrunning himself. In this case, it's exactly the same. I do not know how it was in Germany and Austria, but in France such restrictions were introduced because the French have a A certain obsession with the United States, namely the influence of the United States on French culture. And so they feared that through the flood of their films, various kinds of entertainment, etc., etc. French culture will be marginalized. Well, we're not in danger of that. It can be explained here. But the most important thing is something else. Well, when such regulations were introduced in those countries some years ago, they did not hit any existing company, a foreign-capital shipper, which had to disappear or sell out at that time. It wasn't just for that, it was for the future. And now, Mr. Senator... After all, two important amendments were tabled in the Sejm, which unfortunately fell. First The famous amendment of Gowina excluded, as we know, from the circle of those who had to comply with this new provision, not only companies with European capital, but also companies with capital belonging to NATO countries. She was rejected. There was a second amendment, which was quieter. This was probably the amendment tabled by Poland 2050. She said: well, we are introducing this recipe, but it will not apply to companies that already operate on our market. Very simple. This meant that if foreign capital wanted to be installed with us in the future, it would have to comply with these rules, but those who already operate will not be affected by it. This amendment was also rejected. All of this together indicates that the bill under investigation was aimed at TVN. Now the question is, what can the owner do? They say sell 51%. And if there's no buyer, then what? It's gotta take out the company. They're not even hundreds of millions, they're heavy billions. Who can buy this? Well, there's an amendment made by Mr. Kukiz. Mr Kukiz is very pleased with this amendment. Okay, I'm not gonna take care of Mr. Kukiz. It's all been mentioned here. Lawyers have already found it, of course. There may be a foundation that will benefit from the resources that the government will make available to state companies, etc. And the foundation will buy it. A businessman may suddenly show up who's gonna get a big loan from the bank. I'm not going to mention his name, but it's going to be a bank whose power has an impact. There were two towers that used to be tangled. A businessman like that is gonna buy it, and then he's gonna do what he thinks, or actually what those who encouraged him to do and who patronize him. Is this a fictional model? No. This is the Hungarian model. In Hungary, oligarchs who draw money, among others. from the European Union, but they receive them through and by the grace of Orban, they buy out various kinds of companies. They were also buying out media companies and conducting a policy there as much as the authorities wanted. All the changes that Mr. Senator was polite to say, first it was ITI, then it was Scripps, and then there was Discovery... the difference is that these changes were voluntary. The owner has the right to sell. And the records that this bill introduces force him to sell, that is, the law actually expropriates him. For what purpose? The Constitution says you can expropriate yourself to a public cause. What's the public purpose here? How was he documented? Finally, I'm going to say yes. All this time, the senator was interested in where there's a restriction on freedom of speech in which the article is written. I'll ask you this. We have three big TVs right now. We have the so-called. public, that's government... [[Time.]] I'm almost done. ... We have Polsat and we have TVN. So let's imagine now that there's no 3 TVs anymore, but there's only 2 TVs, and there could be one in a minute. Has anyone written anything, limited anything? No. But will this limit freedom of speech and access to information that is the basis for freedom of speech? Yes, it will. I also want to ask: if this 51% in TVN bought Polsat 'Cause that's acceptable in the light of this law. The freedom of expression, access to information and media pluralism would increase, would it decrease? Of course they would. So that, Mr. Senator, although I have a lot of appreciation for you, for your diligence and your insight, unfortunately Polish today does not rule your diligence and insight, only you rule President Kaczyński, and his voice is Mr. Suski and Mr. Terlecki. And that's the problem. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u104	Thank you very much, Senator. Within five minutes... Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz reporting. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, this will be 10 seconds. Since one of the senators called people stupid, he was talking about stupid speeches... I would therefore like to quote Mark Suski's statement on who is the enemy and who is the friend. Because the fact that this bill is aimed at TVN is what we all know. The fact that TVN is American, we all know that. So, Mr. Senator, whose name I will not mention, Marek Suski said: "We must protect Poland from the entry of entities from countries that are hostile to us. Which country is hostile to us? Please answer yourself. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u106	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. For the sake of order, I inform you that the senators Alexander Szwed, Halina Bieda, Janusz Gromek, Janusz Pęcherz, Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka, Ryszard Świlski, Benjamin Godyla, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Joanna Sekuła, Józef Łyczak, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Adam Szejnfeld and Władysław Komarnicki submitted their speeches in the discussion to the minutes. And Senator Marek Martynowski made a legislative proposal. Do the invited guests want to respond to the proposals? [[Voice from the hall: What guests? But what guests?]] All this, all this... Ladies and gentlemen, this is in the scenario prepared for the Speaker of the Senate, because the authors of such a scenario do not assume that neither the rapporteurs nor the representatives of the government will appear at the meeting of the High House for any reason. And obviously this act of contempt for most Poles who have chosen the majority sitting in this House, this act of contempt expressed today by those who have submitted this bill, will not escape our attention. It's obvious. But I cannot not ask this question, because there is always a chance for improvement. And there was a chance that, at the end of our deliberations, government representatives or applicants would be here. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill under consideration will be held today, after consideration of point three. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you once again that the vote on the bill under consideration will be held today, after the adjournment of the session, after consideration of the third point. We proceed with the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. The text of the Act is contained in print No 487 and the report of the Commission In print No 487 A. Please... [[Talking in the O.R.]] First, I ask the senators to remain silent. Senators, please remain silent. And then I will ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Mr Richard Majer, to present a report to the committee. I would remind you that the bill was introduced by the Senate and that Senator Ryszard Majer was also an authorised representative of the Senate during the parliamentary work on this project. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased to present a report by the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the Act adopted by the Sejm on 11 August 2021 amending the Law on Special Solutions related to COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. Ladies and gentlemen, as you have noted, this was a Senate initiative. She was created on the basis of an amendment to the Social Insurance Act. Initially, it was an idea to make an amendment there, but ultimately it turned out that it was outside the scope of the law. We said as a committee that this could be dealt with as a separate bill, and that is how it is being implemented at the moment. On our initiative, the project went to the Sejm, and the bill itself returned to the High House. The Act specifies what is kind of its main meaning, the possibility of electronic transmission of information on capital plans through the information profile established in the Social Insurance Institution's IT system. Without this bill, you have to do it in a written, printed version. This is an facilitation for all entities that submit such reports to the Social Insurance Institution. In fact, the bill did not raise any controversy at the committee meeting. However, as soon as the procedure was completed, we noticed an unfortunate record which sets the date for the entry into force of this law and which concerns 1 September. Therefore, I am immediately in the hands of the Marshal, making an amendment which aims to change this deadline. In accordance with the amendment, the wording "September 1" is replaced by the following: "after 14 days from the date of publication." At the same time, I am asking the marshal to let us pass this bill during this sitting. The Commission is prepared for the meeting, for the adoption of the law. I ask the High Senate to adopt this law in its entirety with this amendment which I have tabled at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u108	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a request to the Senator rapporteur and the authorised representative of applicants from a place lasting no more than one minute. Would any of you senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. I would remind you that the bill was filed by the Senate. There's a government representative at the meeting. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Do any of you senators wish to ask such a question? [[Voice from the room: No questions asked.]] There isn't. I'm opening a discussion. I state that the senators Alexander Szwed, Halina Bieda, Maciej Łuczak and Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska have made their speeches to the minutes and that Senator Majer has submitted a legislative proposal in writing. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposal of a legislative nature? No. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. I'm asking Senator Secretary to present the announcements.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u109	The meeting of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions on the examination of the requests submitted today to the Act amending the Act on Radio and Television will take place today, 5 minutes after the announcement of a break in the session in room 217. And the second message. The meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of proposals for the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, print No. 487, will take place today, 10 minutes before the reopening of the session in room No. 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u110	Thank you very much, Senator. I declare a recess until 4:45 p.m., followed by a vote. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 59 to 16 minutes 48]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u111	Sorry about the two-minute delay. I'm reopening the session. We return to the second agenda: the Act amending the Act on Radiophony and Television. The meeting of the Legislative Committee, the Committee on Culture and Media, and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate, prepared a joint report on the matter. It is in print No 482 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The meeting of the Joint Committee on Culture and Media, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions took place during the break. Three proposals were made on the bill: the first was a motion to reject the law, and the other two were amendments by Senator Martynowski. The first motion to reject the law in its entirety was put to the vote. This motion was accepted: 22 votes in favour, 16 against, no one abstained. So that by this vote the committees maintained their motion to reject the law in its entirety.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u113	Thank you very much, Senator. Does the senator, Senator Marek Martynowski, still want to speak? No. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the motion of the joint committees to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, 53 votes against, 37 against and three abstentions. [[Voting No 2]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Radiophony and Television. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Payment Services Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 485 and the report of the Commission In print No 485 A. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, the senator... No, it's an amendment... [[The amendments will be made to another bill...]] I ask the rapporteur, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think this bill is a little less caliber when it comes to emotion. On behalf of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, I present to you a report on the work of the Commission on the Act amending the Payment Services Act. The bill was filed by the President. The President of the National Bank of Poland, Mr Adam Glapiński, applied to the President. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances on 8 September considered this law, held a discussion and gave a positive, unanimous opinion on the law. [[Talking in the O.R.]] At the same time, I would like to say that the bill... [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, please move your conversations to the clowns. We're processing an important point, point four.]] The draft law in the Sejm was supported by 436 Members, no one opposed it, 7 Members abstained. The Commission introduced 4 amendments during the meeting. 2 amendments are based on the comments made by your legislator, namely: an amendment consisting of the fact that in Article. 1, in Article 1, the following paragraph is added: 59ea paragraph. The word "or" is replaced by "or "or." And a similar caliber second amendment: in Article. 1, in Article 1, the following paragraph is added: 59ea paragraph. 3. the words "or" shall be deleted. At the same time, the committee proposed and voted positively two more amendments, namely in Article. 1 the words "activity' shall be replaced by the words "contracts to be concluded'. The point is that the draft law introduced by the President was to determine the online activities. The Commission has proposed, in our view, a clear provision, namely Internet activities and online contracts. Another important change is that the vacathio legis is not 30 days, only 3 months, so the words "30 days'are replaced by "3 months', which means the law does not enter into force until 3 months after the publication in the Official Journal of the Laws. The argument with regard to the last amendment was also that the act, seemingly simple, can even be said, trivially simple modifies certain matters concerning the functioning of entrepreneurs. Therefore, after the discussion, listening also to suggestions from employers' and entrepreneurs' organisations, we felt that this 3-month period of vacathio legis would be important for us as well as for those concerned. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, briefly, which is the purpose of this law. The purpose of this bill... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Could I have another please, Mr. Marshal... Ladies here a little... [[I'd like your attention, please.]] The purpose of this law is to oblige merchants to accept payment from consumers for goods or services by means of funds issued by the National Bank of Poland, i.e. to accept payments so-called. Cash. I'm just saying two words about who the acceptor is. The acceptant is the person who sells goods or services and has a contract with a company that settles payments with a payment card. So, in short, today is the case that when you buy any goods or services, the person who has a contract with the company that handles it, when it comes to payment with payment cards, can say: we apologize very much, we only accept cash payments. After the entry into force of this law up to PLN 530, as I remember, for a one-off payment transaction can also be carried out in the cash payment system. So, in short, when we stand and buy some goods, we can also, as a consumer, demand or ask for payment in cash. The legislator, in addition to the two specific comments that were supported by the vote, first in the discussion and later in the vote, made 5 such comments, which were partly in line with the comments made by employers. I'll just mention a few. At the same time, I would like to point out that Minister Mucha was very specific about these doubts during the discussion. I think if there are any questions about these details, Minister, we'll ask you to repeat... There were no concrete proposals in your opinion, but there were some elements on the question of whether this is really the case or not. But what's important, at my request. And the Minister agreed here. Next autumn, as the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, of course, with the participation of the Minister and the entities concerned, we will ask whether these doubts that you have written about and discussed during the committee's meeting have any bearing on and raise any problems, or simply whether the law, as the Minister says, will work without problems. I'm gonna talk about a few of these things about some kind of doubt. I would clearly like to say that one of the elements concerning the reservations of both the legislator and part of the social side was that the bill was too late for consultation. He was consulted by the Sejm and, in the opinion of both the legislator and employers' associations, the consultation should take place at the stage of drafting this law. It must be said, however, that these consultations took place at the moment when the project went to the Sejm. And Leviathan, as probably the only organization, applied to reject this law in its entirety, arguing that there are many such interpretative doubts which may be difficult to resolve in the implementation of this law. I'll give you one example here. The question is, if there's a supermarket, when there's self-service money and there's no service, we'll have a choice when it comes to paying cards, if anybody wants to pay cash... Because the law also states that if there is a service for which there is no crew, and we do so by paying with cards, then there is no obligation for the paying person, i.e. the customer, to ask for the possibility to pay in cash. Ladies and gentlemen, the law makes several exemptions, cases where this principle of cash payment will not have to be observed, i.e. as if it could be waived from... not fulfilling the request for cash payment. The first such situation is doing business on the Internet, and after our amendment . doing business related to a contract concluded via the Internet. Second At the place of business without staff presence. So what I was talking about: if there are no staff that serves, the person who sells his service or product... then the representative of the company may refuse to accept payment in cash at the customer's request. Same at the mass event. Then there must be information in the rules of this event. In addition, in the case of a one-off transaction, regardless of the number of payments resulting from it, the value of which is equal to the average remuneration in the enterprise sector, without payment of profits in the third quarter of the previous year, announced by the president of the CSO... That's what I was saying, a one-off transaction regardless of the number of payments resulting from it... For today this could be the amount of PLN 5,000 300. What is also important, the merchant, that is, the person selling the goods or services, cannot impose and charge fees for accepting payment with cash marks, i.e. simply in cash. So it can't be that the seller of a service or a commodity will say: if you pay with a card, you pay less if you pay in cash, you pay more. Or vice versa. These are practices in our trade which are unacceptable. And now, when it comes to the issue of cash payments, this has been clarified in this law. Ladies and gentlemen, why was this discussion also a discussion about the situation of the possibility of paying in cash, are we back in the sense of the law? In his term of office, I think... Now we have the tenth... I think it was the eighth term. Then as a member of the Committee on Budget and Finance, together with Mr Kleina... At the time, as a committee, we fought for the reduction of interchange fees, which were one of the barriers to card payments. We had one of the lower card payments rates in Europe, at the time we had about 12 Whereas the Scandinavian countries already had around 70% by then. And so to speak, we've been trying, we've been doing everything we can to make this ratio increase. That is why there was a discussion here with the Minister and the people who accompanied the Minister and also representatives of the National Bank of Poland, here mostly asked Senator Kleina about it if it was not a completely opposite trend than what we fought for. I will also remind you that paying with a card has many advantages, for example, the issue of security, i.e. there is no cash, easy payment, but there is also the question of State supervision over transactions, i.e. the gray zone is eliminated here. I also remind you of what was and is very important, namely... Besides, it was confirmed by representatives of the National Bank of Poland that in the case of handling the entire cash sphere... It costs about 1% to 1.5%. GDP. That's the cost of cash handling. However, we have been presented with studies that were done last year, according to which, if I quote correctly, 8% persons surveyed in the previous year stated that they had trouble paying cash. It's also such an impulse to come back and wonder if it wouldn't be worth paying in cash. At the same time, gentlemen, especially representatives from the National Bank of Poland said that there were researches carried out in countries such as Sweden, France and the United States, where examples of extreme situations were also cited, such as the fact that there were problems with buying medicines, because the person in question had cash, and the person conducting the business, i.e. sales, demanded only payment by card. Therefore, if you combine all these issues, that is, what concerns the good elements of the implementation of non-cash trading, as well as the emerging phenomena associated with restoring part of the transaction and paying cash by the consumer... The Commission voted unanimously in favour of the law I'll remind you. Mr President, making the 4 changes I was talking about. Just the last sentence I wrote down here as important. The moment we discussed in the 8th term of office what concerns the increase in non-cash turnover... If I remember correctly, they're like 53% now. This value was given. Compared to 12 and 14% which were earlier, this is a significant increase. At the same time, I will say that a very important institution, namely a foundation promoting the idea of a non-cash state, i.e. non-cash transactions, has also given a positive opinion on the draft law. But I will remind you that there were also voices, especially entrepreneurs, who expressed doubts and concerns that there would be interpretation problems after the bill was introduced. The last such example: when someone gets on a tram and the question is whether cash or not cash or credit card or service, or whether the driver is supposed to be this service... This raises some doubts, but once again I will remind you that the Minister has declared, and we have remembered that after six months we will return to the subject, we will ask the entrepreneurs and those concerned to answer the question whether the bill has resolved the doubts whether it has multiplied them. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u115	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski volunteered.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a very important bill. Contrary to appearances, it concerns each of us, e.g. at the parking meters. [[With what?]] At the parking meters. Except that for the activities carried out... paragraph 2: at the place of establishment without the presence of personnel. Can there be parking meters that will only be prepaid, and there will be no possibility to deposit cash?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will ask the Minister for an answer, because this is another example confirming the doubts of entrepreneurs. They put up other issues, that there might be situations where the owner of the meter would set the payment with cash only or with a card only. In the case of another example, the Minister had an interpretation. I wouldn't want to take it away from him, because that would be my interpretation, which wouldn't necessarily have to be in line with the spirit of the bill that the President is the author of.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u118	Thank you. Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u119	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question, too, more technical. According to the novel, as you said, the seller will be obliged to accept cash payments in cases where the value of the transaction is no greater than the remuneration in the business sector. Currently, as you said, this is PLN 5,000 370. I have a question: if the amount exceeds the limit, will it be possible to make a transaction directly one after the other? Was that discussed at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u120	Yeah, we talked about that. We're talking about a one-off payment or a multiple payment. It can't be that someone pays 2 and 2, and that's 6. It is about payment for a given service or a given commodity or part thereof. That's the interpretation. That's how I understand it. If the interpretation is different, the Minister will correct it here. We talked about whether there'd be a one-off transaction or multiple payments for the same merchandise. The sum is so to say, to agree with the amount, which today amounts to PLN 5,000 300, cannot exceed it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u121	Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Now I don't even have any doubts about the parking meter, but in a way, I'm sure. If we're going to read it literally, it's this exception, that's the rule of the mouth. 1 not applicable And here is point 4 of the single transaction, regardless of the number of payments resulting from it, the value of which is equal to the average... It doesn't say equal or greater. Here's the question. Perhaps there's another definition of the transaction? Because here it would seem that this only applies to a certain, equal amount.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u123	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u124	I'll be honest with you... That's the senator's analytical mind. I think this calls for consultation with the Minister. Here should be equal or smaller... [[It's not much bigger than that.]] ...or not more than. [[Or more than that.]] It's either not bigger than it is, or it's maximum. So that there's no confusion that the senator was talking about, I think it should be corrected. But the Minister will explain how to read it. I'll just add one more word of comment. Mr. Senator, ladies and gentlemen, this is the kind of doubt that entrepreneurs have been paying particular attention to. Before the bill enters into force for good, there will be different interpretation doubts. But that will be explained by the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u125	Thank you, Senator rapporteur. [[May I?]] You're welcome, Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u126	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'll ask. By asking if this amount exceeds the limit, one by one, I meant such a situation that, for example. There are 2 products that cost, let's say, 5 grand each. It's known to be above the limit in total. And then will you only be able to buy 1 such product, or will you be able to make one after another such transactions and the other product also buy?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u127	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! These are the different things that raised our doubts. The Minister tried to answer all the questions. [[I wasn't...]] If we talk longer, there will be more doubts. Like the senator said, you can buy one thing for 5,000 290, go out and buy another thing. These regulations don't seem to prohibit it, but I'm gonna ask the author to tell me if that's the way it's supposed to be. I went into the store, bought something for 5,000 290, went out or waited a minute, took another thing and again paid 5,000 290. That's how I understand it, but if it is, then the Minister must explain it. [[Talking in the O.R.]] What?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u128	Well, thank you very much. Senator Klein? No. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. [[Thank you very much.]] This bill was introduced by the President. In the course of parliamentary work, the President of Poland's social advisor, Mr Paweł Mucha, was authorised to present the President's position. Does the President's representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Social Advisor of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: Yes, Mr. Marshal.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u129	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, senators! Ladies and gentlemen! I'll try to answer those doubts that have arisen, but maybe... In view of the fact that the Act was already at the reporting stage for which I thank the rapporteur, it raised some doubts. I think it's a pretty important initiative. It is worth to present everything from the beginning. I have the honour to present to you the Act of 11 August 2021 amending the Payment Services Act. As already well stated in the report, the Act is an initiative of the President of the Republic of Poland, which was taken as a result of the work that took place at the National Bank of Poland. The law gained broad support in the Sejm: there were 436 votes in favour, 7 members abstained, no votes against. The law is important from the perspective of the consumer, in particular from the perspective of the consumer who is using cash in the economic trade. Legal analyses carried out either in the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland, whether in the Ministry of Finance or in the National Bank of Poland indicate that, despite the fact that we have of course this knowledge, the cash marks issued by the National Bank of Poland have the legal quality of means of payment, in itself this does not mean the obligation to accept them unconditionally. In the current state of law, i.e. before the entry into force of this law, it is possible On the basis of the principle of freedom of contract and the autonomy of the parties' will, . such a legal relationship, the conclusion of such an agreement, so that the only acceptable form of settlement of the obligation is the non-cash payment. In practice, such situations occur, are possible. An entrepreneur, a seller, the one with whom we purchase goods, or the one who provides services for us It may indicate that it only accepts non-cash payments, which in practice leads to the elimination of cash from the market. The fact that merchants do not accept cash, i.e. entrepreneurs who accept non-cash payment instruments, may bring significant repercussions to consumers who do not own or use cashless payment instruments, even if they do. As it is said here, from the survey of payment habits conducted by the National Bank of Poland last year, it appears that in Poland still a very large group of people do not have a bank account. It's even estimated According to the latest research that we have at our disposal, the number of those who do not have a bank account is 11.5%. adult Poles. In absolute numbers, this means 3 million 600 000 people who do not have a bank account. In turn, there are over 5 million people who do not use the payment card. These are people who either don't have a bank account or, even if they have a bank account, they don't have a payment card. So we're talking about a very important social group. However, regardless of all this, a very large proportion of cash payments are made by those who have a bank account as well as a payment card, but simply decide to settle the transaction in cash. The circle of influence of this law, the addressees of these standards is therefore very wide. The issue of non-acceptance of cash has been particularly highlighted by the ongoing epidemic of around 8%. surveyed people met in our country with a refusal to accept cash. I immediately stress that this is a study on a representative group commissioned by the NBP. This is not some freely selected data, but here we are talking about a certain mapping of the phenomenon that occurs in practice. It should also be fair to say that, at the very beginning, inaccurate or not accurate information on the spread of Coronavirus or the lack of such information has contributed to this. Scientists now point out that the likelihood of virus transmission on banknotes is low, and the virus will best survive on nonporous materials such as plastic, stainless steel. This means that debit cards, credit cards and terminals can carry the virus, and the risk in this case is theoretically even higher than in cash payments. I'm sure you've heard about it. In view of the state of the epidemic, it is suggested that payments should be made only by card, while research it does not confirm that this is an accurate diagnosis of prevention in the context of the transmission of coronavirus. The problem of accepting and regulating cash has been noticed at EU level. In September 2020, the European Commission announced the EU retail payment strategy. The Commission has outlined in this document a strategy on the basis of which it will seek further integration and harmonisation of the European retail payment market. The Commission confirmed that cash remains the dominant payment method in the euro area. It was also pointed out by the Commission that measures should be taken to ensure that the eligibility and availability of cash and its status as a legal means of payment are maintained. The Commission very clearly expects Member States to ensure that cash is acceptable and accessible as a public good. Of course, we are talking about the euro here and about the context of the European Commission, but I would like to point out that this problem is not only seen in Poland, where we are talking about Polish gold, our national currency. At EU level, at the level of reflection on the euro, measures are also being taken to ensure that payments can also be cleared in cash and that their legal tender status is ensured. Therefore, in view of the current legal situation and the desire to safeguard the interests of the vast majority of our country's citizens who use cash in their economic trades, the proposed Act amending the Payment Services Act proposes the implementation of an exception to the principle of freedom of contracting and the autonomy of the parties' will. This means that, for merchants, there is no possibility of making the conclusion of a contract for the provision of services or sales with the consumer subject to payment in a non-cash form and, at the same time, there is no possibility for the merchant to refuse to accept payment by means of cash marks issued by the NBP to the consumer. What does that mean? If we have a situation that I, as a consumer, am acting against an entrepreneur, then... I also answer the senator's questions here and the voices in the discussion. Of course, there are no limits on cash payments in the legal state today. You can imagine a cash payment for a much higher amount, there is no limit here. It is not that through this reference to the amount of PLN 5 000 370 64 we limit the cash payment. That's not true. The other way around. From the perspective of an entrepreneur who has only a payment terminal today, it is to guarantee the consumer the freedom to choose the form of payment. Thus, to this amount of PLN 5 000 370 64 gr will change, if this indicator changes, we are talking here about the average average salary So the consumer decides and says, "I want to settle up with either a card or cash." If he wants to settle in cash, the merchant is obliged to accept that cash. This is someone who handles the payment terminal, provides the acquiring service. So that there's no risk that I can do more. Of course, the entrepreneur, if he is interested, is maximizing the profit, it will allow him to pay a much higher amount, but he will not be able to refuse and say: I do not accept cash, I only demand payment with a card, because it is the consumer who has to decide whether to settle with cash or whether to settle with a payment card. This is due to the fact that, in the current legal situation, it is so that if the merchant informs about the limitation of the circle of persons to whom the offer is addressed, e.g. Put up a card on the store's website about accepting only non-cash instruments as a form of payment, thus the part of consumers who use cash is automatically eliminated in the pre-contractual stage as potential interested in concluding a service or sale contract with such a merchant. After the entry into force of this law, the merchant will not be able to make the conclusion of a contract with the consumer subject to payment in a non-cash form, which will also be coupled with the impossibility of refusing to accept the cash marks issued by the NBP, which are, after all, a reminder, a legal means of payment in the territory of the State. As a general rule, if, at the place of establishment, the acceptor accepts non-cash payments, he should also accept cash payments and if he does not accept non-cash payments at that place, because the acceptance of payments takes place outside the place of business, then there is no obligation to accept cash payments at this place of business, but then the merchant is obliged to ensure that cash payments can be made in an efficient way. I will also explain your doubts here, which will result from the exceptions that have been presented. If it is possible to purchase tickets at the kiosk, also through a cash payment machine or in another formula, to pay this fee, then this obligation is maintained and fulfilled by the trader. But if the situation is that there is only a payment terminal at the place of sale or provision of services, then after this change of law there will be no possibility that I withdraw cash and the entrepreneur informs me: I refuse to accept this payment because I demand payment by card. Please note that we are also fighting the problem of social exclusion. We are talking about social exclusion of older people, we are talking about disabled people, but we are also talking about people who, for example, want to ensure that a given transaction can be settled in cash, so they decide to pay in such a formula. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 of that Article, as adopted by the Sejm, exempts from that principle by providing that the obligation to accept cash marks issued by the NBP does not apply: in the activity carried out on the Internet; in the place of establishment without the presence of staff... And this is where I'm gonna stop for a while. If we are dealing with the situation that there are only slots and these machines only support non-cash payments, then we do not interfere. If this is a place where there are no people, there are no staff who can accept this payment, then we don't modify it, we don't change it. So it doesn't inhibit this activity, there are entrepreneurs who do this kind of business. Similarly, we assume that if someone is operating on the Internet, he is usually a person who has the possibility to access also non-cash forms of payment. It is further that this obligation does not apply: during a mass event within the meaning of the law on the security of mass events, provided that the relevant information is provided in the rules of that event and also in the case of a one-off transaction, regardless of the number of payments resulting from it, the value of which is equal to the average remuneration in the enterprise sector. What does that mean? As I said, up to this limit, which according to the current indicator is PLN 5,000 370 64 gr, the entrepreneur cannot refuse. Above this limit, of course, he can accept cash, but he can say that he is not interested in accepting this cash if this amount was above PLN 5,000 370 64 gr. Why did we take such an indicator? Because in everyday life, the vast majority of transactions carried out either by card payments or cash settlements are transactions with a value of up to tens of zlotys. Well, this limit of more than PLN 5 000 is a safe limit in terms of purchases in terms of meeting basic living needs, the most frequently provided services or in terms of average salary, or in terms of retirement income. Well, this limit amount allows you to function freely. In addition, in accordance with paragraph 2. 3, the merchant will not be able to levy or charge fees for the acceptance of payments by cash marks issued by the NBP or to differentiate prices according to the form of payment. So we're saying that there's no extra charge for the entrepreneur accepting cash, so that he's asking for a higher amount. The Act is to enter into force 30 days after the date of the announcement. I would also like to stress that the law concerns the protection of the interests of consumers using cash, and this legislation must be seen in the light of their situation. The aim is to ensure that people who wish to make payments for goods or legal services are selected by means of payment. And I will draw attention to the fact that such solutions exist in many European countries, as well as outside Europe. Moreover, such solutions are now being introduced in many countries. In those countries where there has been some re-evaluation in terms of non-cash turnover, action is being taken to restore this cash turnover. Sweden, the country which is today the leader in these non-cash transactions, can be such an example. The President of the central bank of Sweden talks about restoring the role of cash. Such solutions appear at the state level in the United States of America, e.g. In a state like New York. Such a solution, as cash rules, means the obligation to accept cash, is e.g. Denmark. These examples could be multiplied. From the perspective of the central bank and the state, but above all the freedom to choose the consumer, this is today an absolutely modern trend, it is the introduction of such solutions, because at some point it was so that there was pressure to make them non-cash payments, and today we are talking about this balancing. This law has received a positive opinion from the European Central Bank, also available on the ECB's website, a written opinion which you have in the material. There was, of course, a discussion. As the rapporteur said, we, during the committee's work, declared that we would, of course, want to monitor this law and its implementation in practice, as it will be implemented. We are absolutely open to such an evaluation here. However, we must pay attention to this, and the High Senate has this knowledge that there are further changes to the law or the announced changes to the law which, on the one hand, will introduce such rules that entrepreneurs above the amount of money are planning to do so, it is included in the projects 8 000 zlotys will be obliged to account with a bank account and, on the other hand, they will provide for an obligation for the consumer to pay in the form of a non-cash amount of more than 20 thousand zlotys. And this will lead to the fact that, if we did not have this bill that we are presenting, cash will necessarily be displaced. This bill is intended to guarantee the consumer that the cash will be preserved and the consumer will be able to decide whether or not to use it. I stress that banknotes and coins issued by NBP are legal tender. As for these exceptions... The first exception concerns Internet activities. It was primarily about securing the interests of older people who, being unbanked, are often digitally excluded and use telephones to order various kinds of goods. In our view, such a situation is possible. I can be an unbanked person and I can place an order, for example. On the phone. That's why we didn't suggest means of distance communication, we just limited it to the Internet itself, because we say it's possible that an older person is placing an order, for example. by phone, and he wants to settle the deal by paying cash. Hence this exception is covered quite narrowly: the Internet. Because we assume that if someone can order on the Internet before they use it efficiently, they may be aware that there will be an obligation to settle cashless. The issue of activity without staff presence. With regard to self-service shops equipped only with cash-free payment instruments, if no staff is foreseen at all, the new obligation imposed on merchants will not apply. Well, we assume that this is a market issue. If it is necessary and there are shops without staff service, where you can only settle with a card, then as a customer I can decide that I do not use such a store if I have the option. We do not limit this activity that is being carried out. If the staff is present, it should be assumed in our view that every consumer should have the right to purchase in such a store also on the basis of cash payments. The adoption of this principle is due to the care of the interests of the unbanked. If the merchant in question does not depend on the conclusion of a non-cash contract with the consumer, i.e. effectively makes it possible to use his services or make a purchase of goods for cash, this law in his business will not change anything. This is the case, for example. in the case of public transport undertakings or other carriers offering transport services. As regards the amendments suggested by the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, submitted in print No 485 A, I will refer briefly to them. The first amendment would result in a very important change in the scope of the exemption in Article. Article 59a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) The modification in comparison with the current wording of the Act is that the consumer is not able to choose the method of payment in the case of a contract concluded by the Internet but executed outside the computer network. We have a situation that... in the course of the legislative work an amendment has been tabled, which we as the applicant do not recommend. It is even the opposite, we point out that this amendment should not be accepted, because the wording proposed by the legislator refers in general to contracts concluded online. And that's a big risk, because it causes such a situation that... if the High Senate accepted this amendment, the result would be that for any contract that is concluded online, there will automatically be no obligation to settle in cash. This is an absurd situation. I can order online or make a contract on the Internet, but I want to settle cash, and I shouldn't reserve it in the contract that there will be a cash payment here. The amendment proposed by the legislator in this regard would have such an effect. We don't recommend the first amendment. With regard to Amendment 2, which is only editorial, this is a change to either "or' to "or', we indicate that the present provision is a literal mapping of the article. 19 point 2 of the rights of traders. There such wording, with the use of this consistency, is included. This is a provision that currently provides that the consumer is obliged to make payments through a payment account and if the one-off value of the transaction... We have here a reference to these values of the bill. Besides, the proposed provision, the new provision, also refers to such a wording. This amendment is to be commended to the High Senate. As the Senator rapporteur has rightly said here, we do not object here. In our view, it is correct to write or write, but if there is a consistency here, it will not change the meaning of these provisions. With regard to the third amendment, concerning the deletion of the words "to impose neither', the applicant's position is negative. In this situation, the legislator refers to the specific type of fees, which are potential fees for acceptance of cash marks issued by NBP, imposed by merchants. Banknotes and coins are not payment instruments within the meaning of the Payment Services Act. In order to highlight the lack of the possibility of imposing charges in general, it is appropriate to leave the current content. After the meeting of the committee, we have analysed the National Bank of Poland, we have also analysed the President's Office and we do not recommend the adoption of amendment 3. The specific feature is that these provisions are contained in the Payment Services Act, and we are here to stress very clearly that there is no possibility of imposing an additional fee for someone clearing a cash transaction. And the fourth question, the matter of vacathio legis. The amendment of the committee extends the vacathio legis from 30 days to 3 months. Our position is negative. We remind you that unfortunately we are still in a pandemic state, and the problems of refusing to accept cash in this pandemic state have been particularly evident. In our opinion, the 30-day period of vacathio legis is sufficient for this information to reach all interested. We would like to avoid such a situation that we will wait for months and at the same time there will be problems with receiving and accepting cash, because in practice such situations occur. High Izbo, as I said, we declared monitoring this bill at the committee meeting. We will, of course, want to verify this on an ongoing basis, but these are modern solutions, these are thought-out solutions, these are solutions in the public interest, these are solutions that the President strongly recommends to you. Mr Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, in conclusion, I would like to stress that the bill submitted to amend the Payment Services Act will significantly safeguard the interests of people, consumers using cash in business also in the future, when the non-cash turnover gains even more popularity. I therefore ask you to give a positive assessment of the solutions contained in this law and to adopt them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u130	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's query to the President's representative related to the item on the agenda. And you're Senator Jerzy Czerwinski first.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u131	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As for the previous questions I've asked before, it's clear, though not quite. I'm gonna talk about this right now, and that's gonna be the third question. I also have two others. The first issue concerns sanctions. And what if the entrepreneur says, "Only with a card." What are you gonna do to me? There are no sanctions in this amendment. Of course, it's not about the big ones, not the ones that are in this bill for others... And yet some compulsion, as we call it, should be to implement this bill. And then there's the second line. I'm a little uncomfortable being added... I mean, pretty much everything's added. My lips are bothering me. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day It's about online transactions and charging, which means you can't charge. 'Cause on the Internet, in most cases, you pay differently. Online, let's call it remotely. In other words, it is paid in cash, e.g. When the courier gets here. What's it like with all this charging? Aren't you guys throwing out a baby with a bath? Will it be prohibited to differentiate fees in different ways of payment?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u132	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u133	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! High Izbo! As far as sanctions are concerned, they are, of course, because they are also derived from the provisions of the Code of Offences. If there's an unjustified refusal to accept a payment, it's a provision, according to my memory, for example, an article. 135 of the misdemeanor code on sales that can be invoked. Besides, we have bodies such as the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection and the Trade Inspection. The Trade Inspection will be entitled to this and may Because it will also be a condition for doing business according to the law In this respect, intervene, state. We're assuming... This is also the issue of this evaluation and what we have discussed, i.e. the evaluation of the functioning of these rules in practice. So that this duty is known, emphasized. This debate and the entry into force of these rules will contribute to this. And we're watching the situation. If it were so that those rules were based on, for example, the code of offences or the tools at its disposal. The Trade Inspection, they are not respected, it will potentially be possible to consider tightening up to say. Because it's not like there's no sanction. It's not like it's here... Maybe it's the system issues I'm talking about. But we assume that the natural trend should be that an entrepreneur seeking to maximize his profits, knowing that he cannot refuse and that his competitors also do not refuse, will seek to make this cash payment possible. And if there are situations like this, it's an opportunity to take out sanctions, as I said, whether it's by inspection or by code of offenses, including a fine. So we also accept the assumption and good faith and fairness of trading, and that Polish entrepreneurs will apply these rules. Please also note that in projects that are probably known to the High House... There is a proposal to change the law of entrepreneurs already publicly presented, which forces, in particular outside the premises of the company, to pay in non-cash form. Such a provision of business law is presented and considered in order to make it possible to pay by card everywhere. Well, since it's possible to pay with a card everywhere, all the more so, as the senator noted, it should be given, equally, the possibility of paying in cash. Therefore, these solutions are absolutely necessary for these changes, which will potentially be introduced by the Polish Load or which is envisaged by the Polish Load. As regards the exception, the exception applies to Internet activities. And here there is no differentiation, because we have an exception on the Internet, which is that there is no obligation to accept cash payments. So there will be no cash payments for the differentiation element. In any case, the point of this provision is that there are no additional fees for cash collection. That's the point of art. Article 59a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii)
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u134	Thank you. Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u135	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, this amendment is another very valuable initiative by President Andrzej Duda, aimed very much at the elderly, to a very large extent at people with disabilities, as always to those who need it. However, I would like to go back to my question and clarify it a little bit. I know that from the perspective of the seller's profit it seems irrational, but the seller has different employees and very often such a seller or employee has different relations with the consumer. And what will happen if, however, there is such a situation that the consumer will want to buy e.g. Two products, let's suppose, five thousand zlotys, and the seller won't accept that kind of cash? In this situation, will it be possible to make one transaction after another, as the Senator rapporteur said, meaning that perhaps the consumer will leave the store for a while, after a moment he will come back and be able to buy another such product? Is that how you interpret it here? Will there be such a duty? [[Social Advisor to the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, High Izbo...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u136	I'd like to expand on that. Have you repeatedly...? If so, under what conditions?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u137	Yeah, because this recipe... Yes, this provision provides: for a one-off transaction. So if there's a transaction that involves, for example, for purchase It's such an abstract example. Some jury, chair or something like that up to this amount of PLN 5,000 370, it is the seller's duty to accept payment. If in the same furniture store I buy some other item, then of course again I have the right to pay in cash up to this limit of PLN 5,000 370. Well, that's the limit that refers to a one-off transaction, regardless of the number of payments resulting from it, which is equal to or greater than the average remuneration in the enterprise sector without the payment of profits in the third quarter of the previous year announced by the President of the CSO. So we're saying this: the exception is that if it's a minimum of PLN 5,000 370 64 gr... And that's what you asked the senator because here at the end of the recipe is: or bigger than him. If the transaction is above this amount, then the seller can say: sorry, no, cash over PLN 5,000 370 or at least in this amount I do not accept, it is my will, I do not want. Yes? But in the case of an amount below it can't say that, because we say, well, you have a legal obligation to accept. In the old days, there was only a rule that provided that legal tender was... But you could bypass it by posting information that you just... And now you can't do that. The entrepreneur will have to accept, because if he doesn't, we'll have the right to run the proper services because it's illegal. So I have the right to demand intervention, to go to the district consumer spokesperson and say: my rights are violated, please initiate proceedings on my behalf, apply to the Trade Inspection, etc. So we think this limit is a reasonable limit. And yes, a one-time deal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u138	You're still Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u139	I would also like to ask, Minister, about this limit. Where did that limit come from? Should that limit be? 'Cause maybe without a limit, it'd just be easier. What is it like when it comes to such regulations, in other countries, where we have such situations?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u140	Yes, such limits appear and we are here modelled on such solutions, on different laws. My memory is that, among other things, Greece and other countries have such limits. And we considered this when we introduced this amendment. But there was also an amendment that appeared in the course of the parliamentary work, and there was also an objective criterion... Because there were different voices, too, that maybe it should be 8,000, maybe there should be a mapping of the 20,000... Finally, after analysing the value of the transaction, we took into account the average remuneration in the business sector. So what we're saying is, even a person in the absolute majority of situations is going to be like this with a salary above the median earnings... But we do know that the median earnings will be much lower. than the average wage in the enterprise sector. In any case, if such a person wishes to meet his needs in this way, to purchase goods or services, including a pensioner who has a pension and will be in this limit... But the senator's question, of course, is correct. I, too, spoke directly of this at the committee meeting. And that's what we talked about earlier in the Seym, and we repeated it in the Senate that we wanted to monitor it. And I don't rule out that this limit can be multiplied, because if there are such consumer voices... At present, according to the current legal situation, an entrepreneur can accept without a limit, but if consumers say, although this seems unlikely... As the senator said, the entrepreneur will say: thank you, I am not interested. Please pay attention... I don't know how much this will be visible to your marshal and to the senator, but I'll try to discuss such a short graph. This law now applies to merchants, a situation where there is a billing agent who provides a service to acquiring. For those who accept only cash, nothing changes because they accept and accept. Those who only accept transfers are recipients and nothing changes for them either. So we don't force... In the housing cooperative, the money was removed, but you can pay by transfer. And it's still gonna be like this. We do not order the restoration of cash, we only say this: wherever the terminal is, we will also be able to pay in cash. That's the point of this recipe and these solutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u141	Thank you. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u142	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I wrote it down here, but the Minister has already mentioned... For these small cases, the district consumer spokesperson is a good person to decide whether or not to try to settle certain disputes. In the case of such minor cases, it is worth using this institution. She is not yet fully exploited in Poland, but it is worth remembering that. Minister, there was no such thing as interpretation, and besides the bill, a ghost is important, so if I may say yes. If it's a payment... different. If I conclude a contract online and have options: payment by transfer, when receiving cash from the courier... It was always the case that when you chose to pay a courier, the seller charged slightly higher fees. According to the interpretation of what we're going to introduce, if I now order something online and choose to pay in cash because this option was on sale, will the company be able to increase that amount to pay me? It's just that the company chose to pay her with a wire transfer, a credit card, rather than a courier. That's one question. If you can't answer now, because these are things that come up at committee meetings plus from... Especially from consumers, entrepreneurs we had some questions about. And now the question of this bus. I know the answer, but it's worth the answer, Minister. So there's a bus and... [[Voice from the room: But...]] Kaziu, Mr. Senator, I would ask you very much... I know Kashubi are the smartest people in the world, but I would ask you very much... [[Voice from the room: But...]] Okay? [[Gentlemen, don't argue with each other.]] [[Voice from the room: It's...]] [[I know, but...]] I know what you said. It's Kashubian, but I got it. Minister, there was a question and I would ask for an interpretation. There is a bus, there is a ticket machine and it is possible to pay only with a card. And the question was, is the driver a service? 'Cause you used to buy a ticket at the driver's office. Is it or isn't it? I would ask you to answer so that what you say is part of the interpretation of this case.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u143	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! As far as the concept of "personal" is concerned, I also made it clear that there is a certain mapping of such an institution from the civil code, that is to say, an active person in the company's premises. The intention of the applicant is that if we are dealing with a person who performs cash handling, then it must be possible also cash payment. However, if the driver only performs the transport service, he does not make any settlements because there are slots, the situation is that the trader as such, that is, this carrier, provides the possibility of accepting cash, because for example these tickets can be purchased at the newsstand, you can buy these tickets in the slots. Here's what I'm gonna say. We're looking forward to it. This is the issue of evaluation we were talking about. That natural mechanism, that is even a postulated or desired state of affairs, should be this... Since there are such slots, I am talking about a certain projection for the future, it would be good, it would be best for the slots to provide both card and cash support. I think if those rules come into force. It's about the market mechanisms we're talking about. It's a natural trend. Since it will be known that you cannot refuse to accept payment in cash, then everywhere this cash should be fixed and accepted. I do not see any antagonism here in solutions that concern non-cash trading, because we accept them too, and the central bank accepts them, and the President supports them. However, we are talking about consumer choice and we are talking about combating exclusion. The point is that there are no such cases that the consumer is e.g. in a situation where you can't get to your town or go back to it after shopping in a big city, because when you pay, you can only pay with a card. Well, that kind of person is out of the question. Moreover, this aspect is highlighted in its written opinion by the European Central Bank, pointing out that exclusion in the public transport sector is particularly problematic. Well, this is a problem that is noticeable today from the perspective of the whole of Europe. The point is not to create such situations that by digital exclusion we lead to the exclusion of people from the possibility of using services. So absolutely out of the scope of this law is what is explicitly included here as an exception, meaning that we say that in the case of those machines that are maintenance-free, we can keep the status quo. However, in these other situations, there is a tendency, and we want this cash flow to be guaranteed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u145	Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind...]] Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u146	As I said, in answer to a previous question, this first exception concerns the issue of online activities, i.e. if we have online activities, we are not faced with the obligation to make a contract or not to make a contract subject to payment in cash. In other words, here this problem does not occur at all, because the bill would not concern it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u147	Thank you. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll give you a hard time, Minister. One question. It's been possible for some time to pay a policeman's ticket without cash. The question is, isn't there a contradiction here? I'm asking because, in a way, those with a credit card will be privileged. What if somebody says, and I want to pay cash because this and this bill gives me the opportunity? Well, there's no mutually exclusive.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u149	There's a shut-down. There it is. By the concept of a acceptor. Because we're not talking about a public administration, we're talking about an entity that provides aquiving services, so in this case the law will not be applicable, I'm talking about the Payment Services Act. In the course of the parliamentary debate, we pointed out that this is not the situation under this law on services. We do this: to the Payment Services Act, where there is a concept of merchant and where its rights and obligations are regulated, we introduce an article. 59ea and we say to him: you accept, from the moment the bill enters into force, you have no right to refuse to accept payment in cash. [[So a cop isn't an acceptable guy?]] Yes. In my opinion... We could be here eventually... He's still a professional in this case. Not your president, but the National Bank of Poland, Director Adam Tochmański, Director of the Payment System Department. Well, if there's a need, we can... Yeah, but I don't see the Director's denial, but he does agree that I've given a good answer. [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u150	But we're gonna ask. [[Mr. Marshal...]] [[Social Advisor of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: We can ask the bank if the marshal is...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u151	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Contrary to appearances, this is an element concerning other situations as well. In connection with the question that you asked Senator Czerwiński about paying on the example of mandates, and the answer that it is not an acceptable one, can we receive such an answer in writing from you? [[Social Advisor of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: I think so, if necessary, then...]] I would, if I could. [[Social Advisor of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: Yes? That's good, that's right.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u152	But what's it like with the railroad? I don't know. Can the conductor accept payment only with a card, or does he have... [[It's gonna be the same casus.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u153	Kazus will be similar to what the bus was about, because it's different there. It's about, like we said, there's got to be a way to settle it in cash. So if I can buy it in cash, then... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yes. However, as I said, I expect this and I expect that this bill will result in a double possibility, on the one hand, in cash settlement, on the other No cash. Anyway, just like we're talking about, if there's an extortion in the area of payment terminals, and so the legislator is designing it today, these are the announcements of the Ministry of Finance that there's going to be payment terminals everywhere... I believe that there must be balance and that it is for the consumer to decide whether to take out the card or pay in cash. And that's what our regulations are all about.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u154	Minister, is this about payment for goods or services?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u155	Yes. [[So a ticket is a commodity.]] Yes. [[Sorry to hint like that. Like salary, it's also...]] Mr. Marshal, you're absolutely right. I was looking at it from a subjective perspective, but of course you're absolutely right. The provision is written directly: the provision of the service or contract of sale of the goods. You gave the marshal an additional argument perfectly well.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u156	Minister, thank you very much. No further questions. [[Social Advisor of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: Thank you very much.]] I'd ask a member of the NBP Board, Mr. Andrzej Kaźmierczak... [[Social Advisor of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: Mr Adam Tochmanski, Director of the Payment System Department is in place. Due to your duties, the professor was unable to attend, but Director Adam Tochmanski is here.]] You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] No, no. I want to ask you something else. We still have a moment. If you don't mind, I'd like you to respond from your seat so you don't bother. [[Director of Payment System Department at the National Bank of Poland Adam Tochmański: Thank you very much, Mr Marshal.]] Mr. Director, I know that the NBP has decided to strengthen the money market, which is to increase the amount of money in circulation. If I'm wrong, then you'd better get me out of the way. This bill is basically going in that direction when it comes to philosophy. I would like to ask you why we want to strengthen the functioning of cash in circulation. Is this some kind of philosophy that says that our gold... that everyone should see this gold? If you pay cashless, cash disappears from our consciousness. Are there any other favors here? I'm asking because this is a change of philosophy. So far we have strengthened non-cash payments due to the grey zone. That was the direction. Now we're walking away from this. Of course, 5,000 300 PLN is not a big sum, but I want you to tell me what the NBP philosophy is right now and why it is not different.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u157	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I am, of course, very familiar with the subject of non-cash trading, because I have been taking care of it for many years. Indeed, many years ago, when the non-cash turnover was a few percent, a dozen percent, and the average in the European Union was much, much higher, we took various actions on education or increased incentives to increase non-cash turnover. Such actions were taken by various central banks, because cash was dominated at the time. About 10 and 11 years ago, the share of non-cash transactions in retail payments was about 10 or a dozen percent. There were, of course, different needs to strengthen non-cash trading. There were also various barriers, such as the fees on the card market, which we initially tried to address in self-regulation. It turned out that without the regulation initiated by the Senate it would not have been possible to do so in a market manner, and so praise the Senate for taking the right initiative some 9 and 10 years ago. The National Bank of Poland also took various actions. There is a special advisory and advisory body on the Management Board of the National Bank of Poland, the Payment System Council, which dealt with various topics concerning non-cash turnover. And it does. The National Bank of Poland supported and supported non-cash turnover, because it is a cloud, that is the heart of the payment system in Poland, through the operation of payment systems, the most important system, the SORBNET2 system, through supervision, through the conduct of various policy and development activities. But we also look at the actions of other central banks and how we can say, well, not that uncontrolled, but left exclusively to market action... We are looking at how certain actions are taking place in other countries, because we just want to take advantage of these experiences, from this wealth of other countries. This is, in particular, the example of Sweden already shown here, where, I would say, excessive leaving the topic to the market led to the fact that in very many shops, i.e. practically in most shops you can no longer pay in cash. In the number of payments, this represents only a few percent; ninety-seven percent are non-cash payments, and a few percent cash. Sweden now has a major problem with the issue of financial exclusion of the few. True, the elderly and the people in the north of Sweden, and there, however, this banking is a little bigger. We also wanted to copy some of Denmark's experience, because the Danes have put in place similar provisions in the law implementing the Payment Services Directive, which is the latter's Payment Services Act, which provide for the possibility to accept cash with certain exceptions, which are important on that market. Such an interesting exception, which is not here, which we do not propose, is e.g. that because of the safety at night at some gas stations, etc. You only pay cash-free. So that's the exception there. But there are other exceptions that we have copied here, we have proposed. And we've been preparing this project for a few years. First we introduced him to the government side, but the government side didn't benefit, didn't accept this project, which is why the President's initiative is very... Well, it was very important that the president took the initiative of the bill. So there is no, I would say, any change in philosophy, because still, I would say, we are developing or supporting the development of non-cash turnover, but we also want to keep, especially from a social point of view, the possibility and acceptance of cash, and access to it. Recently, among others. Due to statistical data and different events, the number of ATMs is decreasing, the number of branches of banks is decreasing, only non-cash branches are being created, so there are fewer and fewer cash access points in larger amounts, because of course cashback points are growing, but there are much smaller amounts of money, we can see that we should also take care of banknotes and coins as central bank money, naturally expanding, so to speak, the money of commercial banks as funds in bank accounts. But this central bank money is also important... The point is that he can have an important role, especially for those who... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...especially for those who do not have an account, they do not have a payment card, or those who, even with this payment card or other non-cash instruments, would still want to pay cash for various reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u158	Thank you, Mr. Director. I have one more question you can answer in writing. What amounts of cash have been traded over the last three years?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u159	What is the volume of cash turnover? [[No, how much cash is in circulation.]] If I remember correctly, it's three hundred and a half billion zlotys. [[And that's more or less?]] It's growing all the time, the amount of cash in circulation is increasing, among others. last year it was a very big increase. However, it should be remembered that cash has different functions. The share of cash in payment transactions is significantly reduced. Like I said, ten or 11 years ago, that was a dozen percent, and right now... I'm sorry, the cash-free payments were a dozen percent, and the cash was 80 percent. Currently, cash in retail payments is about 47% , and non-cash payments 53%. So that cash no longer dominates. Cash also serves as a thesauristic and foresight function. In this function, the cash circulation outside banks increased significantly last year.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u160	Thank you very much. [[May I ask you another question, Mr. Marshal? Okay... maybe not.]] Why not? You can, of course. [[Senator doesn't want any more.]] You don't want a senator? [[No.]] Good. I would like to inform you that the President's representative has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Leszek Biernacki. I'm opening a discussion... [[Voice from the room: Leszeka Czarnobaj.]] Oh, I'm sorry, of course. [[That's a pretty name you made up for me.]] Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, yes. I'm so sorry. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, senators Alexander Szwed, Mieczysław Golba, Ryszard Świlski, Mariusz Gromko, Viktor Durlak and Wadi Tyszkiewicz presented their speeches to the minutes. The discussion is closed. It informs that the vote on the bill under consideration will be held today... Today? [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]] All right. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u161	Thank you. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the remuneration of persons holding government positions and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 483, and the report of the Commission In print No 483 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 11 August 2021, the Sejm adopted a law amending the Law on the remuneration of managers of state positions and certain other laws. It was a parliamentary project. Yesterday, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration examined this law. The committees are asking the High Senate to adopt a bill of amendment. 13 senators from the joint committees voted in favour of this solution, no one opposed it. The Act concerns the remuneration of the President of the Republic of Poland, persons employed in the local government on the basis of a choice, the spouse of the President of the present and spouses of the previous presidents of the State, as well as members of the State Election Commission. In these environments... Surely, in the local government environment, this is an expected change, because it is the only professional group, and I am talking about local government and people who come from the choice, who have wages exactly the same as they were 20 years ago. I will remind you that in this environment, that is, senators and Members, this is of course a well-known matter 3 years ago there was an unexpected, completely unjustified reduction in wages in this professional group by 20%, i.e. the opposite movement was made to the one that was expected and justified. The wage is not adequate to the responsibilities and responsibility, it can even be said to be humiliating, because the people in question, i.e. the mayors, the presidents, the starosts or the marshals, have a one-man responsibility actually for the entire municipality or the city. It's a little different in the county and the voivodship. They often have a salary which is substantially lower than that of their subordinates. For example, in the city on the rights of the district over 100,000 inhabitants the president's gross wage is at the moment about 10 000 500 PLN, and net it is 7 000 500 PLN, also rounded, because it is also known that it depends a little on individual conditions. This situation has negative effects on the state because it reduces the level of governance at local level in local government. This triggers a destructive mechanism, namely a negative selection. I say it directly, although it sounds bad, but in a long time this is how these mechanisms work. This bill is imperfect. The whole system of remuneration in this area of administration should be changed. I'm not referring to the president's salary because the situation here is quite clear. Namely, this law maintains a multiplier system for determining the remuneration of the professional group concerned and is based on the basic amount, which is adopted annually by the budget law. Well, that's not the best solution. There's also a slight variation so far... And I think it's going to be held up, which isn't suitable for varying responsibilities and responsibilities either. So far, it has also been so that these wages were too dependent on the body constituting them. As will be the case after this amendment, it is difficult to say because the records are ambiguous. And I expect from the discussion that was at the meeting of the Joint Committees of Budgets and Local Government that there will be a tabled amendment that will clarify and improve this. We weren't ready yesterday, there was no record that would be good enough for the committees to accept him. But I hope that's ready right now. E.g. Senator Durlak made such proposals. Now I'm going to say what amendments were adopted by the committees, as the committees were making I'll remind you. For the adoption of this law, as amended. These are mainly legislative amendments, i.e. proposed by the Legislative Bureau. Unfortunately, on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative Office, it can be concluded that quite important provisions of this law have been introduced in an unconstitutional manner. Namely art. Article 119 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Constitution requires that the basic content, which will ultimately be included in the Act, go the full way of the Seym procedure. This did not happen with as many as 3 regulations. One concerns compulsory social security and health insurance for spouses of the presidents of the Republic of Poland. Well, it didn't go through... The amendments were tabled at second reading, i.e. they did not go through the full legislative procedure, and were declared non-constitutional by the Legislative Office. It is similar with the spouses of the former presidents and with the salaries of members of permanent electoral bodies. At the same time, all those who spoke at the meeting of the Joint Committees considered this provision to be justified. It was only a formal matter that decided on the adoption of an amendment which deleted those provisions. The next amendment concerned the valorisation of the remuneration for the financial year in question. This record was considered unnecessary and even harmful, because it duplicates existing records and nothing new It doesn't. The matter of the situation in which the President's office is being emptied in a different way than by the end of his term of office has been clarified. There was a legal gap here. I was talking about the limit in reducing the remuneration of the executive authority of the local government, which is introduced in this law, but is imprecise. There is no amendment here, I signaled that it would probably be reported. Similarly, committees ask for the deletion of transitional provisions, because the reason for their implementation was the assumption that they would be abolished by the introduction of this law, while according to our Legislative Office they would still be in force. The other amendments are technical and legislative in nature. To conclude this report, I would like to remind you that the committees requested the adoption of the amendment act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u163	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! It's a pity I can't ask those questions to the people in the Seym who've been prosecuting this bill. At the committee meeting there was a Member, and today she is not and I do not know who to address these questions. I will try to refer them to the rapporteur, which will be difficult for him when it comes to answers. But maybe the senator can give me an answer. What has changed since 2018 that the opinion on self-government salaries has been changed? Because the rapporteur spoke of appreciating the work of local government officials, but three years ago salaries were reduced. And another question. Is it that the government without a law could raise wages as it lowered them in 2018? Senator rapporteur, is it so that the law regulates the maximum wage and the regulation sets the wage up to this maximum wage and this happened in 2018, i.e. The maximum wage was at the same level, but the actual wages were reduced by a regulation? Now for the big question. How will the underlying amount be valued: depending on inflation or on the national average? Over 20 years, the base amount has increased so far. Okay, look out! By 5%. For 20 years. That's a question I've already asked... the senator has already said... I am somewhat appalled that procedural errors, violations of legislative procedures and the principle of constitutional compliance are the standard in the law-making process. But that's the conclusion. And one last question. What is the guarantee that, once the bill is passed, wages will increase? The law defines the maximum remuneration and the government determines the basic salary. The amount of this salary has been determined by who since 2015? Because in 2015 President Kaczyński lowered his salary by a regulation... [[This Decision shall enter ……]] Excuse me, in 2018. Why... [[I remind you, there's a minute to ask questions. You've already crossed that time.]] I'm almost done. Why is the bill, not the regulation, the pay of the presidents, the grooms and the mayors? The government and politicians are doing this discretionaryly by regulation. Why? [[These aren't really questions for me. I'll do my best...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u165	Okay. But since the senator says it's not a question for you, I should actually repeal it. That would be in line with the parliamentary custom, because you yourself, as the addressee of these questions, said that they are not for you. [[It's not the recipient, it's the sender...]] [[There's no one to address them to, there's no government representatives.]] There's no one else to address, so I understand that these questions... I don't think we even have enough cruelty in us to tell you, Mr. Senator, to be responsible for the government. But if you still want to take up this task, of course I can't deny you that right.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u166	It's so short. What's changed is that now everyone - Well, almost everyone thinks pay should be raised in the local government? I think it's just political considerations, economics. Nothing's changed about the rules. At that time this salary was far too low in relation to the responsibilities and responsibilities, and now it is the same, just squared. Can a regulation be amended? There were doubts and the elected local authorities referred the complaint to the Constitutional Court. I don't want to speak from memory right now, how it ended and whether it ended at all. In any event, the doubts were so serious that the complaint was filed. How will the underlying amount be valued? Well, the basic amount shall be adopted in the Budget Act. It is known that she can be freely accepted, and so it has been all these years. Hence such a large depreciation of professions dependent on this basic amount. In my opinion, this leads to a spoiling state, as I have already mentioned. And that doesn't change. That's why I was talking about the need for systemic changes, i.e. on the need for a wage regulation law, e.g. in the local government. Of course, this is not the only sphere that requires it. I think, for example. The senate self-government team can afford to come out with such a proposal. There's no guarantee of growth here. Well, unless that record I was saying wasn't prepared enough for yesterday's committee work, it was prepared. 'Cause that's what they were gonna do. And it will be introduced here. Only it is not an easy situation, because there should be flexibility here, but it is also necessary to protect this authority against, I will call it, the malice of the body constituting such an unjustified malice. At the same time, these provisions should allow for quite large differences in the remuneration of executives depending on the size of the local government and the scope of the responsibilities. At the moment, the difference between the remuneration of the President of Warsaw and the wójta of the smallest commune that exists in Poland is basically symbolic. This is not a good situation. I wouldn't want us to preserve it, but we're working on a specific bill and we're moving under certain limitations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u167	Thank you very much, Senator. Since there are no further questions, thank you very much. [[One question.]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u168	I have a question for the senator. You've been president of Gliwice for years. Were there any increases in the local government in the years 2008 to 2015? 'Cause as far as I know, And I was the councilman of Rybnik. It appears that there were no such increases. Well, we've depreciated work in local governments before, and now it's a result. There's trouble finding the right people for the right jobs. [[Well, that's the point. May I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u169	You're welcome. That is why the Senator rapporteur is here to answer the senators' questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u170	I will develop what I have said briefly in this report. Namely, at the moment this salary is practically the same level as 20 or even 21 years ago. Which doesn't mean she was stable the whole time. Before that reduction, which was three years ago, it was 20%. More. It has been reduced by 20%, which means that in years, suppose, 2001-2015 or 2001-2018 increased by 20%. Well, it's a simple bill. And, of course, it was an increase completely inadequate to inflation, to the minimum wage or to the average wage, i.e. de facto these were reductions. There was also an episode when wages had been reduced by 500 PLN before, and so it hesitated in small movements, with this reduction from 3 years ago being very severe, because it was going directly against trends, expectations, etc. [[Yet...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u171	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u172	I'd still like to ask... 'Cause this reduction was about presidents, vaunts, mayors, not officials, or... [[Of course.]] ...Vice-Presidents, etc. Yeah, well, it was hard on those who ran the cities.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u173	It also led to pathology, even deeper, because... Of course, there are tables that sit vice presidents, deputies, treasurers, secretaries, but there, using other tools for these people, one could ultimately raise the remuneration, for example through quarterly prizes, etc., which could not be covered by the mayors, mayors, presidents, etc. And that led to pathology, disproportion, which I mentioned, that the deputies were able to earn twice as much as the presidents and 100 people or more, in the office a little bit bigger, including the wardens or faculty directors. Well, at the moment, it is. It earns more than a person who has full responsibility for all the matters of the city or the commune.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u174	Thank you very much, Senator. Please, Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u175	I went a little deeper into these rules of compensation for local officials, both by choice and by vocation. This is, you have to say, a nice puzzle, as on the one hand we have the upper limit included in the bill, which is not specified in quota, but is defined... [[Multiplier.]] ...thoracically, it was 7 with a piece of... [[... 1.]] ...and that 7 was left, as a maximum ceiling, now it is proposed 11.5 and, on the other hand, there is a regulation that also talks about maximum levels, where it actually sets them at a different level. And now... There's gonna be a question. I just have to figure it out, gradually. And now, as for the mayors, the mayors, the presidents, it's kind of from the bill... It is only logical reasoning that if in the Act we raise this ratio to probably 11.5 times the base amount, then it should be assumed that after the entry into force of this law the Council of Ministers will also change the table and increase the maximum amounts that are there. But nothing is known about the deputy mayor, the president, because they don't have any coefficients, they've just been exchanged with maximum amounts. And here's my question. This is a parliamentary project. It's kind of weird at all, because... well, it's a question of whether the government is committed to the committee meeting... Well, who was there? Mrs Milczanowska, isn't it? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Did she say that she had it with the government agreed that there would also be a proportional increase, and what, as far as the maximum amounts for deputies are concerned, or was there no mention of this? It would be, well, rather strange, because Members make such a proposal, and in fact increases depend on the government. So was there a government representative, confirmed, said yes, will be, or isn't it known?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u176	Thank you, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u177	The quickest answer is, you don't know. [[Oh!]] We've been trying to find out. There was no government representative. The Member could not answer these questions because she did not know. Just a little bit of a harsh comment: logic has already lost many, and therefore it is not possible to rely on logic here. And I will point out that actually in the case of increases 'Cause that's the way it's supposed to work. The remuneration of executive bodies is natural to adjust the remuneration of deputies, treasurers and secretaries. Except these people are already making a lot more money than the president, the mayor, or even the mayor. So... It's not so drastic, but it still requires regulation, logical regulation. We're not gonna do that right now, but I think it's definitely worth going back to that. Here Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz declared that he was undertaking such a proposal based on a draft law, which I personally submitted to the Deputy Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the committee of government and local government three years ago. It was a consulted, full, well-thought-out wage regulation project in the local government. And on the basis of that, we can proceed with a bill that would, in colloquially speaking, make sense.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u178	Thank you very much, Senator. I must state that, although the senator is not obliged to do so, he is doing much better than a minute's time to ask questions, because your answers are usually short and concise, but the questions are never within one minute, as laid down in the regulations. I'm asking you to do the job... [[The average is good.]] Senator Szejnfeld's question lasts one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u179	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator rapporteur, we are talking about a bill that is supposed to regulate the pay of people from choice or appointment. We also have doubts about the deputies of these people. The issue is really important, because almost 2 decades of not raising wages or even lowering, has its consequences, of course, also for the quality of work, first of all sure, and sometimes for the quality of people doing the job. But you must not forget those tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of local workers who work in the local government. These people also suffer from the fact that their wages in relation to the average national wage and, in view of inflation, have radically lost value in recent years. Few of this, mentioned here, the mayors, mayors and presidents also make direct comments to me about the fact that they are losing highly qualified employees, the staff are leaving the local government to the private sphere, because local governments cannot pay them more, Primo, for legal reasons, and secundo, because of the lack of funds in the budget, which is constantly melting due to the current policy of the Government of Law and Justice. I would like to ask if the discussion on this law was discussed and discussed on this very important subject, i.e. quality... and respect for the staff of local government offices and all public institutions related to local government. And whether the support of local government units is planned in this respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u180	An estimated one hundred and tens of thousands of people work in the local government administration. These must be very often high-end professionals, because there is an overwhelming majority of decisions that are important for citizens and investors, entrepreneurs. This staff is professional. The government has been very professional. And it's worth taking care of these staffs. At the moment, there is indeed a drain of professionals, for two reasons, which the senator mentioned. In fact, there are drastically reduced current own income. This is a question of reducing income from personal income tax. And now there is a danger that this reduction will be even greater, even more drastic. [[Voice from the room:... documents...]] I know the financial documents saying that this is not gonna happen... According to these documents of the Ministry of Finance and the forecasts resulting from the Polish OSR on 66 cities on the rights of the county, the net operating surplus will have 59 cities. This is a disaster. And that's not gonna be evened out by these... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm a little disturbed by the senator's report. Of course, I can relate to that, but I think it's gonna be disrespectful to the other listeners. So I'm just gonna leave it without comment. I will return to the fact that current income has fallen very much, especially in relation to rising costs. And that's one reason for the problem of maintaining professionals. Because there's just less money to pay these local workers. The second reason the bill can change is to maintain some reasonable relationship between the president, the mayor, the mayor, the mayor. Who should have the highest salary and does not have And employees, for example specialists. Of course, these relationships are often broken, so to speak, and still suffer from this number of employees, because there are no additional disparities. When the wages of this executive authority And it's possible that then this competitiveness will be slightly improved.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u181	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u182	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, in your report, you stressed that, however, in the context of the salaries of local government officials, this is an important amendment. I'd like to ask... Actually, I have two questions for you. Were there any analyses at the committee's meeting, any comparisons as to how the current level of pay for self-government in the context of other Member States of the European Union is shaped? Did you compare it in any way? And in the opinion of the Senate Legislative Office, we have information that 267 Members voted in favour of this amendment in the Sejm, 166 against and 20 abstentions. Do you know what parliamentary clubs were against, among others. These raises for self-government?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u183	Thank you very much. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u184	At the meeting of the Joint Committees, there were no comparisons to the situation in other countries. Such analyses were not presented either. It's on the sejm's website. gov.pl are probably all the results of the vote. I won't give it to the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u185	Thank you very much. If there are no further questions for the senator... [[They're here, ……]] You're welcome, Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u186	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, there are questions. I would like an answer from the rapporteur because he knows what he's talking about. In short. It's about the article. 7 of this law, concerning Article. 4 Act on the social security system, in point 1 of point (a) b a new definition of the spouse of the President of the Republic of Poland. So far, the president's spouse has been a spouse. Everyone understood what was going on. And now the President's spouse may be another person appointed by the President of the Republic of Poland. What is the ratio legis of making this change? Where did she come from?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u187	Well, that's a pretty good question. We tried to explain this at the committee meeting and tormented the Member Sorry for the phrase. We haven't gotten any explanation from the applicants. Although it's intriguing and questionable, because I don't know what it is. Because in a situation where the president - A woman? - A woman? whether a man has a wife or a husband, the situation is simple, and when there is no, it is only then that he can identify a person. What's the matter? Who is this person? Does it have to be family-related? How tied up? No information. This is, in my opinion, a flaw in this bill. We didn't go through with it. Why? Because if they are accepted And in the committee, the legislative amendments proposed by the Legislative Office were adopted, and this doubt would be irrelevant. We have proposed that these proposals, which are included in the amendment, be justified in order, in accordance with the rules and in a similar manner, to complement these three missing elements in the new law. And then, by the way, you could change that record because he's highly questionable.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u188	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u189	If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal... Because this record isn't as shocking as it is weird to me, at least. Can you indicate, Mr. Senator, the places where... Well, this entry changes the definition in the vocabulary, which means it applies to the entire bill. This is not a single change in one of the articles. Where are the consequences of this change? What do we change by introducing this record, this extra person? What additional powers do we give this additional person? Please indicate that, of course, if possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u190	No, it's simple. It is about paying for the period of office of the spouse social and health insurance of the person indicated. That's all it's all about.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u191	Thank you. Do you have any more questions for the senator? Because to be honest with you, Senator Czerwinski's question brought to life. Are you familiar, Mr. Senator, with cases of political leaders, state leaders who do not have a spouse or a spouse? 'Cause there are cases like this. But they have e.g. close family members who de facto play a role similar to their partner, a role of supporter? And do you think such an indication could concern, for example: A president without a spouse, but with a father, a mother, a brother or a sister, or a person who plays such an important role? Because we know, also from the state life of our homeland, situations in which people who are relatives of important public persons, but who are not their spouses, also play such an important role. Do you think that such persons could also include this provision?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u192	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! I'm the humble committee rapporteur. This case was under discussion, and there was such suspicion that this was about a person living in a partnership, but we didn't expect that to happen. I can't explain it. Of course, there are cases of partners of the heads of state, but I can't say any more.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u193	Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but let me ask you a question. It would be very difficult to... This may or may not be the case, but the definition of marriage is in Polish almost unambiguous so far, and I do not think that it is possible to introduce a different definition of marriage by rules concerning the President of the Republic. Well, that would mean that the President of the Republic of Poland does not generally apply the definition of other citizens' marriage. That would be ridiculous. [[I'm not gonna...]] Okay, I get it. [[I won't try to answer that.]] I understand that neither you nor the Senate are the authors of this provision. [[Of course not.]] Yeah, I get it. Would Senator Czerwinski like to... [[I will simply repeat that if the first proposal of the Legislative Office is adopted, the discussion of this problem will become pointless.]] No object, I get it. If there are no further questions... [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal...]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u194	Because it's about... I'm sorry, Mr. Senator, High Izbo, but this is a change of definition, which is something that applies to the entire bill. But this is a base law. As in criminal law, the criminal code is the criminal code, so here the whole system is based on the Social Security Act. Will this have any further repercussions? Or, for example, This will also apply to people who can point out... And the former presidents? Does this apply To the former presidents, too?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u195	From what I understand, this will not apply to former wives of presidents, as until now only men have been presidents of the Republic of Poland. So that's the way it's gonna be formulated, but it's not gonna apply. [[But in the future, yes?]] In the future, yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u196	Thank you, Senator. The draft law was introduced by Members. To present the position of the applicants of the parliamentary project... Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] Ms Anna Milczanowska was authorised to present the position of the Members of the bill's applicants. Would you like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Voices from the O.R.: There isn't.]] Mrs Milczanowska It's worth noticing. It is not present at the Chamber's meeting as regards the draft law under consideration, for which, I understand, it has been authorised to represent the applicants. At present, I will only read this formula out of respect for the House, and may report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to the authorised representative of the applicants related to the item on the agenda. Unfortunately, this request of the Senate marshal cannot be met because of the lack of a Member to whom these questions could be addressed. I have a similar question for a government representative: would he like to take the floor on the bill under consideration? It turns out that there is also no government representative, which therefore means that there is a purely theoretical right of senators to ask questions to a government representative, since he is not there. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will try to fit in 10 minutes, although this is a very broad topic and requires an even wider discussion. I'll start with the conclusions. As for these questions that have been asked, and in fact this discussion just now, I would like to say this: hypocrisy is the greatest enemy of reason. Hypocritical. I would ask the question, but I don't want to name senators anymore: what has changed since 2018 that some representatives of the ruling party suddenly changed their mind? Did the senators who spoke in front of me also say in 2018 that local governments deserve money for their hard work, or did they sit quietly when the president, with one decision, reduced the wages of local governments by 20%? This is your hypocrisy. The bill that's being processed today is an extremely bad bill. But it's a better bill than none. I'll vote for this bill. As a self-government officer with a long-standing internship who is aware of what work it is, what responsibility it is for people, I will vote in favour of this bill. It's a bad bill, but it's better than none. This law lacks the dependence of wages on political decisions, prime minister, council, council, lacks clear differentiation depending on the size of the municipality, budget, prosperity of the region, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if you know this, but President Katowice, with a budget of about PLN 2.5 billion, earns about PLN 30 per hour. Answer the question of how much a plumber earns, how much an electrician earns. 30 PLN per hour earns President Katowice if you take and count the number of working hours and salary. We have as a self-government environment, which I also belong to as a former self-government officer, my law, much, much better. We, ladies and gentlemen, have already collected signatures under this law. We obtained the Marshal's consent and wanted to proceed with our bill, which Senator Frankiewicz was talking about, based on a project from 2018, which passed the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission. That bill is much, much better than that bill. And if this bill were voted out, if it were the will, regardless of the political options, we would report a draft of this law to work on it. Ladies and gentlemen, I also wanted to make it clear here: this is the money that is received by the mayors, mayors and presidents, this is government money, not government money. Often these concepts are confused. If someone decides this salary, as in 2018 decided... Well, the president decided on the payout, I repeat, from the local money. Based on the project from 3 years ago, this law, prepared by the Polish Towns Association, unfortunately in 2018 it was sent to the freezer, despite the fact that the works were quite advanced. And local government officials have been reduced by wages, attention, not by law, but by regulation. I'm talking about you being aware that today we're raising pay by law... But we don't know if these salaries are going to increase at all, because it's going to depend on the regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, in this project that we are preparing, we would like it not to be called a wage increase, because it's a term that upsets people. This causes someone to say that this money belongs to doctors, nurses, not self-government. We want to talk about wage regulation. Why? If, let's assume, in 2010, such a law passed through parliament and it would be addicted to, for example. on average wage or even minimum wage, it is today that we would not discuss too low wages for self-government people, because they would grow with the rise of wages, let's say, the average. So wage regulation, not a raise. In this project, the salary is related to the average wage. That's two and a half times the average wage. A lot? Not much? I think it's pretty reasonable. Today it will be, if this bill passes, 11.2% Some kind of illusory indicator. Ladies and gentlemen, I want you to know what this indicator is... That's the base amount. Here's the graph, if anybody's having second thoughts. This base amount, on the basis of which the wages of local government officials were established, increased for 21 years, attention, by 5%. I'll say it again: 5% for 21 years. At the same time, the minimum wage increased fourfold, by around 300% and the average wage increased by around 200%, three times. And the base amount is 5%. It's just sick. It has to be done, it has to be done by system. Ladies and gentlemen, it's about time... We'd like this bill we've been preparing to come into force from the new term of office. It's quite reasonable. That's two years from now. And it wouldn't cause such controversy in society. Ladies and gentlemen, it is high time to put an end to cheap populism in the affairs of our lives that we faced in 2018, when this hypocrisy peaked and the wages of local government officials were lowered. That's when they said you didn't go into politics for money. But the pay of a self-government officer is the manager's salary, that's the pay of someone who manages the organism in a way economically. You may not go to politics for money, but the mayor or the president should be well-paid managers entrusted with the assets on behalf of the residents. The fate of these people depends on their decisions. It's easier for me right now to appeal for an increase in the wages of local government officials, because I'm not that local governmentman anymore. But I've come out of this environment and I know what it means to work sometimes for 7 days after 24 hours a day. A good self-governmentman dreams of what he'll do at work even at night. In order for this commitment to be really complete, a certain wage is required. Each wage should be an exponent of commitment, the effects of the work put in place and, most importantly, the responsibility taken. In Poland we could not learn to value responsibility for many decades. Poles do not understand what it means to value responsibility. If in Germany to say that bürgermeister earns as much as, I don't know, his mid-level subordinate, someone would knock on the head. In developed, civilized countries, responsibility is valued. We don't. It's a lot of slogans that... when I talk about you having a weak uncle, mayor or president in town and people complain... I say, change it, you have a tool for it, which is a referendum, and you can call it back, and in the next election you can show him the red card and not vote for it. But people say it's populism, because in the case of a referendum there are too low thresholds, etc. It is possible to discuss how these thresholds should be lowered, but responsibility for mismanaged municipalities cannot be shifted, for example. He's angry... 'Cause I'm not saying two and a half. Thousands of the mayors, mayors and presidents are the best managers in the world. No, they're weak, they're weak. But if you choose them, you should also take responsibility for it. The application of collective responsibility, such as that some evil uncle, mayor or president has an impact on what is happening throughout Poland, is completely pointless. I would like to remind you that the wages paid by cities and municipalities for several years have not even moved. Given the reduction in wages in 2018 it should be noted that the salary of the uncle, mayor and president has been stable for 21 years. 21 years! I don't want to remind you of those famous words anymore... 'Cause you know what they've reduced the government's money for. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. It was like that old proverb: the blacksmith was guilty, and the gypsy was hanged - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. The local government was not guilty of anything, but in their case the reduction looked good politically, so the money was taken from the local government. That's why I repeat: at the time you didn't protest, so today talking about the fact that local governments deserve to be held accountable is pure hypocrisy. Ladies and gentlemen, may I remind you that the mayor and the president are responsible for all their assets, including the treasurer. I don't know if you know that only two people in the municipalities are responsible for making decisions with their assets. The clerk can pay a maximum of three times his salary, but the mayor, the president and the treasurer correspond with their assets. I would also like to remind you that local government officials have no prizes. I don't know if you know that. Even the best uncle, mayor or president, if he is even the best in Poland, won't get a buck as a reward. Well, he doesn't deserve it. And that should be changed, too. I'll say it again... Here I will give an example of President Wroclaw, who earns about as much as a truck driver. Of course, I have nothing against truck drivers, and I wish they could make as much money as possible. But 30 zlotys an hour's pay from the president of the 650-thousand-dollar city is a misunderstanding. The mayor, the president, is not to steal, he is not to take bribes, he is to work seven days a week several hours a day, taking responsibility for the lives of hundreds of thousands of people. What is the basis for the local government's salary? What I said earlier... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Excuse me, Mr. Senator, do you need another five minutes? Because it's already been ten.]] Yes, I'm asking for five minutes. And then I can fit in. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Good. Thank you.]] I'll tell you again, I'll tell you about this responsibility. We need to learn to value responsibility. It can't be valued, for example. The number of nails or digging meters of a ditch. If someone puts 100,000 nails in it, we'll say they'll get one and that's how they pay. And the president, the governor, the mayor... Their work in other categories should be valued. The mayors, mayors and presidents are verified every five years, so the argument that they are sitting, doing nothing and taking money doesn't get to me, because if there is a weak mayor or president somewhere, it can be cancelled either in a referendum or with a ballot, i.e. Don't vote for him in the next election. Our lives should be decided by the best of the best, but we cannot eliminate people who also have goals, dreams, want to build a house, want to go on vacation, want to take care of their children. We can't expect them to throw their dreams away and say, "No, at the expense of my family, my children, my home, I'm gonna do this job for some minimum money." And they're not enough to meet the real basic needs of those people who have to get dressed, they have to represent a certain level. 'Cause that's what the locals want them to do. It's time to stop with the slogans of work for ideas. Populism is not indicated here. Like I said, we want to entrust our lives to the best of the best. The president's subordinates, as has been said, make a lot more money today than the presidents themselves, sometimes 2, 3 times as much. Yeah, because there's not gonna be less money for a great manager, an educated professional, president of a huge city company. Is that normal? Ladies and gentlemen, I don't mean to be mean, but... a moment ago, Minister Mucha appeared here. And here's what I'm gonna say: maybe the next bill would have to do... Too bad he doesn't have a social president. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. Because if there was a social president, just as the president's advisor is now a social advisor, then such a president could be a social president and at the same time be e.g. a member of the bank's management board. Then in the bank he would earn 40,000 zlotys, as is the case at the moment in many cases, and as president he would get some symbolic amount. Of course it's a snake, so to speak, because it's a joke. The Sovereign often uses such an answer... When we say that the mayors, mayors and presidents don't make enough money, the sovereign says, "You don't like it, goodbye." Then I ask the question of who will perform these functions and whether we really are able to gain the best of the best. I'm coming to the end. I do not determine how much the president should earn close to 2 million Warsaw, and how much the governor of a poor, small, 4,000th commune should earn. This bill doesn't do it. So to be clear, this difference is still small. We need a new, good bill that's gonna make a difference. E.g. depending on the region's wealth, because that's also logical. It's in our bill. There is a rich region, let's say copper hole, the local government has a lot of money, is able to pay more to its rower. And if there's a poor region, it can pay less. This can be combined with the size of the budget, with the revenues of the municipality, effects, and certainly with the lowest or national average. This has to be done. Surely we cannot remain in the madness of primitive propaganda and demagogy, which causes enormous damage, although we are not necessarily aware of it, because bad emotions aroused by politicians are taking over reason. Today we decide to increase the number of base amounts. Once again, for the fifth time, this is an increase in the multiple of the base amount which has not changed in the last 21 years or has changed minimally, probably by 80 PLN in the last 21 years. We do not yet know whether the wages of local government officials will increase because it will depend on the regulation. And finally. Very often today there is an argument: bad time for raises. I'm the one asking the question: when will it be a good time to raise? He's never been good and he's never gonna be good. You have to make bold decisions... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator...]] Yes, sir. So it's a good time in 20 years? My permission isn't there. A company that pays less than a master will never succeed. That's why I, even though I think this bill is a bad law, it's a bad law, but there's no better law. I'll vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u198	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senators Alexander Swed and Janusz Płecherz made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would also like to inform you that Senator Viktor Durlak, Senators Marek Borowski, Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka and Wojciech Nebula and Senator Jerzy Czerwiński have submitted their legislative proposals in writing. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward... [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Oh, there isn't, so we don't have a problem. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 486, and the Commission's reports In the forms Nos 486 A and 486 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u199	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Dear guests! Report by the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment on the Law on the revision of the Renewable Energy Sources Act and certain other laws adopted by the Sejm on 11 August 2021. After considering the bill at its meeting on 8 September, the committees shall propose a draft resolution, i.e. adopt the law together with 5 amendments. The energy policy of Poland adopted by the government until 2040 sets out directions for the development of the energy sector. According to it, in 2030 the share of RES in gross final energy consumption will be at least 23% , not less than 32% in energoenergy, it will be mainly wind energy and photovoltaics, 28% Heating and 14% in transport with a large contribution of electromobility. The data at the end of June indicate that the capacity installed in RES is 14.1 GW. For comparison: at the end of 2016, it was 8 GW, i.e. the increase is significant, it is above 6 GW. Photovoltaics is the most dynamically developing RES technology in Poland. The total installed capacity at the end of June 2021 was 5.3 GW. My current plays a big role in this result of photovoltaics. He gained great popularity among Poles. In July, his next edition began. Wind energy on land. The installed capacity at the end of July 2021 was around 7 GW. In the next three to four years we expect to build another 4 GW additional capacity. As part of this year's RES auction, which took place at the turn of May and June, approximately 2.5 GW of power from RES installations were contracted, including 2,2 MW from photovoltaic installations, 321 MW from land wind installations and 1,18 MW from the hydro power plant. In total, 9,8 were contracted in the auctions carried out between 2018 and 2021. GW new power to be built in the coming years, including 5 GW from photovoltaics and 4.6 GW from wind power on land. Prosumers play a very important role in the energy market today. According to data available at the end of June 2021, we have 602 thousand 250 prosumers in Poland, while the total power installed in micro-installations is 3.9 GW. For comparison: in 2015 we recorded only 4 thousand prosumers and the installed capacity in micro-installations was about 25 MW. The RES industry is also new jobs. According to experts of the Polish Economic Institute, around 100,000 people work in the RES sector in Poland. I would also like to present data on electricity production in Poland. All production in 2021 amounted to 157.7TWh. 71.6 TWh was produced from hard coal, which is 46% The total brown coal produced 38.3 TWh, i.e. 24% , 16 TWh were produced from natural gas, i.e. 10% 15,7 TWh was produced from the wind, i.e. 10% , from biomass produced 8.2 TWh, or 5% , hydroelectrically produced 2.9 TWh, i.e. 2% And in photovoltaics we've produced 2 TWh, which is 1%. all production. The amendments proposed in the Act aim to reduce the concession obligations for small-scale entrepreneurs. This will be done by raising the upper threshold of the total installed electricity or heat output combined for renewable energy installations as defined in the Act of 20 February 2015. As a small installation, we will now understand an installation with a capacity greater than 50 kW but not more than 1 MW. The second extremely important issue is confirmation at the level of the Act of the current practice on how the total installed electrical power of the RES installation is determined. This is even more important in the context of the prospect of changing the qualification of the obligation from concession to registration. For RES power generators in the case of several thousand installations. The Act therefore takes into account one of the key elements of the auction system, i.e. the installed electrical capacity of the installation, which determines inter alia. participation in the relevant auction basket. The amendment introduces, on the one hand, a limitation of obligations for operators wishing to generate energy in small installations, on the other, will result in the transfer from office of licensed undertakings whose installations meet the conditions laid down for a small installation to the register of energy generators in a small installation. According to data as at 31 December 2020, more than 450,000 micro-installations were connected to the network in Poland. In view of the need to ensure adequate regulation for their development and on the basis of the observation of the development and operation of micro-installations under the desert system, it was recognised that the provisions on uniform treatment and settlement of renewable energy prosumers need to be amended. In order to determine in detail and in complete how the prosumers of renewable energy are to be settled, details have been made of Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 14 laws. It was also decided to repeal the Article. 21, which requires the operator of the electricity distribution system and the operator of the gas distribution system to provide the Director-General of the National Agricultural Support Centre within 14 days of the notification of the producers of electricity from biogas in micro-installations or biogas plants connected to the network. It is also proposed to add a provision specifying that, for the purposes of the law, including the application of the preferences envisaged for energy cooperatives, a member of an energy cooperative may be an entity whose installation is connected to the electricity distribution network. In order to ensure maximum transparency of the energy bill introduced into and received from the electricity grid by the individual members of the cooperative, it shall be extended to Article. Paragraph 38c. 9 the obligation for energy cooperatives and their members to inform about the amount of energy they have cleared and to ensure the functioning of the electronic system by which the energy cooperatives and their members are made available measurement data and details of the billing. Another area of change is the extension of the maximum period: the obligation to purchase unused electricity at a fixed price or the right to surcharge the market price of electricity under the FIT and FIP schemes; the obligation to purchase electricity at a fixed price or the right to surcharge the market price of electricity under the auction system; until 30 June 2047 which coincides with the maximum time limit for granting public aid, i.e. until 31 December 2027. The deadline of 30 June 2047 shall also cover the period necessary for the investor to meet the obligation referred to in Article. 79. 3 point (8) (a) a Act, i.e. first sale of electricity under the auction system. And another thing that's important. The possibility of obtaining operating aid only in FIT and FIP systems for small water and biogas installations with a capacity not exceeding 1 MW has also been extended by an additional 2 years. As a result of the proposed change of more than 400 hydropower plants and about 80 installations producing landfill biogas, hereinafter referred to as BGS, and other biogas plants, with capacity installed up to 1 MW for which the 15-year support period has expired or in the current year and subsequent years, it will retain the right to obtain operating aid. It should also be noted that the operating costs incurred by producers using biogas installations due to the need to buy fuel or the costs associated with the water and sewage economy cause that, in relation to other technologies such as wind and photovoltaic energy, they are significantly higher and closely related to the technology in question. I would still like to return to the solution that caused the greatest controversy. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 The provision of the Law of 19 October 1995 on the management of agricultural property of the State Treasury was amended to avoid allegations of non-compliance with European Union law consisting in favouring certain entities in the development of the property belonging to the agricultural holding of the State Treasury. The lease of these properties to the companies referred to in the proposed provision will facilitate the implementation of the obligation to maintain the functionality of critical infrastructure facilities, including reducing the impact of potential accidents on the security of the state and citizens and maintaining the efficiency of public administrations, institutions and businesses. In order to contribute to the achievement of the Union's targets for RES participation in gross final energy consumption, it is necessary to allow rapid access to the land on which such investments will be carried out. It should be pointed out that the State Treasury owns 31 thousand 427 ha of land, including 1 thousand 551 ha of undeveloped land and 29 thousand ha of leased land, which may potentially be used by their development for the purpose of obtaining RES. And that's all in the committee's report.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u200	Thank you very much, Senator. I would ask the rapporteur of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, Senator Janusz Błucher, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u201	Dear Marshal! High Senate! Report from the Extraordinary Commission on Climate Affairs on the Act adopted by the Sejm on 11 August 2021 amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and certain other laws. On 17 August 2021, the Senate Marshal referred the bill to the committee. After considering the bill at the sitting today, the committee asks: The High Senate will approve the attached draft resolution. Well, I'm a little lucky today because Senator Wojciech Piech has just presented a report to the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment, which I also attended yesterday, and presented both the main purpose of the law and, in very detail, the resolution of this law, so I will not repeat it. I will only focus on the problems raised at the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs. In addition to the position of the Legislative Office presented by the chief legislator, Mr Sławomir Szczepański, an additional opinion was presented at the committee meeting. It was practically an article. 2 of this law, about which the senator has also just mentioned, which article allows the lease of agricultural property of the Treasury to capital companies in a non-negotiable manner. Both the professor's opinion and the Senate Legislative Office's comments to the article. The two laws overlap to a large extent. As for the substance, it is a provision of the article. 39 point 2a of the Law on the Management of Agricultural Real Estate of the State Treasury. And this is the article that raises doubts in the context of the article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] shall apply mutatis mutandis. 32 I will only present here the conclusion of Professor Chmaj that following the article. 2 of the Act of 11 August 2021 amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and some other laws are being amended by the Act of 19 October 1991 on the Management of Agricultural Real Estate of the State Treasury in such a way as to differentiate the legal situation of capital companies subject to State authority over other investors in the RES energy market by favouring state-owned companies, which is to enable the lease of agricultural real estate of the State Treasury without the tendering procedure. The regulation under examination also leads to a restriction on the freedom to conduct business by RES market operators as well as to a breach of competition rules. The case can also be classified as State aid to state-owned companies. The above interferences in constitutional principles and related subjective rights are not justified in other constitutional values according to Prof. Chmaj, including in particular in respect of public security, which are referred to in the explanatory memorandum of this law. Designed solutions do not contribute to the security of critical infrastructure and can lead to negative effects in the form of inter alia. a decrease in the pace of achieving the target to increase the share of RES in final energy consumption. Consequently, Article. 2 of the Act under examination is contrary to Article 2 of the Act referred to above. 22 and 32 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. In addition, the regulation under examination does not meet the proportionality condition, which demonstrates its contradiction with Article. 22 and Article 22 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers In view of the far-reaching lack of precision of the provision, resulting in a lack of transparency in assessing the grounds for exempting a transaction from the obligation to pre-negotiate its tendering procedure, the regulation under examination is contrary to that resulting from the Article. 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland principle of rationality of the legislator's actions, decent legislation and the definition of law. In view of the nature of the interference, the regulation under examination may also conflict with the European Union's rules on competition protection and the limits on the admissibility of State aid. Ladies and gentlemen, these issues were also discussed yesterday at the meeting of the Joint Committees, but the discussion at the meeting of the Climate Committee ultimately led to the amendment being tabled. First proposed by Senator Jolanta Hibner, and then Senator Stanisław Gawłowski, who crossed out the controversial article. 2 of this bill. In the end, 16 votes, in the absence of votes by the senators holding back and against, were voted on this amendment, followed by the entire bill with this amendment and with 5 amendments previously proposed by the Senate Legislative Office, which were taken over by Senator Gawłowski and passed yesterday. I kindly ask the High Senate to adopt this law together with the proposed amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u202	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Adam Szejnfeld was the first.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u203	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal, Mrs. Marshal. Yeah, I had a question for Senator Bubbles as rapporteur, but... I'll be honest with you, it was about the article. I don't think it's controversial, it's scandalous. It is not only against the law of the European Union, but simply against the Polish law. I ignore common sense and respect for the Polish Constitution and the principle of free economic activity. However, the rapporteur has discussed the subject very widely, and he has also shown that there will be an amendment which, moreover, did not cause controversy at the committee meeting and, therefore, thank you very much for this information.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u204	Thank you very much. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u205	Senator rapporteur, I have a question: was there a case of non-compliance with EU law of competitive advantage? The point is that the companies of the Treasury will have access to the land listed here by the Senator of Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury, i.e. 31 thousand 427 ha of such land, etc. Entrepreneurs don't have that kind of access. Isn't that illegal public aid? Because it's basically unlimited access to the agricultural resources that are in the country. State Treasury companies will be privileged in terms of access to these land. How's it look? Is that in line with EU law? Isn't that gonna be raised in some international committees?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u206	Both yesterday, but especially today it was raised, as I said, quoting Professor Chmaj's opinion. This is what is raised in this opinion, and that is why this amendment deletes the article. 2 of this bill. The problem was also raised yesterday, but this is the previous rapporteur... Well, I was also at the meeting of the two joint committees. Like the senator, I have local government experience, and I know that intransparency in the local government is as if at the end of a trial that may even be held by the president. Just in case, even when we set ourselves some levels to which simplified procurement procedures can be applied, in the local government we did everything in order to apply procedures so that no one had any objections, did not indicate that we were making someone privileged. Hence, of course, such proposals will raise concerns. on the transparency of processes, but also on the potential corruption of transactions, etc. Just in case, I'd avoid this kind of solution. Therefore, these comments that have been made here are certainly very appropriate. And that was done at today's meeting of the Climate Committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u207	Thank you very much. Senator Stanisław Lamczyk. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u208	Thank you very much, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for Mr Piecha. Namely, don't you think that the Act prefers corporate energy, and the electroprosumer is pushed down, can you say, to reactive actions? That's one question...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u209	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u210	This controversial article. 2 concerns the critical infrastructure operator, i.e. companies of the Treasury, and private companies that are entered as operators of this critical infrastructure. We cannot allow this freedom as a state, because it is an infrastructure that allows us to supply electricity, gas, water, etc. It must be transparent, transparent and must be in the hands of the state or the local government, it cannot be a private entity that can turn off the tap or turn off the electricity at any time. Well, it has to be regulated somehow. That's what we talked about. Mr. Director explained it like this art. 2 should be read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u211	Thank you very much. [[Me too.]] Senator Alexander Swed. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u212	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator... All in all, Mr. Senators, because both in the report and in the second report were referred to lease land under RES. I would like to ask if, as far as these lease land are concerned, they will be dealt with in some specific guidelines. Was that mentioned at committee meetings? Are they any different from those that have ownership structure?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u213	As far as I'm concerned, these land will be leased on the same basis as other land, i.e. the value of the lease will be determined by the value of the land. It's not a bargain, it's not free. By the companies that lease it, it'll be paid.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u214	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else? Thank you very much, Senator. No further questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Climate and Environment has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Welcome to the House of Minister Adam Guibourgé-Chetwertyński and the President of the Energy Regulatory Office, Mr Rafał Gavin. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u215	Dear Marshal! High Senate! Mr. President! Thank you so much for the opportunity to present a government project. This is an extremely important project for the development of RES in the country, to achieve our goals under the Paris Agreement, for the transformation of our energy mix. It introduces a number of solutions that will improve investment processes, facilitate investment in RES, help transform our energy towards zero-carbonity, so that we are able to meet our ambitions, achieve the goals we have set ourselves by signing the Paris Agreement, and modernise our energy. In a few words This was presented very well by the rapporteurs I will tell you what are the most important solutions that have been introduced in this law. First of all, it is an extension of the RES support systems. These are restrictions on the obligation of the concession, we raise the threshold for installed capacity. This is also an extension of support for biogas and hydroelectric plants. These are regulations that will be issued on the basis of this law concerning the quantity and value of electricity to be auctioned. There will be important information for investors to plan investments in advance. The last most important amendment introduced by this law is the facilitation of the location of RES installations, the lack of need to take into account in the study of land use conditions and directions in a given municipality, which has been positively assessed by the Joint Commission of the Government and the Local Government. In short, it's about major changes. I would also like to refer to the change that caused the greatest controversy here, that is, art. 2. To be honest, I think we have here an excellent example of rhetorical art, which is to build a false image of thesis, so that it will be easier to overthrow it later. After all, this amendment does not say that the companies of the Treasury... Senator Bladder emphasized this in his last statement. This is an amendment that applies to all companies. There are companies which are not State Treasury companies and which are in the possession of critical infrastructure. If we really want to proceed with the modernisation of our energy sector, if we want to facilitate the transformation of this sector, I think it is advisable to introduce such facilitations for companies that have such infrastructure to be able to modernise faster. I am afraid that not introducing this provision will slow the pace of changes in Poland. In the context of the climate challenges we are facing, I find this pointless. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u216	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, the senators can raise a question from a place of no more than a minute to the representative of the government relating to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Stanisław Lamczyk. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u217	Thank you very much. I have a question for the Minister about this increase in RES per year. It could be said that this program was even drugged, that the program was growing and that at that time the RES was 5 GW. Isn't that what's causing this whole system to deregulate? That's one question. And isn't it worth it... Because the President of Polish Power Networks is here. I know that in the agreements concerning the Baltic farms it is precisely that Polish Power Networks will run as if power from these farms, and it is very expensive. Isn't it also worth spending money on making these networks that are not efficient for prosumers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u218	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u219	Thank you so much for these questions. As regards the development of RES, it is clear that the development we have seen in recent years has been possible thanks to existing regulations, existing support programmes. This was also mentioned by the Senator of the Environment Committee's rapporteur for the programme "My currents." However, we believe that if we want to continue to support the development of RES, we need further changes, further facilitations to increase the number of investments in this area. As far as network issues are concerned, this is a very important element or condition for the development of RES. In the context of maritime farms, we have included in EU funds programmes that will support the investments needed in this area, and we have included programmes on support for energy storage, which will also facilitate the development of RES at local level, for example. by prosumers, enabling or facilitating network management and discharge of energy produced at peak production times e.g. solar energy when demand for solar energy is low. So these are the most important directions that are included in our support plans.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u220	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u221	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I would like to in a way urge, or actually ask, small water plants. Whether these changes contain simplifications and facilitations for all types of RES, or e.g. Small water power plants are here in some way, so it's called, grilled, will they have any additional powers? Why am I talking about this? Because these small hydropower plants, especially those that flow, are generally not contested by local communities, they also have additional retentional significance. Well, now, you know, drought, etc. Flood prevention. And, what's important, you can still see in the field, for example. with these leaks, millers, that is, there are places where you can see that this leak and the terrain can be used. And, as I'm saying, there are some types of RES that are causing some controversy, and I won't mention the windmills, and I won't mention the windmills on land. Minister, are you expecting any extras? This is a follow-up question. ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. just for small water power plants?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u222	As the senator said, this project concerns a wider scope and various forms of RES, but among others. concerns these small hydropower plants. And I agree exactly with the senator that these small hydropower plants have a number of environmental advantages. Not only are we able to produce renewable energy, without carbon emissions, but using e.g. These mills in villages also reduce environmental damage associated with such installations. They also bring a number of benefits in terms of retention, which is important during the drought period. So we consider this to be the right course of development and therefore we extend the possibility of obtaining operating aid for this type of investment for an additional 2 years. All small hydropower plants, those whose capacity does not exceed 1 MW and which have so far benefited from this system, will continue to benefit from it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u223	I'm gonna point out one more thing. They are easily controlled, Minister, because they can be activated or stopped at any time, and that is not always possible when it comes to different forms.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u224	Yes, of all forms of RES this is the one that is most friendly when it comes to network stability, definitely.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u225	Thank you very much. Senator Stanisław Lamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u226	Thank you very much. Minister, I know that a new RES project is being conducted in the Seym under the leadership of Mrs Emilewicz. What is the Minister's opinion on this bill? Do you know this project? He turns everything upside down.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u227	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u228	We are working very closely with the Member on this project, because I do not hide that, as the Ministry, we had very similar plans in preparation. We found that since they are very similar, it is probably possible to combine the ideas that have been developed in this parliamentary project with those solutions that we have been working on. I hope that this will help to prepare good solutions that will further facilitate, in this case even more towards prosumers, and which will facilitate the development of RES.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u229	Thank you. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u230	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I have a question about photovoltaics. Namely at the beginning there was an incentive to create these installations. And indeed, when you drive Poland, you can see that how long and wide these installations are very much. Sometimes it even looks funny, because there's a small bypass, and there are actually panels next to the building, because the building itself is in the shade, and the space next to it is sunny, so these installations are placed. People were promised various bonuses on this occasion, 5,000 etc., and we know that these conclusions lie and are waiting to be processed. What's the situation? Citizens may be discouraged from taking action on small installations related to renewable energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u231	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u232	I'm kind of glad that a program like my current might be the victim of such a gigantic success, so to speak. The payment of these measures and the signing of contracts with applicants, thanks to some facilitations that have been introduced by the National Environment Fund, are ongoing. This is a direction that is very needed when it comes to further development of RES. In the last edition of this programme, we have introduced solutions that encourage prosumers to match the amount of energy produced, the size of installations to their own needs and to make greater use of the energy produced on the spot, because this involves less network costs for the rest of society, for the whole society, which are otherwise higher. The next edition of the program is also going very smoothly, we are already working on the next edition of the program.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u233	Thank you very much, Senator Jackowski again.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u234	I would also have a question about these water thresholds. Well, before the war there were a lot of them in Poland. Of course, it was also a different time in terms of technology, at the time it was, it seemed, in many situations, optimal electrical installation. I have a question: does the government estimate how to increase the amount of energy produced in this system? Are there any estimates in this regard? And are there any incentives planned? I ask this because I get signals that the installation itself is very expensive, while incentives that would encourage potential investors to enter this system are inadequate to those, let's call it, profits. So the question is, is there any work going on here in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u235	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u236	It is for this purpose, among other things, that we decided to extend the possibility of obtaining support for this type of investment, because of all the advantages that I spoke about earlier in response to Senator Czerwiński's question. In line with our reflection on the programming of cohesion policy measures, we also take into account the direction of small retention as one of the investment directions, so it is possible that in this context There will also be further support programmes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u237	Thank you. Thank you very much. Senator Tyszkiewicz. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u238	A very short question. Minister, in connection with the production of RES, what is the proportion of companies of the Treasury and private producers at the moment? Yeah, plus minus... What's the order? Are these sizes?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u239	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u240	I can answer in writing, but that's out of the question... [[No, thank you. I'm gonna go find it on the Internet.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u241	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Adam Guibourgé-Chetwertyński: Thank you.]] Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u242	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Print Act 1129 and 1424 is heading in the right direction. We, Minister, support it because it limits the licensing obligations for entrepreneurs engaged in small installations. This is to be done by raising the upper threshold of the total installed electrical power or heat output combined for the RES installation, defined as a small installation. The capacity of these small installations is increasing and the maximum heat output in combination is between 500 kW and 3 MW. This is the direction, Minister, the right direction. I also talked about this at the meeting of our Committee on National Economy and Innovation. However, I must admit, we are concerned about the kind of information that comes to us. Well, they're in the draft law, and that's what my colleagues said at the meeting, and I asked the questions myself. According to which companies of the State Treasury will be able to obtain land in a non-interruptible manner from the National Agricultural Support Centre in order to install certain installations. This is, Minister, disturbing. All legal entities should have the same opportunities. It's in a civilized world. From the very beginning, since this law appeared, I wonder: why do the companies of the Treasury have such a privilege, why should they have the privilege of receiving land from the National Agricultural Support Centre in a bargainless manner? Why does this apply only to companies of the State Treasury? If we are moving towards the development of renewable energy, why do these privileges apply only to these companies? It is clear that a significant part of the investment in RES is carried out in Poland by private capital entities. The privilege in the Act is to apply only to companies of the State Treasury, as raised by NGOs and as mentioned in the opinion of the Legislative Office. This was also mentioned by the legislator at our committee meeting. Such a solution may also be contrary to the Constitution, because it violates the principle of equality and completely irrationally restricts the freedom of economic activity. Moreover, there are voices that the mechanism proposed by the Act may be incompatible with EU state aid rules. Why should such aid be granted selectively to public companies while the same needs were shared by other entities? This is the solution, in my opinion, very irrational. There is also a problem of transparency and corruption mechanisms at that time. This is always the case when there is an opportunity to obtain something without a tender, it must a priori raise huge doubts. And what happens when companies, Minister, e.g. Are they going to rent this land to other entities at a profit? How will this contribute to the achievement of RES objectives? Art. 2 laws in this form should be rejected by the Senate because in no way provides permanent support for RES. That's not all. The state not only restricts the freedom of business, but even restricts the program My current, in version 0.3 to 3.0. You're already cutting the funding completely, changing the rule, cutting the financial envelope for the program, my current. In addition, in version 2.0 of the programme, you have reduced resources because people have submitted applications and more than 200,000 applications have not been received. support of between 5 000 and 3 000. When are you going to finish and just put in place a specific program, a specific bill that will close the discussion on this? The project envisages introducing a number of mechanisms by 2054. It extends the duration of the discount settlement mechanism under the Prosumer system, although, as I said just now, this will probably change. The Act also extends: the obligation to purchase unused electricity by micro-installations of RES operating outside the Prosumer scheme; the obligation to purchase unused electricity at a fixed price or the right to surcharge the market price of electricity under the guaranteed tariff scheme; the obligation to purchase electricity at a fixed price or the right to surcharge the market price of electricity. Within the framework of the so-called. the auction system in accordance with this auction project will be extended until 2026. Interesting is the situation of hybrid installations. We talk about these hybrid installations, we talk about energy storage, we talk about a lot. And this is one of the key issues that we should be dealing with, speaking of distributed energy, of course, it's a shame that it's so late. In the case of hybrid installation, it is said that 5% the energy from the warehouse should be put into the network within a year, otherwise there will be no assistance if it is auction. According to the regulations introduced, all installations above 500 kW will have to be included in the spatial planning plans, except that photovoltaic installations on roofs will not be included. As I understand it is also prepared to use these solutions with a virtual prosumer, of course. On a subject, Minister, we support this law and support any action that maximizes renewable energy sources, but bearing in mind that we are calling for a clear strategy on renewable energy sources. The point is that it is connected, on the one hand renewable energy sources, and on the other hand a system that ensures the security of the entire energy system, including of course energy, conventional or nuclear, which will safeguard RES sources. And finally... Minister, you're thrilled with coal. Six years ago, you blew up the RES. At least today you've verified it, but I'm sorry to say that this wasted time is gonna be hard to make up for. Let me remind you that your policy has led to such a situation that electricity prices in Poland are higher than in our western neighbour, Germany. You said if you raise those prices, you'd compensate for that raise. And what does your prime minister say today? He drives around the country and tells stupidity that electricity prices go up through the European Union. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u243	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record... [[Me too.]] There you go. The senator wasn't registered, but if you... [[I thought that...]] There you go, Senator Stanisław Lamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u244	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! We have the highest wholesale energy prices across the European Union. Energa, Enea, Tauron, PGE are government corporations that form a monopoly. If there's no competition, the prices will go up. Today, the Minister of Assets announced that this would be the case, and that has been the case since January. The media reports it's going to be about 40% higher. Poles will pay high energy margins, as we are already paying for fuel. As we know, the margins of Orlen or Lotus at the moment are above 30%, while the small stations, the private ones, have margins of approx. 3% And, colloquially speaking, they bleed out, they can't invest. What's it gonna be like with the prices? After all, the URE sets the prices by approval. Has anyone ever heard of the URE not agreeing to the drastic price increases offered by these four companies? I know how costs are analyzed. I used to analyze energy prices in Gdansk and I know how it was done. Who's gonna hold it? What about our exports, our competitiveness? Companies that need a lot of energy to produce will stop investing in Poland. Well, for example. Belgian companies, which produce tiles, no longer want to invest here, and were interested in building a tile factory in Poland. The law we're investigating violates the laws of electro-consumers and investors as well. They were pushed into reactive action. In this law we have a clear preference for corporate energy. Energy monopoles have failed in any country with a healthy economy. Why can't we learn from this? The most important is the experience of a law that changes the energy order... Maybe I'll talk about the story, the way it was. The Americans first realized that a demonopoliation of the energy market should be done. The PURPA Act after two energy crises, in 1978 and 1982, led to the first step. It was similar with the British energy industry in 1989. This reform revolutionised the global foundations of the energy system, created energy in the Euro-Atlantic zone. She allowed the other one to privatize... It was a stage in the demonopolization of the electricity market. The third law is the Polish energy law of 1997. Its political breakthrough involved carrying out all Polish energy from the Soviet Zone to the Euro-Atlantic Zone. Nevertheless, it was a law which did not create the basis for reform, but provided energy security for Poland in the European space. What are we doing in Poland with energy? We create in August, actually at the turn of August and September, the National Energy Safety Agency. Of course, it is created by companies of the Treasury, government and ZE PAK. Risk monitoring is necessary, but it doesn't work if it doesn't stimulate needs... We need to confront the threats. The ominousness of the growing threat in the Polish reality is that by means of media propaganda, such a cognitive error occurs in the public space, that the incumbents, including the political and corporate establishment unable to undermine their competences... It is clear that, in terms of energy transformation, protection requires first and foremost... This is about the effects of the end markets for corporate energy. It is therefore necessary to block the political development of the electroprosumer markets. As a result, the message that the European Union and the world are on the wrong path is becoming increasingly vulnerable. This law resigns from the bottom-up construction of the infrastructure of the electroprosumer markets. The position of the Polish Energy Networks is also bouldering. It is about Mr Sikorski's statement, as well as Minister Piotr Naimski's, that the capacity of the network is limited, that this could lead to disaster. We need to stimulate the substantive debate as soon as possible and call to order people who have political positions. Physics and economics must be applied here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u245	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Piech, right? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u246	I would like to refer to the words of my previous speakers, because there is more politics here than pragmatism. Well, we're talking about hard coal, we're talking about brown coal, but our energy has been based on these fuels for decades. We can't give it up so fast, because we can't replace it. What are we gonna replace this with? What kind of energy are we gonna replace that with? Well, from the sun we have 2 TWh, from the water. .. 2.9. TWh, of biomass TWh, from the wind 15 TWh. It's only 15%. . What's the rest of it? What are we going to make this energy out of? Well, we can't say that. You say that the Western states have no control over energy systems, no control over critical infrastructure. After all, the state is here to keep it all in check so that it can be intervened at any time. This critical infrastructure must be in the hands of the state, as well as in the hands of local authorities, because it is the responsibility of local governments to supply cities with electricity, gas and water and sewage. We can't go on like this, we can't politically play such an important topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u247	Thank you very much. There's no more votes. For the sake of order, I inform you that the senators Alexander Szwed, Halina Bieda, Janusz Gromek, Janusz Pęcherz, Ryszard Świlski, Mariusz Gromko, Wojciech Nealny and Wadi Tyszkiewicz made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, the senators did not make legislative proposals, but the committees made different proposals. I therefore ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the Committee on the Environment and the Extraordinary Commission on Climate Affairs to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 484, and the report of the Commission In print No 484 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Wojciech Necessary, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u248	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present a report to the Health Committee on the Law amending the Law on healthcare services financed by public funds and certain other laws. The committee meeting took place today. The Commission has thoroughly discussed all the articles contained in this amendment of the Act. During the committee's deliberations, Minister Gadomski spoke, which justified certain changes to the Act on the growth of the percentage of GDP allocated to health protection. As follows: this year is increased, the changes are large, larger than previously foreseen, in previous laws. The current growth, according to the Minister, is a major step forward, although the Minister also did not rule out the possibility that this could be revised and that the growth of this percentage of GDP could be further accelerated. Changes in GDP growth have not been consulted either with local governments or with social organisations. This was justified by the lack of time for such consultations and the fact that they are likely to be consulted According to the Ministry, they're not bringing anything. The Legislative Office has raised constitutional objections to 3 articles of the Act, including articles. 2, which assumes that the protection of individuals who carry out vaccinations and tests towards COVID-19 needs to be increased. The Bureau has justified that this protection is already provided by other laws and is sufficient, but it is simply not implemented as it should be, and legislative changes are unnecessary here and would duplicate existing law. As far as the article is concerned. 4, this indicates that the amendments do not comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Court, have not been the subject of consultation and opinion, and therefore this article also has a legal defect for failure to comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. In addition, Article 1 is indicated. 5, where there is a procedural reservation. The time limits in this article actually prevent the President from taking his stand within a constitutional time limit should therefore be amended. A representative of the Polish Towns Association also spoke during the discussion, who confirmed that there was no consultation on this law. There's been a discussion. Of course, we mainly talked about GDP growth, whether this growth is sufficient or not to be faster, about the protection of workers, and precisely that this protection is already sufficient. It is also argued that the amendments to the Article are to be made. 4, i.e. allowing an optional self-government to cover hospital losses, but not in any way obliged to do so, could lead to a situation in which some hospitals may be in such a difficult financial situation that they will be wound up and the local authorities will not be able to cover the losses that will occur. Amendments were tabled and voted on during the discussion. The main amendment concerned an acceleration of 7%. GDP and increase to 7.2% GDP. The second amendment concerned the deletion of Article. 2, i.e. this article, which concerned this new, increased or additional protection of workers, as constitutionally inappropriate. The next amendment proposed deleting the article. 5, i.e. this article, which cannot be formally fulfilled because it does not provide the head of state with the right time to take a stand. There is also one amendment following other amendments. A minority request was also submitted because it did not receive support in the vote. This proposal was intended to delete Article. 4 of the bill under review. At the vote on the amendments, the committee concluded its work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u249	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Health, Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, to present a proposal of the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u250	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour, on behalf of the representatives of the minority's request, to make my argument and ask the High House to vote on this proposal, although there was, unfortunately, one vote missing at the committee's meeting for this proposal to be adopted. High Izbo, a proposal that I will be pleased to present in a moment, has actually become the most important topic of the debate in the Health Committee, although, according to the topic of the meeting, the most important point was GDP growth in relation to health expenditure This growth did not raise much debate, because every increase in health expenditure, especially in the case of collapse that we have in health care at the moment, after COVID, is very valuable. Of course, there was a discussion about the amount and period of implementation of this GDP growth, but this issue was not at issue. The article was more interested. 4, which was introduced during the procession of the law in the Sejm. And as my predecessor has already said, the rule of law has been violated because this area has not been consulted, it has not been consulted and, above all, it has not been the subject of consultation by the government and local government, which is a serious violation of this proposed law. Why is this article so important? That Article does not implement the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which was delivered in November 2019 and which explicitly ruled on the non-constitutionality of the Article. 59 (1) (a) 2 of the Act on Medical Activity, and this provision concerns the financing and regulation of the liabilities of the SPOZ by the founding body, i.e. the local government. The Constitutional Tribunal, the State Constitutional Court, has delivered a judgment to be enforced. This sentence has not been executed for 18 months. The Ministry of Health gave an opinion in which it unambiguously recognised that judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal and, in accepting that judgment, made a clear statement that the judgment would be enforced and therefore no amendments needed to be made to the Law on Medicinal Activities. And this is what happens all of a sudden? There is a project in which the possibility for the local government to finance the loss is included on a voluntary basis: it may not be necessary. This type of record raises many doubts about the implementation of it by local authorities. Self-governments have different financial conditions, some of them will be able to cover it, others will not. The judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal makes it clear that all tasks which are commissioned to medical institutions, which do not result directly from the health benefit financed by the National Health Fund, should be treated as contracted. And every job must have its source of funding. Of course, this is a difficult subject and we agree that the calculation of these costs really poses some difficulties, but that is why the Constitutional Tribunal gave 18 months. The aim was to ensure that the judgment could be carried out in its entirety and possibly in such a way as to amend the Law on Medicinal Activities in order to extract the amounts resulting from the additional tasks imposed on the medicinal user. And not only from tasks, but also from e.g. from inflation, which at the moment is huge and which causes the debt of hospitals to increase as well. Therefore, in the discussion, a very broad discussion, we were very keenly considering what could happen at the moment when this article on voluntary interference of local governments in the financial situation of hospitals will be adopted. And we believe that... the judgment of the Constitutional Court is a clear verdict. There have been no objections to the implementation of this judgment by the Ministry so far, and we are therefore of the opinion that the judgment must be enforced and not attempted to bring any additional provisions, which cannot be carried out in its entirety. We have discussed this issue and tabled an amendment so that an article on this subject, with the word "can', can be deleted. I therefore recommend that the High House adopt such a position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u251	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u252	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have a question for the Senator of the committee. The point is, he's gonna go further on this public service issue. This is, as I understand it, the applause of these appalling and reprehensible situations when there were attacks on the medical staff who carried out vaccinations. I would like to ask that because I did not fully understand whether the committee accepted this deletion. Mr. Senator mentioned that there was an amendment and that it was the Legislative Bureau that raised this thread. And what was the government's position, perhaps the motivation to leave it in the legal act? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u253	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u254	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, an amendment has been introduced in the Law on the eradication of infectious diseases, which provides protection for all persons involved in medical activities, not only doctors, not only nurses, but also co-operating persons. It's been extended. In the past, only doctors, nurses, nurses, paramedics were protected, but this was extended to include more people, actually all those involved in this process, so we believe that duplication of this record is not justified again. The opinion of the Senator of Law and Justice was different, and the Minister, as I recall, did not take a clear view as to whether he agreed with this interpretation or interpretation of the Legislative Office, which indicates the complete need for this recording in the current legal state. Let's just hope it's being filled out, which means that the appropriate authorities should provide adequate protection for these workers, because according to the law, it exists and can be taken in relation to people who are attacking in any way... Let me rephrase that. Protection, which is enshrined in other laws, is wider than what we are proposing now. What we're proposing narrows it down. It says that you can't insult, you can't attack in a different way, etc., and here's a certain narrowing of it. The adoption of this point, this article, would not cause anything, because it cannot be narrowed down, because other legal solutions extend the protection of these people. So that I think that during the discussion, the ministry did not insist on it in such a way that I could answer clearly to the senator. This translation was rather accepted.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u255	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u256	I would ask for some clarification as to what category these people are cooperating with. At the moment, we have various promotional campaigns for vaccinations. Would those persons who participate in this promotion, but are not medical personnel in such a common sense, be subject to... [[They're subject to it...]] If it's a cop or if it's a teacher... Well, he's a public servant. But what if it's a person who doesn't have the status of a public official under other laws, for example. participates in a campaign to promote vaccination? Is she subject to this protection or is she not subject to it? What's the category of people?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u257	Well, let's say that the vaccination promotion campaign may not be subject to this solution, which is contained in the current legislation. Well, that would be very broad by now. The registration shall apply to the persons cooperating, participating in the... So you can say that it covers everyone, but it's actually impossible to describe them all, because we would have to discharge all these people here. I believe that the solutions currently existing... The driver carrying the vaccine also cooperates with the vaccination point, because he is cooperating, so he is protected. Similarly, e.g. a volunteer who indicates which vaccination point to approach It is a collaborating person who helps in the provision of health services. I don't think everyone can be discharged, but it's not necessary, because other laws define it very widely and, as I say, they protect it more. There are more behaviors that are punishable, more types of threats, etc. than in the proposed article, which is quite restrictive, describes, so to speak, such real attacks.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u258	Thank you very much. Senator Beat Małecka-Libera. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u259	Thank you very much. I actually ad vocem what the rapporteur said. I would like to address two sentences to the senator, if I may. Anti-vaccine movements, which are getting bigger right now... The question you're asking here is very valid. I would like to dispel these doubts. It's in the article. The 48th Act on the prevention and control of infectious diseases and infections in humans is said to be entitled to legal protection due to a public officer. They shall receive equal protection, all if they carry out such tasks, in accordance with that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u260	Thank you. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Welcome to Minister Sławomir Gadomski. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u261	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for your voice. I'll be brief. In fact, the foundation of this change is to increase the expenditure on health care. And I welcome this position of the committee, and I welcome this position now, because we have practically no doubt that this path of growth is necessary, that the determination of this increase in expenditure is necessary, is required. We discussed at the committee meeting what should be the ceiling for this growth, at what time. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this decision we set out in the government project is also the result of a certain responsibility for the entire financial system. Those increases we're proposing are still record-breaking. I understand that in any discussion, whether public or political, we can say that we need more, that we still need 0.2%. , still 0.3%, still 0.5% more spending. We've really carefully counted our options. I am referring to those growths that have already taken place, which result from this acceleration in recent years. I'm talking about measures without covid expenditure, I'm talking only about measures that we spend on the health system itself, not including expenditure resulting from pandemics. The expenditure on health protection in 2020 amounts to PLN 107 billion; 2022. According to this plan, which we have shown, this guarantee, this promise, is almost PLN 134 billion, i.e. PLN 27 billion more. That's huge money, that's growth. financing of the health sector by almost 25% over 2 years. This is not a piar play, this is not a showcase. Some cosmetic changes were mentioned at the Health Committee meeting. It's not a cosmetic change, it's a huge change. This is a huge change that shows that health care is a priority. At the committee meeting, I spoke colloquially about the fact that this law is also a tool for the Minister of Health to discuss another discussion with the Minister of Finance, another discussion within the government. I'm holding it up. It's a certain colloquialism, but it's a guarantee, a path to 7%. GDP puts and prioritises the health sector quite differently. This is one of the two sectors of the entire state budget, also considered by the senators, in which this guarantee of increased expenditure, a statutory guarantee. This is only in two areas: the Ministry of National Defence, the Ministry of Health, the expenditure on health protection. These are really tangible measures, tangible money, which I absolutely agree with the president, with the Senator, the health sector is extremely needed, and not only for such standard funding of benefits, increasing accessibility, shortening queues, but also to meet many, many other challenges facing the health sector, the challenges of fighting for medical staff, the challenges of raising salaries, the challenges of innovation in the health sector, development, research, didactics, etc., etc. Not prolonging, but ahead, if your marshal will allow, questions that will probably arise, because the speakers have already spoken about it, I will say that in fact most of the time at the committee meeting I'm sure it's a shame. Well, first of all, let's say the question of judgment and maybe I'll start with that. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I confirm the position of the Ministry of Health, the Minister of Health, our lawyers: in our view, the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal was simple. I don't want to use colloquialism when I say it's realized itself in a way, but I'm going to quote it so that we all know what we're talking about in further discussion. The judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal referred to the fact that one of the articles of the Law on Medical Activity, art. 59 (1) (a) 2, it's unconstitutional. In paragraph II of the judgment, the Constitutional Tribunal ruled that it would expire 18 months later. It's a rule that's been in force since 2016. It's a recipe that the units... well, I was going to say local government units, but in general, the entities that make up. to cover the net loss of SP ZOZs, hospitals. In the event of non-covering this net loss, further decisions had to be taken, including in particular, e.g. a resolution on the liquidation of such an entity. The actual legal situation, which is today, i.e. after the removal from legal trading of this provision, is kind of a return to a situation that was before 2011, when there was no mention of the role of the body creating in addition to losses, or to a state that was in force between 2011 and 2016, when the body creating it was not obliged to cover the losses of hospitals, but if it did not, it should adopt a resolution on the liquidation of such an entity. So to talk today about the fact that these laws can make entities disappear is a complete reversal of what we have had in the legal order for many years. This recipe we're proposing... I agree, he is not fulfilling the judgment of the Constitutional Court, because our position is that the sentence is already fulfilled. What we are aiming at in this provision is to enable these local authorities, those creating bodies, who will want to strengthen these entities financially and cover their losses. I would also like to remind you, at the committee meeting, that, according to today's legal situation, the Minister of Health cannot cover the net losses of the entities he supervises, in particular research institutes. It is an order that has not disturbed anyone and in which we have functioned for a long time. Plus, it's a matter of public servants. The question has already been asked here, so I am in a hurry to answer and I am in a hurry with the government's position on this matter. Ladies and gentlemen, the provision we have proposed as an article. 49a Act on the prevention, control of infections and infectious diseases, and this must be remembered, is the reaction to acts of physical violation of the immunity of persons who participated in the vaccination process. It is also a good thing to look at this provision as a certain general prevention, as for the moment when, colloquially speaking, it became loud about strengthening the role and protection of these people. It should also be noted that since the publication of the information on the work on this solution, we have hardly seen the events that have taken place before. But the recipe was not proposed by us only because of the benefits of general prevention. Let us also look at the issue of certain doubts about this provision that was earlier. This provision applies, as the President rightly pointed out, to other persons taking certain measures to prevent, combat infectious diseases and human infections. This provision is intended to clarify and clearly indicate that we are talking about people involved in the vaccination process, about eliminating interpretations, whether... Mr. Senator was talking about whether the driver driving the vaccine is involved or not. I think there's always some discussion behind this. Second line. This protection that we propose is even further going than in today's legal situation. It's probably more technical than that, but I'm going to say that in today's legal situation, if the violation of immunity has caused the officer's misbehaving, and this is an officer's case, the court can apply an extraordinary relaxation or waive its sentence. There is no such clause in the provision that we propose. That is why we believe that this provision that we are proposing is broader and, in a simple way, more targeted. As for this stage, thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I think there'll be some questions, so...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u262	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Alexander Swed. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u263	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Dear Minister, As far as this amendment is concerned, it is de facto only necessary to thank the government for supporting health care and making this revolutionary change. We see that as soon as there is a postulate, and yet the postulate for 7% GDP appeared in the Polish Lad, it is implemented immediately. I'd like to ask you a question, but I'd rather ask the Minister for a written reply. I would ask for data on the percentage of expenditure on health care since 2016. What percentage were they on the one hand, i.e. the percentage of GDP, and on the other hand the quota from 2016 to today? And what are they according to the forecast that is included in the Act until 2027 inclusive? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u264	Thank you. Minister, will you answer in writing? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Sławomir Gadomski: No. I can answer if...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u265	Mr. Senator, I'll respond quickly and efficiently by rounding these amounts, if you don't mind. The year 2015 is 75 billion. According to our nomenclature, to keep it out of the mix, that's 4.57%. GDP. 2016 is 79 billion, almost 80 billion, about 5 billion more, 4.62% more. In 2017, there was a significant increase, there were over 85 billion, 4.73%. In 2018, there were almost 90 billion, 4.86%. In 2019 there were 97.5 billion, 4.92%. Overshooting 5% took place in 2020. Here was a very large increase, 10 billion years by year, almost 108 billion PLN. In 2021, the planned expenditure on health care is 121 billion... I think we've got a mistake here. It's 5.2%. There should be more. I'll confirm that. The path of entry. The next year is 5,75% GDP, in the present law, is 5.6%. Another year... Here's the acceleration to 6%, 148 billion. We are talking about a very high growth year-to-year in relation to this year. Come on, in order... I may no longer quote amounts, but I will say that in 2027, when we reach these 7% GDP, will be PLN 216 billion. The total ten-year effects of this change are estimated at over 220 billion PLN for the health sector.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u266	Thank you. Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u267	Minister, then I have the following question. In the proposed amendment to the article. 59 paragraph shall be repealed. 2 and 2b. I would like to quote this briefly: if justified by the need to ensure adequate access to healthcare services, the time limit laid down in paragraph 1. Point 2 shall be extended by 24 months. This is the record you're taking out. Because of the general idea of this law, it is understandable. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2b: after the expiry of the period referred to in paragraph. 2a the formation body shall issue a regulation, order or adopt a resolution on the modification of the organisational and legal form or on the liquidation of an independent public health establishment. That's what you're taking out, and you're repealing that rule. You're really shortening the art. 59, all you leave behind is that government, medical schools or someone else has the right to cover their loss. He can cover, he doesn't have to. You don't give any dates, you don't write when, you don't write at what amount, what resources, etc. And it doesn't say what happens if someone doesn't. It's been written down so far. Right? I quoted it here. It was possible to transform the company, eliminate it, etc. Is that intentional? What the Ministry predicts... What happens if the government doesn't cover it because it doesn't have the resources? Nothing is indicated in the bill, and before that it was indicated. You made it clear a little more than a year ago what's going to happen to the hospital if it's not covered by the loss. What's the idea now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u268	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u269	Thank you. Senator, I'm sorry I didn't respond at the Health Committee meeting. You asked me that question, but I'm afraid it's slipped into a mess of questions. I'm in a hurry to answer that. Mr. Senator, it's kind of a legislative technique thing. Where the Constitutional Tribunal has held that Article. 59 (1) (a) 2, i.e., that the creator is obliged within certain time limits, to cover the loss or to take any other action... 2a and 2b were referring precisely to cases concerning what will happen, how it will not act, and today they are in a sense losing sense of functioning in this legal order. Because if we say that there is no longer sanctioning these terms, then we cannot refer to their non-compliance and to a certain mode of action. Of course, the question is what will happen if the local government unit or the building body does not cover this loss, even though today it has the possibility. I will try to answer with my own example, the Minister of Health, who oversees research institutes, where there is exactly the same condition. The Minister for Health, as a constituent body, cannot compensate for the loss of those entities. Yeah, sure. How well do you know and how well the senator knows They are highly reference entities, often the last chance for patients, often those with a really large volume of patients and huge costs. And not all of them. And that's probably true for most of us. They achieve satisfactory financial results, but in their case we are not talking about liquidation, we are talking about the fact that these entities are obliged to carry out certain restructuring processes, to carry out certain debt consolidation processes, to achieve certain results, to prepare certain operating strategies, etc., etc. For the entire catalogue of repair and restructuring activities. To be honest, and perhaps boasting a little bit, I will say that many of our institutes have improved their financial situation in recent years. Even some have come out of loss, make profits, and start repaying debt, which has been increasing for many, many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u270	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Sławomir Gadomski: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Alicia Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u271	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, the High House, the Senate, has received a bill which is unconstitutional not at one point, but at several points. If you look at this law, which has two pages, and at the crushing opinion of the Legislative Bureau, which is on 12 pages, you can see that this is actually enough to say what this law represents. There is no doubt that the fact that there will be more money is to be voted on and introduced. In our opinion, there should be more. As the Minister said, the tailor of the countries as his matter gets hard. Therefore, the increase for the National Health Fund, which will compensate for the debts of hospitals, will be such rather than different. All these increases are positive, but the points that we have eliminated in the amendments have been added to this law. And I ask the High House to vote on this law and the amendments we have made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u272	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u273	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! In fact, it's growing. And five or seven years ago, you would have received a round of applause for what's going on, and now the situation is different, and what's written isn't enough. How much GDP does it take? They're just percentages. It'll take as long as it takes. Perhaps 7.2% It's not gonna be enough, either. But we need to figure something out. We're giving this process a chance to accelerate because it's necessary to accelerate it. The Minister said that TK's sentence to cover hospital losses was a sideline. Once, the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal should not be called a sideline. Two that the hospital troops are disappearing and the hospitals are going to disappear. This is because medical procedures are not properly valued and there is a loss of hospital, which the local authorities will not be able to cover. If we do not change this provision about covering the loss and we do not oblige the state budget to cover the loss to the extent for which the State is responsible by creating laws, imposing certain obligations on hospitals, e.g. increasing the minimum wage or imposing different legal regulations on hospitals that do not increase the contract at the same time do not increase the valuation of medical benefits, this valuation of medical benefits will never occur, never will be realistic. There is a need for such an impulse, and such a record of covering the loss of local government money eliminates the possibility that this valuation will ever be realised. Today we see how the tariff agency works. Minister Niedzielski in Krynica pointed out that it is necessary to value the extracarnet differently. If the CT workers are on strike, will it give a signal that you need to value the head CT test differently? It's not economics or anything. These valuations, as you can see, are carried out as they are conveniently administered at a given time. This is where the losses arise and a change must be made, which will cause the government, that the state, that the budget will start to be responsible for those losses that arise in hospitals at least to the extent that it should be liable. This amendment will now be tabled during the committee's deliberations. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister points out that the situation of hospitals in Poland has improved, and this has improved a lot this year, and that many fewer hospitals are suffering losses. Yeah, because a lot of hospitals had covid wards where you valued the treatment, just like it should be valued, where you raised that valuation. And that's how things got better. Therefore, the situation improves if the valuation of medical benefits is realistic. There's covid money in the system, and that covid money has to stay in the system, even if the epidemic goes away. You don't understand the protest that's happening right now. This protest is also taking place for this reason. The workers have been waiting for decades to increase funding for health care. They were looking forward to it because there was no crisis in the sense of the rulers. There was a crisis situation, money was found. Only that the crisis situation in the Polish health service continues regardless of whether there is a pandemic or not. Pandemic makes it worse. That's why these financial solutions that you've been able to introduce, because there's been a pandemic, you have to leave that money and just leave it in the system. Then the situation will actually improve and those hospitals that fall, those branches that disappear from the map of Polish hospitals, will be saved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u274	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the sake of order, I inform you that the senators Alexander Szwed, Janusz Pęcherz, Mieczysław Golba, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Viktor Durlak, Maciej Łuczak, Mariusz Gromko and Wadi Tyszkiewicz made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would also like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senator Beat Małecka-Libera, Wojciech Kończny, Ryszard Bober and Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Health Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. Now the ads will be read.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u275	Message one. A meeting of the Health Commission on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Law on the amendment of the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws will take place 5 minutes after the announcement of a break in the session in room 182. Message two. The joint meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the examination of requests submitted at the twenty-nineth meeting of the Senate to the Act amending the act on the remuneration of public office managers and certain other acts will take place today 10 minutes after the announcement of the interruptions in rooms 176 and 179. Message three. The joint meeting of the Committee on the Environment, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs will take place 15 minutes after the announcement of a break in room 217. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u276	Thank you very much. Dismissed until 10:00 p.m. After the break, the vote will take place. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 20 minutes 50 to 22 minutes 01]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u277	I'm reopening the session. Please take your seats. We are returning to the examination of item 3 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. A meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy took place during the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 487 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Richard Majer, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u278	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is my pleasure to present a report... [[I'm gonna need your attention now.]] ...Family, Senior and Social Policy Commission on the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. The Commission recommends that the High Senate adopt the proposal set out in the second paragraph, i.e. the law, together with the amendment which was tabled in the course of its deliberations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u279	Thank you very much, senator. Do you still want to speak as senator? I take it you didn't. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and, in the case of rejection of the proposal, on the amendment presented. We are voting on a proposal from the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to adopt a law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'd like to see a remote vote. Please state the results of the vote. 92 senators voted, 8 for, 83 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 3]] In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we proceed to the vote on the proposal for an amendment. The purpose of this amendment is to regulate the date of its entry into force in the Act with the provision of a period of vacathio legis, not retroactively. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 Senators voted, 91 and 2 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 4]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendment adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 5]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We are returning to the fourth item of the agenda... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Would Senator Fedorowicz, with his wonderful stentor voice, please... [[I'm sorry to bother you, but Mr. Ślski was kind enough to bother me...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] It's like elementary school... We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Payment Services Act. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance presented a draft resolution in which it proposed amendments to the Act; Senate printing No 485 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 clarifies that the obligation to honour cash will be excluded in the case of online contracts. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 94 senators voted, 51 votes, 39 against, 4 senators abstained. [[Voting No 6]] By the way, I wonder how on the Internet cash... But... Amendment 2 corrects the wrong coherence. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, 54 for, 37 against, 2 senators abstained. [[Voting No 7]] Amendment 3 correlates the provision with other similar provisions in the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? One Senator from the remote... Please check the signal. Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 52 for, 42 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 8]] Amendment 4 extends the vacathio legis law to 3 months. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 50 for, 44 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 9]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 94 for, 0 against, 1 for the senator abstained. [[Voting No 10]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Payment Services Act. We return to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the remuneration of persons holding government positions and certain other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, which responded to the proposals presented during the debate, prepared a joint report on the matter, took place at the end of the meeting. It is available in print No 483 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u280	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Committees... [[Voice from the room: Can't hear.]] [[I can hear you now.]] Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The joint committees recommend the adoption of amendments 1, 2, 4, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17 and do not recommend the adoption of the others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u281	Thank you very much, senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would like to remind you that the conclusions were made during the discussion: Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, Senator Victor Durlak, Senator Marek Borowski, Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka and Senator Wojciech Konieczny. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 deletes the questionable interpretation amendments made to the Law on the remuneration of managers of state positions concerning the annual valorisation of the basic amount. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 51 votes 42 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 11]] Attention, amendments 2, 4, 10, 11, 13 and 17 must be voted together and their adoption will rule out voting on amendments 3, 5, 6, 7 and 8. These amendments repeal the amendments which were made during the parliamentary work in breach of Article. Article 119 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted against, 3 against, 52 against, 40 abstentions. [[Voting No 12]] We are therefore voting on Amendments 3, 5, 6, 7 and 8, which should be voted on together. They aim to exclude persons entitled to social and health insurance from the circle of persons other than the President's spouse. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 43 for, 50 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 13]] Attention, amendments 9 and 14... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Don't have a dialogue, there's a vote at the moment. Amendments 9 and 14 should be voted on together. Amendments 9 and 14 clarify the provision setting out the minimum remuneration of the local staff employed on the basis of the selection, prejudicing that the minimum remuneration shall be determined in relation to the maximum remuneration in the position referred to in the Regulation issued pursuant to Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 94 were in favour, no one was against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 14]] Note, Amendment 12 deletes unnecessary provisions temporarily retaining implementing acts which will not lose effect. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, 49 were in favour, 43 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 15]] Attention, amendments 15 and 16 should be voted on together. These amendments aim to increase the remuneration of the President of the Republic of Poland from the next presidential term. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 46 votes against, 47 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 16]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 90 senators voted, 61 for, 27 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 17]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the remuneration of persons holding government positions and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and some other laws. The meeting of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment took place at the end of the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is available in print No 486 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to submit a report to the committee. And the honorable pleno titulo senators, please concentrate.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u282	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! National Economy and Innovation Report, Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs and Environment. Six amendments were examined at today's committee meeting. Amendments 1, 2, 3, 5 and 6 received a majority of 25 senators voted in favour, no one opposed. Amendment 4... 13 senators voted in favour of Amendment 4, 11 against, and no one abstained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u283	Thank you very much, senator. Would the other Senator rapporteur, Senator Janusz Błucherz, like to speak again? [[No.]] Thank you very much. Senator Bladder was also the rapporteur of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 seeks to use the proposed provision in the correct definition of the renewable energy prosumer. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 18]] Amendment 2 seeks to use in the proposed provision the correct definition of the distribution system operator. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 19]] Amendment 3 seeks to maintain the terminology of the proposed provision with the other provisions of the amended law in the way in which it is addressed within the scope of the contract. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 Senators voted, 95 in favour, no one against, one Senator abstained. [[Voting No 20]] Amendment 4 aims to eliminate the provision which, among the objects which are active in electricity generation, places a certain group of capital companies in a privileged position. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 50 for, 44 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 21]] Amendment 5 seeks to maintain the terminology of the proposed provision with the provisions of the revised Renewable Energy Act in the way it is referred to the manufacturer's scope of regulation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 22]] Amendment 6 aims to abolish a provision which, contrary to the principles of correct legislation and the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal, retains the existing implementing act in force. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 23]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 24]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and some other laws. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. A meeting of the Health Committee took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 484 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Wojciech Necessary, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u284	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen. During the break, a meeting of the Health Committee was held, which discussed amendments to the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws. In the course of the debate, Amendment 1 obtained a majority, Amendment 2 obtained a majority, Amendment 3 was withdrawn and was therefore put to the vote by Amendment 4, which received a majority of 5 votes in favour, 3 votes against, Amendments 5 and 6 received a majority. The committee was adjourned at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-09-senat-29-1.u285	Thank you very much, senator. Do the senators still want to speak? I would like to remind you that the conclusions were made during the discussion: Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, Senator Wojciech Nealny, Senator Ryszard Bober and Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. I would like to remind you that a minority of the Health Commission withdrew its request for point 3 in print No 484 Z. Does any of your senators wish to uphold the withdrawn request? I don't see any volunteers. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 aims to increase the minimum financial resources allocated annually to health finance, including the target of the minimum appropriations in 2025. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 52 for, 43 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 25]] Amendment 2 seeks to delete the criminal provision added to the text of the Act at the seym legislative stage after the first reading of the project. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 52 for, 43 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 26]] Amendment 3 is an amendment withdrawn. Amendment 4 seeks to amend the article amending the Law on Medicinal Activities in order to comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal on the compensation of the net loss of an independent public health establishment by an entity forming a local government unit. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 51 votes for, 44 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 27]] Attention, amendments 5 and 6 should be voted on together. These amendments seek to delete the rules which extend until 30 June 2022 the existing lists of healthcare providers qualified to the different levels of the basic system of hospital health care insurance for the area of the voivodship concerned. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 51 votes for, 44 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 28]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 29]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. That concludes today's session. I'm calling for a recess by 10:00 tomorrow. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 22 minutes 30]]
