ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-10-senat-29-2.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. I'm reopening the session. I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held both in a traditional manner and using means of distance communication. The senators in the Senate building! Please check whether you all have disabled applications for remote participation in the meeting. On the other hand, the senators taking part in the sitting remotely inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If you have any problems, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators currently attending the sitting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We're giving you another 30 seconds. Please state the results of the vote. 69 senators voted and so many are currently taking part in the sitting, but as you can see, every second they arrive. I would remind you that if legislative proposals are not tabled, then the vote on items 8 and 9 of the agenda will take place immediately after their consideration. I will also say that immediately after the examination of the ninth paragraph, including the second reading of the draft resolution in honor of the outstanding independent activist, publisher and policy of Victor Kulerski, a half-hour break in the proceedings will be announced, during which the exhibition will be opened. Patriotism enchanted in fonts. We will proceed to senators' statements after the opening of the exhibition. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, may I have a moment of focus, please? The President of the Council of Ministers sent to the Marshals of the Sejm a draft bill on compensation for certain entities engaged in economic activities in areas covered by the exceptional condition. This project was brought in as an emergency. If the Sejm adopts this law next week, it will be necessary to convene an additional Senate meeting. You will be notified by electronic means of the date and order of this meeting. In addition, yesterday, the Seniors' Convention gave a positive opinion on a change in the date of the meeting planned at the beginning of October. This meeting will take place on 7 and 8 October, not, as previously planned, 6 and 7 October. There's a one-day shift here. That's all the news. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution in connection with the beatification of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński, the Primate of the Millennium. I would like to welcome the guests present at the meeting, our colleague, Senator Czesław Ryszka... [[Applause]] ...Miss Michalina Jankowska, Director of the Primate Institute Stefan Cardinal Wyszyński... [[Applause]] ...and Mrs Agnieszka Kolodyńska, responsible general for the Institute of Primate Wyszyński. [[Applause]] Let me remind you that the project was brought in by a group of senators. The project is included in print No 480 and the report is published in print No 480 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-10-senat-29-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! I have the honour to present to you on behalf of the Legislative Commission the text of the resolution in connection with the beatification of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński, the Primate of the Millennium. In order to show the greatness of the figure of the Primate of the Millennium, it is necessary to recall the words of John Paul II addressed to Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński at the meeting with Poles the next day after the inauguration of the pontificate, on 23 October 1978: "Your heroic hope would not be on the Capital of Peter of this Polish Pope, if there were no Jasna Góra and this entire period of history of the Church in our Homeland, which is connected with your bishop and Primate ministry. These words are, in effect, the key to understanding both the person and the providence role of the Great Primate in the postwar history of the Church in Poland, a bishop who placed in his coat the words of trusting and offering everything to God himself by Mary (Sola Deo per Mariam). Born in Zuzela, on the border of Podlasie and Mazowsze, in 1901. Stefan Wyszyński came from a Podlasie nobility. His personality development was influenced by the atmosphere of deep religiousism in his home, as well as by the great fever of independence, which was also felt at school. It was then, as a nine-year-old boy, a teacher who, for speaking Polish, punished children, leaving them without lunch at school, said that he would not come back here again. The father showed understanding for his son, and after a while of schooling at home, he transferred him to their secondary school. W. Górskiego w Warszawie. In 1920. Young Stefan Wyszyński joined the Higher Seminary in Włocławek. He was ordained priestly in 1924. He worked first as a vicar at the Włocławska Cathedral, at the same time as an editor of the diocesan diocesan journal Kujawskie, he also served as a prefect in the factory school Celulozy. After a year he was sent to the Faculty of Canon Law at the Catholic University of Lublin and joined the Faculty of Economic and Social Sciences. In 1929 he defended his doctorate on the basis of the work of the family, the Church and the state to school. He lectured in social economics and sociology in a seminary, and in 1932 he became the editor-in-chief of the Priest's Ateneum. In addition, he ran the Christian Labour University, was active in the Christian trade unions. These were years of economic crisis, so the future Primate paid much attention to solving social problems. In 1937, Cardinal August Hlond appointed him a member of the Social Council at the Primas of Poland. After the outbreak of World War II, Fr. Stefan Wyszyński was wanted by the Gestapo, fortunately unsuccessfully. He assisted in the Department for the Darkened in Laska, and during the Warsaw Uprising he was a chaplain of the AK Branch of the Military District of Żoliborz, wearing the nickname Radwan III. In February 1945 he returned to Włocławek and organized a seminary. In addition to holding the office of the rector of the seminary, Professor Wyszyński edited the diocesan writing of God's Word, conducted the pastoral ministry of young people, preached and confessed a lot. Soon all of Włocławek spoke about his full dedication to the service. On 4 March 1946 Pope Pius XII was elected Fr. Stefan Wyszynski to the bishop's dignity, entrusting him with the management of the Lublin diocese. He received the Bishop's Sacra on 12 May 1946 at Jasna Góra at the hands of Cardinal August Hlond. On 22 October 1948 Cardinal Hlond, the Primate of Poland, died. By decision of Pope Pius XII, Bishop Wyszyński took over the management of the archdiocese of Warsaw and Gniezno, and at the same time took over the office of Primate of Poland. At that time the gloomy and tragic Stalinist era lasted. On the agenda were persecution, violence, rape and injustice, which the Primate, as helmsman of the Polish Church, had to face. He was in favour of consent, but never a settlement, as evidenced by the agreement signed in 1950 with the Government of the Polish People's Republic. Unfortunately, instead of the expected silence of the fight against the Church on 20 January 1951, Bishop Czesław Kaczmark of Kielce was arrested, who was subjected to a shameful trial for conducting an agental activity for the United States and the Vatican. Many historians present the view that the Kielce curia was to be a preponderance for the Primate himself. 29 November 1952 The Primate found himself on the list of newly appointed cardinals announced in the Vatican. The authorities did not issue a passport to the Primate so that he could collect a Cardinal's hat in Rome in January 1953. The decree of the Council of State dated 9 February 1953 to fill the positions of clergymen, according to which every nomination in the Church, even the transfer of the Vicar to another institution, was to be agreed with the state authority. Cardinal Wyszynski remains the only answer: Non possumus! We can't let that happen! The relentless Primate on 25 September 1953 was imprisoned by the communists for 3 years. It was placed first in the deserted capuchin monastery in Rywałd near Grudziąd, then in Stochek Warmiński, then in Prudnik in Opole and Komańczy in Bieszczady. In prison the Primate developed a great program of Jasna Góra Weddings, preparing the Nation for the celebration of the Millennium of Polish Baptism. On 3 May 1957 the Great Novena began, and in August of that year The journey of a copy of the Wonderful Picture of Our Lady of Jasna Gora in all Polish parishes. In order to give in her arms everything that Poland represents. The millennia celebrations were a great triumph of the Church and the Nation, a forerunner of the coming freedom. Happily, Father Primate lived to see the fruits of his work on freedom. Two years before his death he welcomed Peter of our time, the Polish Pope, and a year later he advised the emerging movement of Solidarity, how to develop external, political and economic freedom in order to feel free internally. He spoke prophetically in his sermon to the veterans on January 24, 1981: "Times that go will demand from us new moral, spiritual, social, professional powers, as well as a high level of native, native culture, which will be food for those who come for us. The nation is not dying, but we are exchanging, and the nation is continuing. That is why it is not enough to wait today. You need to review your conscience, your national and your home life. We need to ask ourselves how youth education is going, what these young people actually have from us and what they can learn from our experiences. The Senate of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to the great husband of the state, which was Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński, the great Pole who entered Poland with his rich life and prophetic vision. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, so much for the resolution. If you have any questions about the course of the committee meeting, I will be happy to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-10-senat-29-2.u3	Thank you, Senator. Currently, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of applicants in one person, because Senator Czerwiński is, so to speak, in two persons. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Alexander Swed was the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-10-senat-29-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! The Primate of the Millennium, Cardinal. Stefan Wyszyński signed up on the pages of Poland's history as an outstanding, unique clergyman, as a shepherd bearing the light of the faithful, the glory of our nation. For this great man of state gave men hope, and the knowledge which he possessed and carried is promoted in generations to this day. Let me remind you of some timeless thoughts, which I already mentioned in part during the establishment of 2021 Cardinal Wyszyński. Remember, the new Poland cannot be Polish without God's children! Polish infertility or murdering new life mothers! Polish people of unbelief, without God's love! It cannot be the Homeland of people without mutual reverence for one another, without the spirit of sacrifice and service, without the ability to share the fruits of work with those who themselves are unable to earn a living and maintain. Thus the primate of the millennium cardinal. Stefan Wyszyński described Poland's vision in the future in Kobyłka on 8 September 1970 Poland based on Christian tradition, Poland based on family. 6 years later, he stressed: "The nation in which the family was distributed is disappearing. There is a biological relationship and a relationship between family and nation. The nation is a protection for the family and vice versa. In difficult times of national existence, when we did not have political freedom, the nation with all its values protected itself in the privacy and discretion of family life. I remember, when I was a little boy, I studied in the home of Polish history on 24 pictures that my father pulled out of hiding. We read this book during long winter evenings. How many of those days have fallen into my soul to this day. The nation must recognise the rights of the family and, in particular, the right to its sustainability. And none of this can be done, because he would have harmed himself. In the service of the family must be all the work of the nation His language, history, customs and traditions. The warm love for Poland was an integral part of the teaching of the Primate. He said: "For us after God the greatest love is Poland! After God we must remain faithful above all to our homeland and national Polish culture. We're gonna love all the people in the world, but it's okay to love. So after God, after Jesus Christ and Our Lady, all over God's way, our love belongs primarily to our homeland, speech, history and culture, from which we grow on Polish soil. And even if there are various calls to the love of all peoples and nations on the banners, we will not be opposed to it, but we will demand that we live above all the spirit, history, culture and speech of our Polish land, developed for centuries by the life of our forefathers. So he did not agree with the frequent deception of the history of our homeland, which unfortunately took place in the times of communism, and often also today. In 1964 he said: "Today we often meet with the phenomenon of spitting on our own nest. People, especially not very educated, are shaking from our historical past, underestimating the great sacrifice, every drop of blood poured out for the nation or every drop of sweat from the farmer's forehead that soaked into the land of his mother. All this indicates a great need to call for respect for national history, for the efforts of generations that have passed away, for their sacrificial blood poured out in uprisings, in the struggle for freedom of their homeland on all continents or in the last Warsaw Uprising. Although many of these rumbles were unsuccessful, we owe them the fact that our nation was reminded of our international conscience. Their work, labor, and sacrificial devotion resulted in such a result that we are now. The Primate constantly and steadfastly warned Catholics against secularization, against the disappearance of Christian and civic attitudes, the neglect of personal, family, domestic, social, professional duties. Cardinal Wyszyński claimed that the condition of social, cultural and economic rebirth is a moral rebirth, which the Church should care for as an educator and creator of these attitudes, all the more so because the communist government, in the name of erroneous ideological assumptions, in many areas of social life, destroyed positive patterns of conduct. He made it easier for the nation to do so by moving away from Christian values. In his speech in 1978, the Primate said: "If the moral level of our lives does not rise, if we do not eradicate many of our faults, we can bring to ruin not only state life but also national life. The demoralization of personal, family and professional life can lead to the destruction of our native and national culture. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we will adopt a resolution in the High Chamber in connection with the beatification of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński, the Primate of the Millennium. At the meeting of the Legislative Commission, many senators questioned this draft resolution due to the earlier establishment of 2021 the Year of the Primate of the Millennium Stefan Cardinal Wyszyński. But I think we're talking about an outstanding person. I thank Senator Jerzy Czerwiński for initiating this draft resolution. I am proud that as Senate of the Republic of Poland we again pay tribute to such a great person, but also to her timeless teachings. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-10-senat-29-2.u5	Thank you very much, Senator, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-10-senat-29-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Honourable guests! Stefan Cardinal Wyszyński is one of the most outstanding Poles in our history. He expressed it very clearly in St. John Paul II, speaking of how great his ministry was, how great his work was. What else? As a participant in the funeral of Cardinal Wyszyński, 40 years ago I saw that there was such a banner: "Such a Primate God gives Poland once every thousand years. And I think what was expressed in this inscription reflected in a quick and very meaningful way the size of Primate Wyszyński. I'm gonna call this funeral because this funeral, although as a natural celebration of my own, because we were saying goodbye to the great Pole... We said goodbye to the great Pole, in a situation of great uncertainty in the country. It was May 1981. It was also a situation where we were just devastated by information about the assassination of St. John Paul II. This assassination, as you know, took place on May 13th. And it was not entirely clear that at this very difficult moment two outstanding Poles would not go to the Father's house. He expressed it very well cardinal. Macharski, who said that at that time the heart of Poles was torn between Warsaw and Rome. And that's actually the atmosphere. When the Primate died, thousands came to Warsaw, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people. These funerals lasted from May 28 to May 31. Moreover, even the communist authorities, which all their existence in the times of the Polish People's Republic focused on fighting the Primate, posthumously recognized its size. The funeral was attended by a delegation nominally representing the highest party authorities of the time, and above all state authorities. There was a television relationship, direct transmission in Polish Television and Polish Radio. In fact, it was a royal funeral. It has often been used in relation to the primate of the phrase "interrex." Interrex was an institution from the time of the First Republic, when during the period of the reignless primate of Poland, as the first senator of the Republic of Poland, he served as regent of the state. It was included in the state law of that time. And Primate Wyszynski at a time when there was no democratic power, when there was communism in Poland, was treated by the vast majority of Poles as such, as not only cardinal, metropolitan, religious leader, but also as a huge moral and social authority. And his words, his words, played an extremely important role. You could talk a long time about the merit of the Primate here. However, I would like to recall one fact that is missing in this whole discussion. The regulation of the status of the Church in the northern and southern lands... The Primate was well aware of the importance of this matter for the Church in Poland and the Polish state. It wasn't just about the Gorzow administration. Because then the church provinces... It was a temporary Gorzow administration which included the then Szczecin, Zielona Góra and Koszalin Voivodship, i.e. more than 10% Polish. This case was included in a hot and very complex legal and political conglomerate of problems, because normalization was settled on many floors. The relationship between the State and the Church, between the State and the Holy See, between the Church in Poland and the Church in Germany, between the Episcopate of Poland and the Holy See, between the Polish People's Republic and the Federal Republic of Germany, was very important to her. A lot also depended on political configurations in Germany itself. The Cold War and the relations between the Warsaw Pact and the North Atlantic Pact were on the top of all of this. Humanly speaking, making changes seemed extremely difficult. And in this context a landmark was the letter of Polish bishops to German bishops from 1965, containing famous words: "Forgive and ask forgiveness." For this letter the Primate was criticized even in Catholic environments, where the memory of World War II was fresh. It was 20 years after World War II. There were many people who knew exactly what the drama of World War II was about, what the Germans did to Poles and not only Poles, it was all well known. Hence, not only was the political chase led by the political authorities at that time to the primate, who betrayed that he wrote such a letter, and with a snack it was also spoken about in Catholic environments. It is one of his fundamental merits, but such merit could be mentioned more, because it was also the ability to dialogue with the communist authorities... The church in Poland did not go on the path of cardinal. Mindszenty, did not take the way of other churches in countries so-called. Folk democracy, which has been vassaled by the authorities or significantly reduced their ability to act. The Church in Poland went its own way thanks to far-reachingness, wisdom and realism, including political, cardinal. Wyszynski. I am also talking about this in order to address this part of the Senate hall, which has doubts about the support of this resolution. Cardinal Wyszyński is a great figure not only for believers, it is a great figure for Poland, regardless of whether someone is a believer or is not a believer, what his attitude towards the Catholic Church is. And for this reason this event is unprecedented, that in the hundred twenty years of his birthday, and at the same time in the forty years of his death, in 2 days, will take place in Warsaw, under difficult conditions of pandemic, the beatification of the Primate of the Millennium, a steadfast cardinal. I trust the High House will take this resolution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-10-senat-29-2.u7	Thank you very much, senator. Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-10-senat-29-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It seems that it is necessary to speak about it with seriousness and with gentleness, because the beatification, by nature, does not concern national merit or public merit, but is an act of the Church, and this is the duty of us to maintain special sensitivity. The Primate is not blessed because of national merit, but because of the decision to prove his holiness. To tell you the truth, if we were to adopt a resolution on the eve of beatification, it would be a big mistake to forget that together with Primate Wyszyński will be the beatified mother of Chack, with whom the primate cooperated, the creator of Lasek, one of the most beautiful works that Catholic culture has given recently. This is a huge incompetence that we can't fix anymore, but let's remember that this is a beatification of 2 people, not one. Since we are talking about the national merits and the merit of the state priest Primate, it seems to me that in this context it is worth to refer to the dialogue between the Lord God and one of the painters whom the Lord God said: don't paint me on your knees, you paint me well. The greatest damage we can cause to the memory of this man, who will surely register in the history of Poland as a key statesman after the generation of Piłsudski and Dmowski, because I have no doubt about it, is... It is worth recalling that it was a figure with a very original and expressive vision of Polish patriotism, which had nothing to do with radicalism. What the archbishop of Jędraszewski said, that the Catholic Church in Poland is a continuation of the work of the Cursed Soldiers, the underground of the armed forces in the 1940s, is an obvious untruth. The church survived, protected national independence through a completely different strategy, thanks to a strategy of attachment to fundamental values and political realism. It was a completely different strategy. It wasn't an inspection strategy. This is why we did not share the fate of the Hungarian Church. This is why in Poland there were grounds for organizing a very broad opposition, independence and democratic movement. If the Church had not chosen this strategy, our history would have been completely different. And it was a strategy that sometimes led to very harsh disputes with the Vatican. I will remind you that Rome did not agree with the agreement of 1951, and then Primate Wyszyński was in a very acute dispute with Vatican diplomacy, which in the 1970s was ready to establish diplomatic relations with the Polish People's Republic at the expense of the sovereignty of the Catholic Church in Poland. It was only the election of John Paul II as Peter's capital that put an end to this danger. And in my opinion, from the point of view of the young generation, this independence, the originality of its concept, is much more interesting than the repetition of clichés, because this makes us an independent society that did not produce any democratic micro-opposition, but an opposition that could have a huge socio-cultural basis. Finally, two more points. The Primate was a singer of national culture, but at the same time a very sharp critic of national flaws, omissions at work, reliability. It was a school of liberating the nation, calling to overcome its own flaws. It wasn't icing, it wasn't saying: we're special, we're better than everyone else, we're supposed to enjoy our uniqueness. It was a school of very deep social realism. The Primate was an advocate of demanding patriotism, not having his own uniqueness or advantage over other nations. He had a sense of Polish mission, it is clear, but at the same time he was someone who demanded a lot from his society. And finally, he didn't divide the nation. Vision... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Jurek, if you want, say something interesting. It's just an interesting... The vision of a nation in which most angels are honest confronting communists supported by a small minority of society was not a vision of the primate. The Primate's vision was a vision of realism, the awareness that there were different attitudes, it was a vision of bringing society together, not sharing society. And I would very much like the beatification of priest Primate Wyszyński not to be the subject of political propaganda, because we will certainly harm... He wouldn't want it, but we're gonna hurt the young generations, too. Because the young generation doesn't want propaganda that we often hear on TV under Jack Kurski's baton. He wants an interesting story about an exceptionally valuable man, undoubtedly a statesman, a Polish statesman of the 20th century. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-10-senat-29-2.u9	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-10-senat-29-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! It's more of a summary... I would like to thank you very warmly for these votes, for the facts that have been given here, for the discussion, both in the plenary room and in the committee, and personally I would like to thank Mr Czesław Ryszka, the senator, an expert on the life story of the Primate, a Catholic publicist. Thank you again for helping me edit my text. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-10-senat-29-2.u11	Thank you very much. For the record, Senators Ewa Gawada, Mariusz Gromko and Ryszard Majer made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in connection with the beatification of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński, the Primate of the Millennium. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 73 for, 6 against, 6 senators abstained. [[Voting No 30]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution in connection with the beatification of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński, the Primate of the Millennium. You asked Senator Czesław Ryszka to allow a brief statement on behalf of the applicants. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-10-senat-29-2.u12	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for adopting this resolution, which is so spiritually enriching us before the Sunday beatification of the great Primate of the Millennium. I must add that I am the author of this resolution at the request of Senator Czerwiński. I don't want to go into the biography of the Primate of the Millennium anymore, but I'll say that as Silesian I'm a little short of indicating here the third hierarch, who, you know, started this church career of Primate Wyszyński. Namely the great Primate of the Second Republic of Poland Cardinal August Hlond in 1937 appointed a young priest Dr Stefan Wyszyński from Włocławek as secretary of the then established social council. In 1946 he consecrated priest Wyszyński to Bishop Lublin, and dying in unexplained circumstances until today. I'm just going to say that he went to the hospital for surgery of the blind gut, and two weeks later, he was carried out dead, and he said important words. During these years of communism, the fight against the Church said to his collaborators: courage, do not be afraid, work, victory when it comes, will come through Mary. And he also said: "My successor is Bishop Wyszyński. And here I would like to refer to those words that Senator Czerwiński started. John Paul II said: this pope would not have been a Pole if it had not been for your faith, courage and all this connection of the Church with Our Lady of Jasna Gora. And just the next day, on October 23rd, Primate Wyszyński, meeting with Poles, ended his speech with such words: we report to you, the great Primate of the Second Republic, Cardinal Hlond, that the victory which you announced came today. These are a few interesting things for this image by Primate Wyszynski, but at the same time card. Hlonda, who as if it had started this great three great people of the Polish Church: cardinal. Hlond, card. Wyszyński, card. Wojtyła. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-10-senat-29-2.u13	Thank you. Thank you very much, senator. We begin to consider item 9 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution in honor of the outstanding independent activist, publisher and politician Victor Kulerski. I would like to welcome many guests, but allow me to mention, first of all, Mr. Piotr Kulerski, great-grandson of Victor Kulerski... [[Applause]] ...and allow me to welcome Mr Maciej Glamowski, President Grudziądz and other guests. [[Applause]] I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 463, and the report in print No 463 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jan Filip Libicki, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-10-senat-29-2.u14	Thank you very much. Allow me, Mr. Marshal, to speak from the outset, because my report will not be long. On 8 September, the Legislative Commission discussed, in addition to the fact that the resolution on Wyszyński's primacy was also a resolution in honor of a prominent independent activist, publisher and politician Victor Kulerski, a person particularly deserving of Grudziądz and this land, who is here today represented by guests. I am the rapporteur for purely technical reasons, because the initiators of this resolution, especially Senator Ryszard Bober, but also Senator Kazimierz Klein, could not be its rapporteurs for regulatory reasons. They are its creators and initiators, so I will only allow myself, in fulfilling this technical role, to read this resolution. I would add that it was adopted unanimously by the Legislative Commission, so I think it will be the same in the plenary room. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland in honor of a prominent independent activist, publisher and politician of Viktor Kulerski. Victor Kulerski is an extraordinary character. Inextricably linked to Grudziądz and Pomerania, he has made his mark in history as an uncompromising advocate of Poland's idea of regaining independence and restoring strong statehood. The universal respect given to it by readers of his publications, especially the Grudziądzka newspaper, and the creative energy characterizing him, has made him permanently inscribed in the pantheon of people who were highly deserved for Pomerania and the whole country. He was born in 1865 in Grucie near Grudziądz. His mother was German, and the father was Germanized Pole who came from a peasant family. Already at school in the young Victor, Polish national sense woke up under the influence of reading, teacher of the Pole and mother, despite the dislike of the father. He attended Prussian schools in Radzyń Chełmiński, Lubawa and was then admitted to the Royal Catholic Teacher Seminary in Grudziądz. However, he was expelled from it by the Prussian authorities in 1883 for attending the 200th anniversary of the Vienna service. In 1887, after a sentence of an external exam, he became a teacher. During the time of increased Germanization, the Prussian authorities effectively reduced Victor Kulerski's professional activity, and he was not allowed to pursue the profession of teacher in schools where Polish children attended. This forced him to abandon this profession in the end, although he felt that he was a teacher for the rest of his life. In the early '90s. After his marriage to Józef of Kolski, he founded the guest house of Poland, one of the first resorts in the fashionable Sopot at the time, intended for Polish clients. This year's number is 130. The anniversary of Wiktor Kulerski's stay in Berlin, where under the pseudonym Victor Radzyński took the first steps in journalism, cooperating with the editorship of the popular Polish newspaper in Berlin. He also took an active part in the political life there, being president of the Polish Industrialists' Society in Berlin for some time. In the spring of 1892, he returned to Sopot with the intention of setting up his own publishing house. During this time he actively cooperated with the first Polish press project in Gdańsk. With Gdansk Gazeta. His dream of setting up his own publishing company was realized in October 1894, together with the release of the first issue of the "Gazeta Grudziądzka." At a later time, his graphics companies published a number of books, magazines and commemorative prints, but the publisher's life was created by the "Gazeta Grudziądzka," whose circulation steadily increased and reached the number of permanent subscribers of almost 130 thousand, which made the "Gazeta Grudziądzka" the largest Polish-speaking publishing house in the world. Wiktor Kulerski's popularity among the Polish society of Prussian lands brought him the nickname of the people, because he defended the rights of Poles against the Germanizational actions of the assassin. The Prussian authorities repeatedly gave Kulerski, for his pro-Polish activities, the trials which resulted in him spending almost a year and a half in prison. Publishing and political activities, in which he became a advocate and defender of the wide masses of Polish people, allowed him to obtain a mandate for the German Reich's parliament. This function was carried out in the years 1903 and 1911. As a Member, he has already actively supported child strikes in Kaszuba and Pomerania in defending Polish language. Before the outbreak of World War I, he settled in Owczarki near Grudziąg and built modern graphics plants in Tuszewo. In 1912 he founded the Catholic-Polish People's Party, proclaiming the slogans of national solidarity and political emancipation and defending the rights of the Polish population under Prussian rule. At the same time, he has performed various functions in many Polish organizations, created networks of folk associations, co-created nests, promoted national culture, tradition and history among the broad masses of Polish society. During World War I he was a advocate of reconstruction of Polish statehood and a supporter of activism and creation of facts made, even in tactical cooperation with central countries. After the defeat of Germany, he headed the Grudziądz People's Council and was also a representative of the Polish government in the International Border Commission, setting the north-western borders of the Republic of Poland. After Poland regained independence, it continued to devote itself to publishing and political activities. He co-founded regional structures of the folk movement, actively supporting Wincenty Witos' policy. From 1928 to 1935 he was in the Senate of the Republic of Poland. He defended democratic principles, warned against the German threat and the Bolshevik revolution. The future of Poland saw in strengthening its economic potential, sticking to the principles of political pluralism, including, above all, freedom of speech and Christian traditions. In 1931, i.e. 90 years ago, he gave two significant speeches in the Senate, among which was the publication of the brochures in the same year, by the welfare of the people. To the prosperity of Poland. Adored by voters, hated by political opponents, he was faithful to the ideals of democracy and emancipation until the very end. Victor Kulerski died suddenly in his home in the Shepherds on September 18, 1935. He was buried in a Catholic cemetery in Grudziądz. The day of his funeral was the day of grief in Grudziądz, and the very day of his funeral A multi-thousandth patriotic manifestation. From the widely written obituary it is worth to quote the words: "I beat suddenly, completely unexpectedly, the tired heart of the Great Pole. For no one, even the greatest of his enemies, can claim that the heart is asleep. Victor Kulerski did not beat for Poland and only for Poland. The Senate of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to Victor Kulerski, a prominent socialist, publisher, politician and above all a patriot. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-10-senat-29-2.u15	Thank you very much, senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants, who is Senator Ryszard Bober. Would any of you like to ask such a question? No. If not, I'm opening the discussion. Senator Richard Bober is speaking.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-10-senat-29-2.u16	My heart rejoices that today we can process drafts of these resolutions, because both people to whom we dedicate resolutions are connected with Kujawy and Pomerania. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear Invited Guests! Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, we dedicate these resolutions to outstanding Poles. Viktor Kulerski is connected with the land of Grudziądz, where his activities were conducted. But it didn't stop there, because the gleaning was passed on to the next generation, who are still trying to carry Victor Kulerski's legacy today and are actively trying to participate in the development of all the ideas that Victor Kulerski preached. I would like to thank the Marshal very warmly for the motion for a resolution. I thank the Committee on Culture, Madam President, that we will be able to open a beautiful exhibition dedicated to this outstanding Pole in a moment. I thank Piotr Kulerski, great-grandson of Viktor Kulerski, for being with us and participating in this great event that we have prepared together with Senator Kazimierz Kleina. On 3 September, there was a conference starting with a series of all these events in which you attended the Senate Marshal, but most of all, they were attended by the youth of the Georgian schools, because we want to pass this legacy on to young people. Victor Kulerski, an outstanding person, a great Pole and really authority for those young people who, I hope, after this conference, in which so many participated... I hope that this discussion will be moved to schools, to classrooms, and that this patriotism that he presented, and this spirit will be promoted among these young people. I ask the High Senate to accept the draft resolution submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-10-senat-29-2.u17	Thank you very much. Senator Rafał the locksmith will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-10-senat-29-2.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Thank you very much to the author of the initiative. I'll admit I didn't know the character, and when I saw the resolution, I started reading. I read that for several decades he wrote editorials to the Grudziądzka newspaper. Thanks to the Internet, we can read the archive numbers. While considering the reason why this Pole needs to be worshiped, I found an explanation in the motta of Grudziądzka, presented also at the exhibition you will see. Well, on every issue for several decades. just under the heading it was written: "In the name of God! To Faith and Homeland! Praised be Jesus Christ. As a son That's how I feel. Primate Wyszynski, I cannot support the resolution on such a form. I ask the Senate to stand unanimously for this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-10-senat-29-2.u19	Thank you very much. I encourage the senators to study the 1931 Senate transcripts. - They're... In particular, Victor Kulerski insisted on small businesses, small and medium-sized farmers. 90 years have passed and much has not changed, including ministers' responses. But this is a very interesting, very interesting reading. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed has submitted his speech to the minutes. [[Voice from the room: Isn't it yet...]] No, I haven't closed the discussion yet. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-10-senat-29-2.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's very short. I would like to thank Senator Bober once again and of course all my friends and those who support the popularization of Victor Kulerski's characters as an extraordinary man, a hero, a Pole who devoted the times of partitions and times of free Poland to his country in the Second Republic. But to that statement, I was inspired by Senator Sillyman's speech. Indeed, when I talked to my fellow senators before and we talked about this character, Victor Kulerski, they said, "We don't know him, we've never heard of him." And I think it's that so many people in Poland And the senators. It does not know such outstanding characters, exceptional ones, which in such an unusual way deserved for the freedom of the Republic of Poland, to some extent affects the critical assessment of the entire education system. Unfortunately, we look at the history of Poland rather than saying: only by the prism of Warsaw, maybe Krakow, maybe some other cities, maybe Vilnius and Lviv, but we do not see that the history of Poland is a story that also works on Western lands, that there were exceptional, extremely great people. Victor's history textbook at primary and secondary school gave less than a sentence that there was someone who gave the Grudziądzka gazeta. He published it, created, you can say, the press empire, the largest in Poland, which published the largest Polish-speaking newspaper in all Polish lands. So it was a character that had an extraordinary impact on the identity and awareness of citizens. And at the same time he was an entrepreneur. It's rare that we talk about these people... He was an entrepreneur, publisher, and he wrote, which means he was a man who was just doing this positive thing. And it was these people who led to the fact that Poland could be free in 1918 and Pomerania in 1920. And at this point I would also like to thank Mr Viktor Kulerski, Jr., the grandson of Viktor Kulerski, who was a Member of the Polish Parliament in 1989, a activist of the democratic opposition in the times of the Polish People's Republic and a Deputy Minister of Education, education already in free Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-10-senat-29-2.u21	Thank you very much, senator. Now I can close the discussion quietly. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in honor of the outstanding independent activist, publisher and politician Victor Kulerski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 31]] [[Applause]] Before I ask Mr Piotr Kulerski and Mr Glamowski to the president's table, I would like to remind you that a half-hour break for the opening of the exhibition will be announced in a moment. I encourage you to return to the O.R. in order to make and listen to senator statements. I ask Mr Piotr and President Glamowski to approach the presidential table. [[The Marshal hands over a resolution]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-10-senat-29-2.u22	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I was very moved to take the initiative of the senators and President Grudziądz... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Can I have a moment of focus, please?]] I'll say again... Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I was very moved to hear about the celebrations in Grudziądz, about this resolution, about the initiative of Senators Bober and Kleina. I am very grateful to all those who participated in the organization of all these events commemorating my great-grandfather. Thank you very much to the marshal for being present at the conference in Grudziądz on September 3rd. I would just like to say that this story, as Senator Kleina has already mentioned, did not end on September 18, 1935. Witold, son of Victor Kulerski, will talk about it very briefly. He was a member of the National Council in London, Secretary of the National Council, which is the Polish Sejm. Well, he was an envoy because it was such a substitute for the Polish Sejm. He was also Secretary of Prime Minister Nicholas. After returning to Poland, he was arrested as a activist of the People's Party. He spent eight years in a heavy prison in Wronki, of which four years without a bath and without a walk. I stress: 8 years of hard prison. He had two sons, or uncle Victor and my father Mark. The uncle was chased by an APB for six years of martial law. When he came out, he was arrested because he was a co-founder of the KOR, the leader of the "Solidarity" in Ursus. Then he was, like the senator said here, a Member, a Deputy Minister, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education. My dad, in turn, was the creator and leader of Solidarity in Mazowsze, the leader of Medical and Medical Solidarity. He was interned in Białołęka. In the government of Prime Minister Mazowiecki he was a proxy of the Minister of Health for Foreign Relations. So that story continued, it didn't end with my great-grandfather. And once again, thank you very, very much to all of you. Mr. Marshal, I repeat, I am touched and proud of you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-10-senat-29-2.u23	Thank you very much. Dismissed until 11:40 p.m. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 09 to 11 minutes 40]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-10-senat-29-2.u24	I'm reopening the session. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the 21st Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Please draw up a list of senators willing to make a statement. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements, statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's delivery would not be possible for the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. Senator statements are not discussed. [[This is Senator Jackowski first.]] Everyone agrees that Mr. Jackowski, by way of exception, should be the first to make a statement. You're welcome, Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-10-senat-29-2.u25	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have three brief statements. I am the first to be sent to the President of the Polish National Railways. It concerns the Wejherów railway station. Because this is a very important facility that hundreds of people use every day, while its technical condition, as well as the availability of sanitation and other necessary infrastructure, raises many doubts. I am making this statement just after meetings with people using this station, which pointed out to me that it would be necessary to carry out the renovation of the station and modernise it so that it could perform the functions for which it is intended in an appropriate manner. The second statement is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure. In recent months we have seen growing demand for electric cars in Poland. This is certainly influenced by the introduced system of aid for buying e-auts. However, in the sucurs development of this motorization branch does not come the development of an e-car charging network. Despite the action taken by Orlen, GDDKiA and local governments and other entities, the level of coverage of our country with charging stations seems to be far insufficient. In view of the fact that in the foreseeable future we can expect an increasing number of e-auts on the roads, I am asking the question of what steps the Ministry intends to take in order to make the infrastructure needed for the operation of e-auts available to the general public. And a third statement, to the climate minister. Recently, the public found out about the expected increase in gas prices. One of the symptoms is information on the reduction of gas transmission from Russia. There has already been information that Russia has so far restricted the transport of gas to storage zones in Europe. According to experts, this will put pressure on the price of blue fuel up because the heating season is approaching and no responsible government will deprive its citizens of access to the heat source. The situation, as experts say, is dynamic. In view of the fact that the electoral district No. 39, i.e. the Ciechan sub-region from which I have the honour to be a senator, is largely warmed up by gas, gas is used in poultry farming and for business projects, but above all as a source of heat energy, please inform whether the discharge of turbulence and potential restrictions on gas transmission will affect the quantity and price of fuel for customers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-10-senat-29-2.u26	Thank you, Senator. I'd like to make a statement to Senator Alicia Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-10-senat-29-2.u27	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is addressed to the Minister of Health. Here we are, ladies and gentlemen, on the threshold of the fourth wave of the COVID epidemic, fourth roll. The number of cases is actually increasing. According to forecasts 1 out of 4 Poles will suffer from cancer and 1 out of 5 will die. The annual number of deaths due to cancer has already exceeded 100,000 years ago. Cancer has become the most common cause of death of Poles of working age. Almost all of us know those affected by this disease. My question to the minister is: how will medical care be secured for cancer patients in a pandemic? The pandemic that shaken the world's jobs and the health care system has had a huge impact on people with cancer. Before the pandemic, death rates relating to certain types of cancers in Poland began to stabilise or even decrease, and we were catching up with the countries of the European Union. This was because the role of primary and secondary prevention, as well as self-care, was more active, which coincided with improving the quality of oncology benefits and wider availability of therapy. Previous epidemics and lockdowns completely put it all together. They also put in hospital care because even though the Minister said that oncology is a green island, it won't touch oncology... Indeed, oncology centers were not affected, but multi-profile hospitals, academic clinics, which were not strict. Oncology, but they offered oncology benefits, they stood completely. The effect was that the mortality of patients was increased, not on COVID alone, but on cancer. Now, here's the real question. How will patients be given safe access to diagnostics and treatment? Will the diagnosis be carried out remotely again? As a child oncologist, I'd like to add that you're not going to recognize the cancer remotely. You have to come up with a system that will allow you to do it in a different way. Finally, has the impact of the pandemic on oncology been investigated? Have the results obtained by the Minister been taken into account in the planning of the measures that will secure the oncology benefits? How will patients who are in the process of treatment be protected during chemotherapy, who must be treated and will be banned by COVID-19? And the question is, what percentage of cancer patients have been vaccinated against COVID? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-10-senat-29-2.u28	Thank you, Senator. I'd like to make a statement to Senator Magdalena Loven.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-10-senat-29-2.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have two statements. I am the first to address Marlena Maląg's Minister of Family and Social Policy to you. It concerns the fact that on 6 August I asked the Minister from this pulpit, I asked the Ministry whether the law introduced to the Senate on the initiative of the Senate was properly implemented, at the request and in cooperation with the anti-communist opposition community, concerning the correct calculation of their pensions and pensions. I will remind you that this law is dated 30 March 2021. Having not received an answer from the Minister to the question whether the Social Insurance Institution correctly interprets the provisions of this law, I repeat this question, because in the meantime further information has been received from my office that the Social Insurance Institution of this amendment of the Act on Combatants and the amendment of benefits from the Social Insurance Institution does not notice and continues to apply the provisions adopted by the Sejm more than a year earlier, 14 August 2020. Therefore, activists who are required to charge new pensions on the basis of the subsequent provisions of the Law of 30 March 2021 have no conversions made. Moreover, the refusals they receive from the Social Security Office operate the date of the earlier act. Therefore, I repeat my question, since the branches of the Social Insurance Institution in Płock, Sierpcu, Szczecin, Warsaw have not noticed any changes in the rules favorable to anti-communist activists, and I ask you to answer why this is happening. I hope that this time the Minister will keep the deadline, because the questions thus formulated on 6 August this year have not been answered so far. The second statement is addressed to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. Are the press reports true, reports that can be read on social media, that Poland negotiates a dozen billion-dollar loan with China? If that's not true, I'm asking for written confirmation of that fact. And if there is a grain of truth in these reports, I ask you to answer what purposes, in what amount and under what conditions this loan is being negotiated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-10-senat-29-2.u30	Thank you, Senator. And I ask you to make a statement to Senator George Wcisla.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-10-senat-29-2.u31	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! My statement is addressed to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, Mr Mariusz Kaminski. Dear Minister, The city of Elbląg decided to fund scholarships for students of the fifth and sixth years of medicine in exchange for taking up work in an Elbląg hospital for a minimum period of 4.5 years. In a situation where health care is faced with huge staff problems, mainly due to lack of resources, these are very desirable measures that could increase the amount of resources addressed to health care. In this case, they would come from local authorities and encourage students who do not have sufficient financial resources for six-year studies. Unfortunately, the Warmia-Mazurski voivode annulled the resolution of the City Council in Elbląg, claiming, among other things, that the city cannot accept commitments for such a distant future, because it is unable to predict conditions independent of the local government. Even if the fact that local authorities make decisions on events and future situations almost every day is ignored, it must be pointed out that this decision concerns only two years in which the student receives aid and a further four to five years in which he will work in a specific hospital. In such a defined perspective, one thing is certain: the situation in Polish hospitals will not be good. In addition, such resolutions were adopted, among others. Management Boards of Mazowieckie, Opole, Lubuskie, Świętokrzyskie Voivodship, Częstochowa and Węgrowski County, Klukborski, Lipnowski, poleecki, Gorlicki and Kłobucki. They were all accepted by the supervisory authority. Poland is a legally uniform country and there should not be a situation where the interpretation of the law varies depending on the state body carrying out this assessment. I would therefore ask you to make a uniform legal interpretation of the question of funding scholarships to students in exchange for taking up work in certain institutions, and I ask you to take into account the fact that local authorities support these actions in solving difficult social and financial problems, which many Poles may not be able to solve, cost their health or even their lives. Please inform me of the actions and decisions taken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-10-senat-29-2.u32	Thank you, Senator. Please make a statement to Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-10-senat-29-2.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The statement is addressed to the Minister of Health, Mr. Adam Niedzielski. Dear Minister, due to information coming into my senator's office regarding the lack of availability of Tegretol CR 200 in pharmacies throughout Poland, please explain the situation. On 11 March, a notice from the Minister of Health was published on the list of products that are at risk of lack of availability in Poland. Tegretol CR 200 has been removed from this list. It is also stated that by the end of March It should be available at the beginning of April. Unfortunately, now, at the beginning of September, the drug is not available properly in all pharmacies in Poland, and patients are deprived of the possibility of effective treatment. The replacement of this medicine, which contains the same active substance at an equivalent dose, is a prolonged-release medicine, unlike Tegretol, which has a modified release. In addition, changes in epilepsy therapy from one preparation to another are at risk for the patient and should not be abused. Tegretol is a medicine used not only in epilepsy, but also in the case of idiopathic tricyclic nerve pain and tricyclic nerve pain in multiple sclerosis, as well as e.g. idiopathic neuralgia of the tongue-pharyngeal nerve. It is also used in manic syndrome and to prevent recurrence of bipolar disorder. Consequently, a very wide range of patients have been deprived of effective treatment. I'm asking you kindly for an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-10-senat-29-2.u34	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor and make a statement by Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-10-senat-29-2.u35	Dear Marshal, High Senate! I direct my protest and request to the hands of Zbigniew Ziobra, Minister of Justice, because as Senator of Gorzow Land, District 21, I cannot accept the conduct of the Polish Railways of the State SA and I am outraged by it. This institution has an extreme lack of respect for the law. Desperate owners have come to my senator's office asking for intervention because they have been looking forward to very simple justice for years. Mr. D. W. is an honest and hardworking man working in his private farm, his mother is a long-standing social worker, village chief C., and for 11 years they have become hostages on their own land and are fighting in courts for their rights. All judgments given in this case, including the decision of the representative of the State, i.e. the Lubuskie voivode Edward Dajczak The decision to review, dated 20 April 2017, is in favour of Mr D. W. This decision refuses to confirm the acquisition by law of land owned by the State Treasury within the village of C., the municipality of S., which bears the registration number of the plot and the right of perpetual use of that land and the property rights of the building and equipment on that site by PKP SA. In my view, the lack of a definitive consensus on this matter is not due to the lack of knowledge of the Polish National Railways, but to the lack of ordinary kindness, which is so lacking in our country. Minister, you have a chance. I deeply believe that you will make a decision on this matter and inform me, as Senator of Lubusian land, in writing. Thank you, Mr. Marshal, for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-10-senat-29-2.u36	Thank you, Senator. I'd like to make a statement to Senator Alexander Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-10-senat-29-2.u37	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to address my statement to the Minister of Family and Social Policy, Mrs Marleny Maląg. 2 days ago, on 8 September this year, the Council of Ministers adopted a bill on one of the key reforms announced in the Polish Łada, i.e. pensions without tax up to PLN 2 000 500. Almost 18 million taxpayers, including some 8 million pensioners, are expected to benefit from the reform. The draft legislation assumes that income tax will not be paid from retirement and pension to PLN 2 000 500 per month, which means that these benefits will be increased by the amount of tax. The reform will gain 90% Retirement and pensioners, and 2/3 of them won't pay tax at all. The solution will enter into force from 1 January 2022. As far as pensioners with higher benefits are concerned, they will only pay tax on an amount exceeding PLN 2 000 500. I would like to ask you to provide detailed calculations on how much the pensioners and pensioners will receive each year from the lowest pension to the amount of PLN 2 000 500. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-10-senat-29-2.u38	Thank you, Senator. And I ask you to make a statement by Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-10-senat-29-2.u39	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is addressed to the Minister of State Assets, Prime Minister Sasin, and I am doing it on behalf of myself and Senator Joanna Sekuła. We have been dealing with a dramatic situation in Polish energy for a long time. First, there was a failed investment related to the energy block in Ostrołęka. Over 2 billion zlotys were wasted there, in fact no consequences were drawn from those who made these decisions, and it is not a clear plan to modernise and build a new gas block here. Then there was a dramatic situation with a newly built power block in Jaworzno. Over PLN 6 billion has been spent on this block, and the information that is being received indicates that this block will not be re-used in the near future due to the failure that occurred there. The block is crucial for the energy security of the country. The company that carried out this project, Rafako, is in a very difficult financial situation. The government is not engaged in support of Rafako or in modernising this power block. If this situation lasts longer and the information that appears shows that the block can be shut down even by 2024, there is a real risk of a major energy collapse. In addition, capacity installed in energy, in this coal part, about 30 GW, in a large part will have to be, simply due to technical death, excluded by 2030. We already have a block failure in Bełchatów today. There is a very difficult and unclear situation in Turów. All this proves that Poland is in fact in danger of a very serious energy crisis. I would therefore like to get full and true information about the government's intention to resolve the huge problem of energy security in the country. Because the creation of the National Energy Safety Agency, to which all non-profit coal-fired power plants are to be hit, is de facto only and exclusively a procedure that can help energy companies today managed by the State Treasury, but does not solve to any extent the problem in the future, and this is the nearest one, connected with energy, energy supply and energy security of Poles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-10-senat-29-2.u40	Thank you, Senator. That's where we end up making senatorial statements. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the twenty-nineth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office in room 255. The twenty-nineth session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the Xth term of office is closed. [[Meeting adjourned at 12 minutes 06]]
