ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u1	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators! I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held both in a traditional manner and using means of distance communication. Mr. and Mrs. Senators in the Senate building, please check to see if you all have disabled applications to participate remotely. And your senators taking part in the meeting remotely inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If you have any problems, please contact us at the number you have previously provided. Ladies and gentlemen, since some of the people voting remotely have some problem with the connection, the turnout vote, if you will allow us, will be conducted after the speech of Minister Szymański, after the point on information. We have a phone call, they're present, but some of them can't connect. So we're going to vote right after this point. And the reckoned state in the courtroom, and those who speak, and those who are attainable, give a quorum, so to speak, with much excess. I don't hear any objections, so we're about to proceed with the adjournment at 30th. I would also like to ask for precision and contention in order, because, on the one hand, many expectations are being expressed to me in order to get to the votes as soon as possible today, and on the other hand, we have quite important points. Oh, yeah, I got a signal that the connection trouble had been overcome. We will therefore proceed with the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators attending the sitting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. Already, Professor? Please state the results of the vote. 63 senators voted. And so much at the moment is taking part in the meeting, but, as you can see, this number is increasing every second. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: information for the Polish Sejm and Senate on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union during the period January and June 2021 (presidentship of Portugal in the Council of the European Union). The text of the information is contained in print No 461. He addressed the information received to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. At its meeting on 7 October 2021, the Commission examined the information and informed the Senate Marshal. Allow me now to welcome Mr Konrad Szymański to the meeting of the Minister for European Union Affairs. I ask the Minister to speak and present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u2	I take it you can take the mask off during the performance? [[Voices from the hall: Yes, yes.]] [[Subject to double vaccination.]] Yes. The Portuguese Presidency took place between January and June 2021. It was, of course, another six months when pandemic issues continued to play a very important role, happily mainly in the area of combating economic consequences and building resilience to future, but possibly similar events. This was a pre-vacation period and, therefore, the Presidency and the Member States attached very much attention to ensuring that a system of EU certificates, certificates which are intended to certify the fact of vaccination, the fact of acquired immunity or the test carried out in an effective manner were fully implemented. This is a system of mutual recognition of documents issued by national medical services, which has significantly facilitated the possibility of defrosting in particular those sectors for which the holiday period is a very important time. A very important element was further work on strengthening the institutional and regulatory framework of the European Union in this area. We have strengthened the mandate of the European Medical Agency, as well as the European Centre for the Environment. Disease prevention and control. This paved the way for what we are doing today, that is to call the HERA. On the one hand, the Agency is tasked with establishing a model for the rapid exchange of information in the event of future similar events. This is building on the experiences of these first, most dramatic months of pandemics we've dealt with some time ago. On the other hand, HERA, in addition to these anti-crisis measures, is to focus on building, expanding production capacity in the medical area, because one of the important experiences of that time was Europe's too far-reaching dependence on third countries, among others. in this area. Going further, but from the same point of reference, I would like to draw attention to the fact that dynamics have taken on discussion of strategic autonomy not only in the area of security, but also in the economic area, which today seems much more concrete and much more a consensual aspect of what we understand as strategic autonomy, open strategic autonomy. First of all, these are adjustments in trade policy and industrial policy, whose common and main objective is to reduce Europe's medical dependence, but also the digital economy, which is important for this aspect of reconstruction. Poland was one of the 9 countries initiating this debate, the 9 countries which presented a programme document on industrial policy adjustment. And we are still an active country taking part in this discussion. As far as reconstruction is concerned, Poland, in the same way as today, stresses the key importance of the internal market for reconstruction. In addition to transfers which are of obvious immediate importance, the key dimension of the European Union's resilience to the economic consequences of pandemics is the common market, which should not be the victim of this experience, but rather the opposite. It should be developed precisely because it builds Europe's economic resilience. In this area, the Portuguese Presidency has also included migration and asylum issues. We've talked about this many times here. Poland has changed the paradigm of this policy, and it is about focusing on external issues of migration policy. If necessary, external borders should also be protected by common forces. The second element is return policy. Here we draw attention to the fact that countries of origin and transit of migration are very often recipients of European Union aid policy, development policy. We believe that the elements of conditionality should be introduced there. The intensity and development of development policy vis-à-vis these regions should be linked to the responsible attitude of those countries with regard to the reception and effective return policy of those who are moving towards Europe from their territories. Another issue is climate issues. Climate law has been adopted, which confirms the Polish approach to transformation. I'll pay attention here to two things. Firstly, we are talking about EU-wide objectives, which creates a space to build diverse energy transition scenarios, and this is absolutely crucial from a Polish point of view. Secondly, 10-year cycles have been introduced, intermediate accounting cycles, which also give a certain amount of flexibility. This should not be confused with the whole climate package. Fit for 55. This package will certainly be the most difficult negotiating element not only for Poland but also for the whole Union. We now see how divergent, often openly conflicting interests are shown in this package. In this context, we maintain the fundamental expectation that energy transformation is fair. This is also a concept which was introduced into international law, to the international discourse by Poland, by Minister Kurtyka in the framework of the COP24 conference, which then... Today begins another, twenty-sixth, and then it took place in Katowice. We note that it is not only the groups most vulnerable to energy poverty, the social aspect, but also that fair burden sharing should also apply to social groups, sectors of the economy, as well as countries, national economies. The Union's climate policy simply must not lead to distortions of competition in the common market, it must not lead to energy poverty. And this applies not only to Poland, but also to the whole of Central Europe. On the other hand, This is, of course, a vote for a debate more internal than an EU debate. We draw attention to the fact that it is in the interest of Poland and Central Europe to determine its own national path adapted to the economic circumstances of the transition path and to carry it out as soon as possible. We see clearly that this is the experience of the last 10 years that any delay in this area results in an increase in the cost of this transformation. So this is an extremely difficult task. As I have emphasised, it will be crucial and very difficult not only at EU level but also from the point of view of planning in the country. Another issue that is important for Portugal during its Presidency is digital. I'll pay attention here. Only for 2 elements: the Digital Markets and Digital Services Regulation. The Digital Markets Regulation essentially addresses the proper balance of interests between large platforms that slowly cut the internet and dominate the internet and the rest of the market. We believe that the competitiveness of the economy, the competitiveness of this sector should be based on better balance, better balance between these different actors. Given that the law for them was created a long time ago when we did not deal with phenomena such as large online platforms, today this market is unsustainable and the law should protect competition in this market and act more in favour of medium-sized and small enterprises than it does today. The second issue is digital services. This is a much more civil issue. It is more about strengthening the user's position vis-à-vis large platforms. There are a lot of things here that are crucial and unsolved. This is, above all, a question of freedom of expression, how one should balance the right expectation that, in the digital sphere, we should effectively fight disinformation, the hybrid threats that today are destabilizing even large Member States and, on the other hand, protect freedom of expression, which is crucial from the point of view, I think, of the whole European model. Another issue is social Europe. At that time, the Portuguese Presidency decided to convene another social summit, following the Gothenburg summit. Poland, as you know, has an extremely active, ambitious social policy. We do not argue with the objectives of this policy, but note that these actions, the subsequent social summits, should not be understood as building a new legal basis, a new transfer of competence in the field of social policy. This remains for regulation under national legislation, which is adapted not only to certain solutions over time well rooted in the social, economic reality of the countries concerned. This is also a question of the diversity of national capacities in terms of creating such or other standards in this area. It seems that this is a common view, it seems that there is no greater controversy here. The last issue is global. We had unplanned but important events in this area. Following the Polish initiative, the European Union adopted a fourth package of sanctions against Belarus in June 2021 in response to repression, which increased mainly during the elections and after the elections in Belarus. On the other hand, also on the Polish initiative, we have introduced an economic plan for democratic Belarus, which is a clear offer, to the European Union's agenda. And that's, I think, politically relevant. This, too, protects the European Union from presenting it as a force that is openly hostile to Belarus as such. This economic plan for Belarus today, created in accordance with the European Council's commitment by the European Commission, simply assumes the willingness of the European Union to provide rapid economic assistance on the day when we can talk about free and democratic Belarus. The second important issue, not planned for the Presidency, but very crucial, is the European Union's policy towards Russia. According to the Polish position, the European Council rejected the German-French proposal to return to talks with Russia at the highest political level. At the same time, I think that this is perhaps even more important, confirmed very clearly the five key principles of the European Union's policy towards Russia. Let me remind you that this is about implementing Minsk agreements, respecting Ukraine's territorial integrity, supporting civil society in Russia, developing economic and political relations with the Eastern Partnership countries wherever it is ready, and, of course, minimising political cooperation to areas of common interest, only to areas where this is absolutely necessary. Another issue, this time planned on the agenda of the Portuguese Presidency on global issues, was the enlargement of the Union to the Western Balkans. The adoption of the new methodology took an incredibly long time and slowed down the whole process. This has been done for purely political reasons, as a result of certain political constraints on some of the capitals of the Member States of the Union. The adoption of a new methodology for Serbia and Montenegro allowed for an intergovernmental conference to be convened, which is some progress, although this is certainly not progress enough. No arrangements, no framework for Albania and Northern Macedonia In particular, I refer to the case of the other country, to the enormous political effort to standardise the neighbouring relations of that country. It's a serious mistake. The political constraints of some capitals translate into weakening Europe in this part of the world, weakening common interests, not only those most tangible, commercial, but also political interests, because in this region, in this part of Europe, we are faced with obvious, open strategic competition with countries such as China, Russia or Turkey. In conclusion, I stress that this was a time of very important change in the international area. These were not only issues of Belarus or Russia, which I mentioned, but also issues concerning the change of power in the United States. This is very visible when it comes to rhetoric within these relationships, but for concreteization in areas such as climate I'm sure we'll have to wait a little longer on China's policy. This does not translate as quickly as many people expected into major political changes. In the economic area, this has been a time of increased work to reduce the dependence of the European Union on third countries, in particular in those most crucial in terms of pandemic experience and reconstruction. All these political directions are strongly supported by Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u3	Thank you very much, Minister, for the extremely precise and compact presentation of this report. Would any of your senators like to ask you questions about this information? I don't see any calls. Thank you. Two senators signed up for the discussion. First Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u4	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! What matters is not what was discussed in the Minister's speech, but what was not in it. Namely, it was not the most important topic for Poland and Poles, which electrifies the public opinion, and which concerns a dispute between the government of the Republic of Poland and the bodies of the European Union. This is a dispute that has its origins in the deeply anti-European approach of the current government, which has emerged in recent months. I'm not talking about Eurosceptic statements. I'm talking about the anti-European approach of this government, which has begun to manifest itself... This last phase began exactly during this period, which was described by the Minister. After all, in April this year, i.e. during the period described, another complaint from the European Commission was brought before the Court of Justice of the European Union. It was a complaint against the muzzle bill. What the muzzle bill was like, that is, the repressive law against Polish judges, we know perfectly well, because we considered it a year ago. It also responded to the ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union in November 2019 and the subsequent ruling of the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Poland, which at that time recognised, in December 2019, that the National Court of Justice is not a body independent of both the legislative authority and the executive authority, and that the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court does not give a guarantee that it is an independent court. It's all in our minds. Following this, the muzzle law followed several proposals from the European Commission, including the most important one. And the most important one, I stress this once again, was during the period we discussed. The European Commission then, including its April proposal, exactly from 31 March, but it arrived in April, this year, felt that Poland was in breach of European Union law. And not on a trivial matter, but on a fundamental issue for Poles and Poles, on a fundamental issue for all citizens of the European Union. That is, by allowing the Disciplinary Chamber to punish judges for their duties, among others. asking for the legality of the judges' vocations at the request of the same neo-KRS and that they acknowledge the pending Disciplinar Chamber. The hangover means subject to political power. And not only did the European Commission request that this action be dealt with by the Court of Justice, but also that emergency measures be applied, so-called. interim measure, by the Court of Justice. We therefore have a speech on 31 March of this year, which in April came to the Court of Justice of the European Union. We have a procedure that starts in the spring and which is a very clear signal that the ruling can lead to fatal consequences for Poles and Poles and that the consequences of this decision will be passed by the government to the Polish taxpayer, i.e. every Pole and every Polish woman, because for failing to comply with a possible ruling of the Court of Justice Poles will pay out of their own pocket. It was time to start serious negotiations. It was time to introduce such modifications into the disciplinary system, which, as we know, is unconstitutional in Poland, in order to avoid these consequences, in order to prevent these consequences. So what happened? In order to be precise, Poland or the Polish Government referred to this complaint and considered it inappropriate. But the Court of Justice in July this year. in his fundamental judgment, when he recognized the Commission's complaint, he acknowledged all its allegations. I would stress that he accepted all of her charges. And what did he do? He has frozen the activities of the Disciplinary Chamber, as the Disciplinary Chamber does not give guarantees of independence and impartiality. So what did the Court of Justice of the European Union do? He repeated in fact everything that was in the judgment of the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Poland of 2019 quoted by me earlier in December. The Court of Justice of the European Union was in line with the ruling of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Poland. Doesn't that make you think? Does this not require immediate action against the further possible consequences of this political stubbornness? The Court of Justice has developed its own mind. He considered that the Disciplinary Board therefore did not give this guarantee of independence, because it was filled with persons designated by the new National Court of Justice, whom I quote That's exactly the same thing. This is the exact repetition of this position, which was presented publicly by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Poland in December 2019. This is exactly what we have been talking about in this House for many years, that the neo-KRS is not independent, but dependent, that the neo-KRS does not fulfil its constitutional obligations, that the neo-KRS does not uphold the independence of the judge. We had this. notabene dramatic confirmation yesterday, when in Vilnius this neo-KRS was excluded from the international network of European Judicial Councils, the one in which she participated, which she was one of the initiators. I already ignore the fact that this is a dramatic signal for Poles, for Poles, for Poland as a whole. I am just talking about the fact that the various bodies and institutions of the European Union I have been talking about, namely the Commission, the European Parliament, the Court of Justice, but also international associations are unanimous in their assessment. What else? The Court of Justice ruled in July that it is incompatible with EU law to punish judges for asking preliminary questions, and therefore that the disciplinary system, which is in force in Poland, allows for activities that are incompatible with EU law and violates judicial independence. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been some time from July to last Wednesday and we have another effect, not only the evaluation, not only the call for immediate suspension of the Disciplinary Chamber, but also the financial consequences. Today, at 9.04 a.m., it is already 9.32 p.m., so this sum is certainly more than the financial impact of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union was EUR 2 million 378 thousand. I repeat: 2 million EUR 378 thousand. The counter beats irresistibly, which weighs the pockets of Poles. It is about the benefits lost by Poland because the amount of EUR 1 million per day, which has so far grown to this size, has been decided by the Court in a clear and definitive manner. And the measure of the government's irresponsibleness is that this sentence has not yet been executed. There are still political consequences, not just financial consequences, because the Union is not just the money money from which we draw. There are still dramatic consequences, of strategic importance for Poland. Poland is on the complete margin of the European Community. Poland, which over the years has been recognised as one of the most important links of European integration, Poland, which has been giving, for many years, so to speak, for the unity of the European Union not only a contribution, but also its reputation and reputation of all its state institutions. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]] [[It's 10 minutes, Mr. Senator.]] It's just a minute, please. However, at the moment we are dealing with war rhetoric, starting with the need for drastic solutions, I quote from memory the statement of Marshal Terletki, through 2 speeches, if I remember correctly, Mr Suski, who spoke about how, as we opposed the Soviet occupation, we will defend ourselves against the Brussels occupation. From what? The Brussels occupation? At a time when 74% In 2003, Poles voted in favour of our country's membership in the European Union? When attendance in this referendum was 54% , if I remember correctly, and it was the only important and only legally effective referendum in the recent history of Poland? And finally, when does Prime Minister Morawiecki threaten the Third World War? Not with the East, but with our friends and partners from the European Union. What's more, from this Union where we are. Because it is not that Poland is on the one hand and the European Union on the other. Poland is in the European Union. And, Minister, forgetting during this report about what happened in March, April last year, is a mistake, but there is more to it than that. The attempt to hide this from those who listen to us, that everything that happened later, is a measure of omissions at the beginning and then of bad will from this government, which exposes Poland to terrible consequences, not only financially but also politically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u5	Thank you very much. Senator Alexander Swed speaks.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u6	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! The Government of Law and Justice has never denied that Poland is in the European Union, but I think that the accusations of my previous speaker will be directly addressed by the Minister himself. I'll focus on the information. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister very warmly for the information submitted on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union during the January-June 2021 period, during the Presidency of Portugal in the Council of the European Union. For this information submitted in the High House, as well as in writing. Looking at the document itself prepared in connection with the article. 3 (1) (a) 1 of the Act of 8 October 2010 on cooperation of the Council of Ministers with the Sejm and the Senate in matters relating to the membership of the Republic of Poland in the European Union, we see that it consists of 3 chapters. The first chapter focuses on the Portuguese Presidency and its importance for the interests of Poland in the European Union, the second, very extensive, activity of Poland in the priorities of the Portuguese Presidency, and the third chapter focuses on the remaining areas of the functioning of the European Union. As we know, Portugal has held the Presidency of the Council of the European Union during the first half of this year, and its activities have mainly taken place during the continuation of extensive efforts to overcome the crisis associated with the outbreak of the pandemic of Coronavirus. The Presidency has mainly pursued its 3 objectives, including the promotion of green transition, the implementation of the European Pillar of Social Rights and the strengthening of Europe's autonomy. For all these purposes, our country also had its activities. The Presidency has faced a really big challenge, and the effects of the pandemic have been and have so far been strongly felt. Further efforts have therefore been made in financial matters, reforms and investments to get out of the crisis. Poland responded positively to many discussions and supported the proposed solutions which could in any way improve the system and cooperation between Member States. A great deal of emphasis has also been placed on economic policy issues under the priority of Europe resilient and a lot of topics have been discussed, including the industrial strategy. Poland, of course, took the stand to improve and focus European industry on the so-called. green, with emphasis on maintaining appropriate standards and focusing on needs. In addition, the migration-asylum package was jointly examined. Poland has taken the side of accepting solidarity in a crisis situation and has positively assessed the Presidency's work on the Pact. In addition, it supported initiatives to promote the rule of law and democracy in the European Union and actively acted in proceedings recognised by the Court of Justice. Poland has also been very active in its work to reach a common agreement with the United Kingdom on the determination of fishing quotas and on the development of increased digital sovereignty. European data management has also been active and it has been stressed that the trust and security of individual sectors is highly important. Poland has also been involved in the development of regulations that protect the confidentiality of communication and data. They ended with a joint compromise. Finally, let me quote a few words from Minister Konrad Szymański, who fell in the Sejm and with whom I fully agree. I think that even short-term observers of what was happening in 2015 and what is happening today see that there has been a change in the Union's response. This is a change in a very important area. Without Poland, there would be no emphasis on the development of the common market. Without Poland, there would be no Fund for Reconstruction for all, not just for the southern part of the euro area, which was actually the most affected by the economic consequences of the pandemic. Without Poland there would be no market restrictions for the Russian gas export dictatorship to the European market. With the Gas Directive and the amendments to this directive, which we have jointly adopted together with some of the opposition politicians, I do not know whether we can be much safer with all, but certainly with a large part of today, because market rigour will be imposed on a much larger part of Russian gas, which will unfortunately have a comfortable place on the European market. This has not been affected by the European Union. That's what our western neighbor had to do with it. In trying to sum up not so much information, but this debate, I can say one thing: contrary to the hustle which accompanied the debate on European policy and I have the impression that Poland is permanently accompanying almost every debate in Poland, Poland is able to conduct constructive, aware of the interests of the state, predictable European policy in the area of such important key issues as security, foreign affairs, the market or industrial policy. I would like to thank Minister Konrad Szymański once again very warmly for all the positive actions in the international arena for our country and for the extremely reliable and substantive information for the Sejm and the Senate about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union during the Presidency of Portugal in the Council of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u7	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator Klich devoted his attention to something actually absolutely fundamental, which has the effect at least in the form of a very serious reduction of our influence in the European Union or self-connection. I will not repeat these arguments, but I would like to draw attention to two aspects on which the meaning of such a debate and such debates in Parliament depends. One is substantive and the other is procedural. Such debates make sense if they are linked to the part of national policy that is linked to the EU's challenges. The Minister has touched on a matter, but he has not developed it, and if such matters are not developed, the debate will be flawed in substance. This is not just a complaint to the Minister, because just from these debates about the Presidency there have been purely reporting debates, as if it were completely independent of what we are doing in the country. I listened attentively to this speech and those passages that concerned the new energy order or the new green order. The Minister says: together with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, we have defended the criterion of justice on this issue, i.e. Fair distribution of the costs of this great transformation towards green criteria, both regionally and socially. And there was this: well, of course this is a kind of challenge for national policy. Well, then we'd expect this national policy to be referred, because we think we're running out of time here. Firstly, we do not know a specific plan for fair order, which would be expressed in government decisions, and secondly, it seems that it is possible to say that the pace of implementation on the Polish side is very small. So I would urge you to discuss key decisions within the EU in connection with national policy, because we have a serious delay here and it is worth asking ourselves: why? And the second point is a procedural issue. It makes no sense to debate the Presidency, which ended in June, 4 months after the end of the Presidency. We should take it. or on the basis of a convention, a custom, that is, with the approval of the government I'm curious to hear from the Minister. That we are debating this no later than one month after the end of the Presidency. Or enter into the Senate's Rules of Procedure 'Cause it's in line with the co-operation law. The rule that we debate after a month. Because then it makes sense and we can also prepare for the next Presidency. Well, because we are not conducting a historical seminary, we are working with the government to maximize the quality of Polish European policy. I therefore submit this to the Minister, and to the High House, for consideration, a variety of this custom, which is in the Senate and in the Seym, that it is spoken after 3, 4 months. In fact, the next Presidency is about to pass. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u9	Thank you, Senator. And I'd like you to speak with Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will speak on my behalf, as I see the current situation, both within the Union and at the interface between Poland and Poland. The European Union. Although more needs, indeed, to pay attention, I think, to the European Union itself. She's got bigger problems, there's more problems than we think. There are problems, I would call it objective, this is COVID. Let us remember that the Union has failed in the fight against COVID. I still have in mind the scenes that happened in Italy, the trucks with corpses and the complete helplessness of the Union, complete. Everyone then acted in their favor, everyone fought as hard as they could. The Union only woke up when it could, I would call it, trying to counteract it with vaccines. But there were problems with that too, because we remember that some of the countries tried to inoculate their citizens as soon as possible. The second problem that we're feeling right now is on our skin. But what's happening in the Mediterranean isn't quiet, it's not over. They're refugees. And that's going to be a problem that's going to grow, because it's starting to be treated as a political problem, a political issue. And problem number three, probably the most important, because long-term, stretched over time, but also the most difficult to counteract, namely losing competitive advantage. The Union wanted to be a single economic organism that was supposed to be able to stand in the way of the United States, China. You can't see that, unfortunately. What you can see, what you're seeing, for example, is breaking the supply chains. If you don't believe me, ask the car dealers what's going on with the new cars, why they're standing in the parking lot at the record companies, at the assembly rooms. These are problems, I would call it, of an objective nature, less maybe intentional, partly resulting from omissions. Well, there are also those that the Union creates for itself, like every socialist organism, at its own request and then tries... not yet at that stage, but will try to fight them. I mean, she's gonna try to fight what's not in other systems, in other organizations. The first point is the attempt to try, for the time being, to practice in the various areas of taking over the competences that the national states have in the treaty, among the participants of the treaties. The States have agreed to a certain delegation of powers and that is all. The EU institutions are trying by method, I would call it, the facts that have been made to expand these competences, so as to bring democracy out of the Union. This is another problem of the lack of democracy. And the cure, the remedy for this lack of democracy is certainly not the European Parliament. We could see about its level during the discussion in which Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki participated. What was the level of speech of those who listened to the Prime Minister? What were they referring to? But let's leave it, let's put a veil of silence on it. Fortunately, it was broadcast, and our fellow countrymen can make their own views about it. So, on the one hand, the abuse of powers and doing it out of law, completely out of law, by the way I say, the facts made, the method of applying precedent law, the attempt to introduce such a law... And what does that end with? Yeah, well, like any attempt to move towards an authoritarian system, that is, some perversions. We see it. We're trying to counter it, but... well, I'm not saying we're alone, but we're in a minority right now. The second issue, also related to this, is the loss of authority by individual EU institutions. Paradoxically, in my opinion, at least for the time being, the European Commission has lost this authority. It works as calculated, although it is a purely executive body. And she should be like this. It is already worse with the European Parliament, and I will not talk about the example that we have all seen. But what is happening to the Court of Justice of the European Union is already completely incomprehensible. I don't know if it's subconscious or amok. Ladies and gentlemen, judgments, judgments, or rather orders, because these are not always judgments yet, they lead to a simple thought: where is logic? After all, in law school they teach logic, as well as lawyers in the TSUE. How to treat what we were talking about in this House yesterday, for long hours, i.e. the interim provision on the security in the Turova case? On this... I don't know how to put it. In this example of illogical action, law students will learn about this in the future. One person... A lady who probably doesn't know anything about any technological, geological, natural processes, etc., says this: close it, because this way we will secure the claim; close the mine. But once we close it, that claim will be gone at all, it will become unobtrusive. This is the idea of a security measure that actually eliminates the need for judgment? Yeah, legal basis. Ladies and gentlemen, this has been observed before. There have been attempts to issue such temporary provisions just before significant moments in Poland, e.g. Three days before the municipal elections, it's quite a coincidence that this will play a role during the election campaign. Typical political action. The TSUE is not a court. After these provisions, after these decisions, this is another policy tool. And I say it with full responsibility. You can prove that by referring to the facts. Well, that's good. It loses the TSUE. He's losing his authority. Because, ladies and gentlemen, if it seems impossible, how do you define such a decision? This court is no longer a court. It becomes another policy area. Another problem is the attempt to introduce the back door, from the top, one ideology into all EU countries. It is not understood or allowed to realize that there may be people who do not believe in the ideology of LGBT. Where's the freedom? No, everybody's got to be like a string. I'm not talking about whether it's right or wrong, effective or ineffective, whether it's in accordance with the laws of nature or not. Let's leave it on the side. The basic question is whether it is allowed to be a person or a country, a group of people who do not believe in LGBT ideology, or will we use such measures to force them to confess it? We've been through this before. At least I remember it. It was called "communism." They all had the same views, or at least formally, officially. And such an ideology, the fight against the Catholic Church, we see it now in Poland, strengthened by the European institutions... It happens that we will simply have 2 levels of life, as it was in communism: on one our normal, internal, family, and on the other, outside... [[Mr. Senator, 10 minutes is up.]] If you don't mind, I'll finish the thought. And on the outside, it's official. There's gonna be a hate speech... The last question, and this is probably the most striking in us against appearances, although less far-reaching, namely the lack of economic solidarity. First of all, the Union was to be the glory of countries that cooperate economically: freedom of movement of capital, thought, work, goods. And where is this economic solidarity? Nord Stream 2 is this economic solidarity? It's not in use yet, and it's already working. Please note, it's already working. With whom are the Germans more sympathetic? With Russia or with Poland when it comes to Nord Stream 2? These are basic issues. The Union is beginning to lose its roots, and it is trying, as I say, to develop a crown in cannons or in those spheres where no one has authorized it to do anything, at least by treaty. The Union is at a crossroads right now, and we are starting a discussion on this. I hope this will be a serious discussion, not just that, I'm sorry, talking half-ideological truths about, for example. climate and then fit into this economy. And at the end, you won't be able to use... I don't know what, but the light bulbs have already been banned. This is how ideology enters the economy and then into everyday life. We've been through this before, ladies and gentlemen, but it wasn't the system's name. Let's not let it get back to us, at least let's tell the truth, let's talk about how it is. [[Thank you...]] And at the very end... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...I will be forced, Mr. Marshal, to eat only vegetables. You're on your own. Is that what he's imagining? [[No.]] Yeah, me neither. And here we go, ladies and gentlemen. I don't know what to call it, but it's a complete ban on meat. [[Mr. Senator...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u11	Thank you very much. Please take the floor... [[Mr. Senator, there was fascism in addition to communism.]] [[Voice from the room: Next to each other...]] Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich. Here you go, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u12	Mr. Marshal, it's not gonna be five minutes, it's gonna be 1 autocorrection and 2 other corrections. I've spoken from memory, and I'm trying to be precise. Namely, 58,85% participated in the 2003 accession referendum. Citizens, 77.45% It was all for that. These are the figures from 2003. They show what the sovereign at that time thought about the project of Poland's accession to the European Union. In the belief of many, I think that in the opinion of the vast majority of those who voted for Poland's accession to the European Union, it was a project of historical importance, one that can be compared with events such as. Lublin Union or regaining independence by Poland in 1918 Now it's a follow-up. Currently 88% Poles in some surveys and 91% in other surveys, in these forks we are located, is in favour of staying Poland in the European Union. This is the voice of the sovereign, and that voice must be reckoned with. All actions that lead to the removal of Poland from the legal space of the European Union are anti-Polish actions, they not only threaten the European Union as a single legal space, but also are anti-Polish actions, it must be said clearly. It must also be made clear that a Polish citizen cannot have only part of the rights that an Austrian, Irish, French or Spanish citizen has. Poles have the full right to have all the rights granted under the Treaties to citizens of the Member States of the European Union. Meanwhile, what's been going on lately I was talking about rhetoric before, but it's not just rhetoric. This is to deprive Poles of their share of belonging to the European Union of their rights and freedoms. Of course, this is also against the constitution. The so-called judgment of the so-called Constitutional Court of Mrs Przyłębska proves that Poles want to deprive themselves of some of these rights. Because what else is questioning by this puppet art. 19 the Treaty on European Union, which talks about protecting the legal security of citizens? The protection of the legal security of citizens takes place through independent judges, independent courts and other institutions, thus undermining the Article. 19 in this so-called judgment is nothing but an attempt to deprive Poles of some of those rights which are held by citizens of other European Union countries. And this is the current policy, and I will remind you: contrary to opinion 88 to 91% Poles who are in favour of further Poland's membership in the European Union because they want to exercise the rights assigned to them in the Constitution and guaranteed by Poland's membership in the European Union. They want to use it, they're entitled to it because they're a sovereign. And this is the voice of the sovereign, who has been constantly referred to in government circles in this House over the past six years, but by falsifying this vote. Similarly, other aspects of Poland's presence in the European Union are being falsified. I will argue with only one way, although it would be worth doing it with everyone, because the controversy with demagogy is only possible through facts. It has been said here that the Union has failed in the fight against COVID. Well, I'd like to remind you... I am sending back to my text from May last year in the Wyborcza Gazeta, where I summarized all the first actions of the European Union in response to the pandemic. The European Union reacted immediately. The evacuation action undertaken at that time by the European Union for citizens of the Member States of the European Union outside the EU, which was also available to Polish citizens, was proof of this. The mobilisation of the RescUE Fund for support to the needy citizens at the time was also proof of this. Finally, this was proved by the agreement to mobilise those funds which were granted to Member States, including Poland, under the Structural Funds for the first impact, the fight against the epidemic of Coronavirus. These were decisions taken by the European Union immediately, and the vaccines followed... [[Thank you, Senator...]] These facts call into question the idea that the Union failed in its fight against COVID, although it did not have such competence. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u13	Thank you. And please take the floor of Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! Well, Senator Czerwinski's voice provoked me to speak. Mr. Senator, there's no LGBT ideology, it just doesn't exist. There are people. And they've always been, always called different times of history. Some periods of history are a very good time for them, e.g. ancient Greece, and some of these were very difficult times, e.g. communist times or fascist times. It was different, but it was never an ideology that was fought against people. And now that you're talking about fighting ideology, you're really fighting people too. The fact that they have better times, they can get together, they can demonstrate, they can fight for their rights, that's very good. Calling it ideology is wrong. This has been shown in some way to some of our regional governments, who had to withdraw from those disgusting resolutions that really referred to the segregation of people. I'd rather we didn't go back in the Senate because... whoever was supposed to back out, back out. Let's leave it, let's make it a step in the right direction, not refer to it again, as if nothing happened, as if the statements that were still in force at the time were still in force. The senator also complains about the Union as a socialist organisation. Well, as a socialist, I'm very happy that there's such an organization. And in general, I am pleased that in many countries ideas are being introduced that can be called socialist. I regret that this does not work in Poland. I mean, for example. Scandinavian countries with their health care, with their education, with their public services, etc., but not only Scandinavian. Many Western countries, to which we have always sought the level of development, in spite of appearances, make sure that this redistribution of the goods that are produced is, as far as possible, fair. And if this is what the European Union does, then so be it and be called a socialist organisation. Although, of course, it is not, in my mind, at all, but it is not a charge. Don't blame it, because it's rather commendable. Senator, one more thing. Well, I can't keep that from you either, and it's about COVID-19. Mr. Senator, a little over a year ago, in May last year, there was this current that I called phenomenamism. He was represented at the beginning by Mr Horała, who said how phenomenally Poland dealt with the coronavirus in May last year. Then there was a statement that the virus didn't need to be scared anymore, because he's weakened, he's already harmless, so we can go to the elections and so on. Later: total lack of preparation for the next wave of coritos, total lack of hospital preparation, lack of oxygen reducers, lack of oxygen alone, lack of basic drugs, chaos in the formation of covid troops, hospitals learned about it from day to day, etc. Later, in November last year, it was said that we could smile a little, and then there were a huge number of deaths, a huge number of diseases. Then on Valentine's Day there was the opening of ski lifts, the World Cup in Zakopane, and the British variant had already reached us, already spread. We could say for so long, for a long time: the greatest number of excess deaths we have seen, of course these statements at the beginning of the epidemic... Mr. Senator mentioned what was the reaction in the Union, and we had statements about ice in our panties, that we shouldn't be so concerned that we would be able to control it. Maybe I talk too much about this in the context of the European Union, but medicine is that we have to stick very closely to the facts, because if we don't learn from what happened, other people will die and it will be very bad again. That is why, even for ethical reasons, when we are to praise ourselves for our conduct, for being better than the European Union, I must speak and protest because the objective situation was different. Finally, I'm going to say it in general. You've been in charge for six years and there's been some processes. Unfortunately, there is also a process that can result in polexit. Let's hope it's fear of height, hopefully they're wrong, those who say so. But this is the work of your governments. You rule, you maintain our relations with the European Union on some basis, solve problems in some way, represent Poland, go there, talk, discuss and set conditions. I ask you, however, that you do not go too far so as to by chance not to cross the line behind which there is actually polyxit, for which there is a conviction of the Polish society that we might be better off outside the Union, because often in your statements, perhaps not exactly yours, but in the vicinity of your political groups, such statements fall. This is something unacceptable for Poland, located between Germany and Russia, for Poland with such a history. Please refrain from this policy and simply be a full member of the European Union, not a country that thinks about whether we would be better off outside the Union. Don't think that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u15	Thank you, Senator. I'd like the floor of Senator Danuta Jazłowicka. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal...]] You're welcome. Let's go to the podium. [[Excuse me, but I'd like to be on the spot, Mr. Marshal, because I very briefly...]] Well, we'll see.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u16	In today's debate, we have heard that it is the European Union that needs to be repaired, not Poland. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that during this debate, only during this debate, the penalty imposed on Poland for the lack of safeguards concerning the Tour was PLN 1 million... [[To the rule of law.]] Within... Sorry about the rule of law. It has raised 1 million PLN in these tens of minutes when we are debating about the European Union, and someone has told us that we have to fix Poland... sorry that we have to fix the Union. We're supposed to fix Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u17	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Jazłowiecka has submitted her speech to the minutes. Well, I don't know what it looks like from the rule book 'cause the senator spoke. The discussion is closed. Are you the Minister of... Oh, the Minister would like to speak again and comment on the speeches. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u18	Yes, I think there are many words to be said here. I think it would be wrong if I didn't respond to them. I wouldn't want to leave that impression... I think it would be worth looking at this debate after a while to observe, each for your own use, how easily you are doing, more and more easily in my opinion, with the aim of abstracting from the topic of this debate and what is the basis of this debate. This debate is based on a more than 100-page document, which informs the government about Polish policy during the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union. I've heard very little about it. The only substantive voice on the opposition bench... [[Mr. Marshal...]] ...was about climate issues. [[Voice from the room: Don't bother.]] [[Senator, I'm sorry. The Minister has the right to comment on the debate and that is what he is doing.]] [[That kind of criticism...]] [[Excuse me, Senator. Please don't disturb me.]] [[But, Mr. Marshal, he has no right to lecture us.]] [[Yes.]] No, it's just my opinion, it's an offer. There were words here... The only voice relevant to this report was the correlation between what is happening in the Union and what is happening in national energy transition policy. Of course, I wanted to meet the expectations of the marshal and speak briefly. In fact, I've shortened the points, but this jackpot is one of the most important. That's what I was talking about. To answer the question of Senator Ujazdowski, who asked about this correlation, what we are doing in the country, I will say two things. The Government of Law and Justice is a government that adopted the first strategic document, which assumes the Polish path of transformation. This document is called Poland's energy policy until 2040. It is the only document that assumes a path of transformation in line with Polish expectations, social and economic conditions. The pace of this transformation over the past 6 years has been the highest since 2008, when we entered the path of climate change. This question is very good, but I suggest you study the answer to this question, because the recipient was completely confused. Delays in this matter, which today actually result in a growing cost of transformation, have increased at other times. We're making up for it. In this opening speech, I also talked about the role of tempo... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Do not disturb.]] [[Voice from the room: No culture.]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, please call to order.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u19	Senator Lover, please don't disturb me. [[Only at the request of the marshal.]] Thank you very much. Just respect that. Minister, continue. And I remind you that I'm here for intervention. [[Voice from the courtroom:... your marshal.]] I'm the intervention guy. Listen to the minister quietly, because you're disturbing...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u20	But much more important in this debate was the fact, which was confirmed twice by the opposition's main representative in this debate, the fact quite obvious and visible. It is about bringing these 6 months of Polish policy in the European Union to one topic, to a toxic dispute about the rule of law. And I'd like to say a little more about that. You may be surprised, of course, that Poland is actually willing to exercise its treaty rights, procedural rights and defend its rights, not only legislative or political, but also political, constitutional. It's a choice like any other, but it's worth noting. But there's something else that's most important about all of this. If you could ever reduce the Polish policy in the Union, the Polish presence in the Union, only to the toxic dispute over the rule of law, you could wake up in a situation where the percentages cited here are 73%, 75%, 88% They're just a memory. If Poles believed what you are trying to convince, that Poland's presence in the Union is reduced to a toxic dispute over the rule of law, a large group of Poles might find this not a comfortable place. And we are fighting for the Union to be a comfortable place for Poles, so that Poles feel subjective in the Union, so that they feel that someone will defend our rights as well. I think it's extremely important that despite this toxic dispute over the rule of law remind you all the time... And I am trying to do this not only in this document, but also in this debate. It is necessary to show the synergy of interests, the consistency of interests of Poland and the European Union, because if we forget about it, if we put it aside, many Poles might falsely consider that it might be better to get rid of this toxic problem, which is imported 100% into the dispute about the rule of law. Of course, the cases you mentioned are recorded in this information. They are recorded in the same way and in the same proportion as it should look. If this were information on proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union, we would have a completely different document before us, and there would also be other cases there than those which the State wishes to bring up all the time, for example. the fact that Poland has won a dispute against the European Commission, against Germany, about energy law in relation to the OPAL pipeline, that is the gas pipeline Nord Stream 1. Poland, thanks to the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, has caused energy solidarity to cease to be a political paradigm, a political slogan and to begin to be a legal requirement. It was Poland that, in some ways, during the Portuguese Presidency, caused us to defend the tax on large-area trade before the Court of Justice of the European Union. Only that information is not about it, it is not about dozens of proceedings in which we actively participate. This information is about Polish policy in the European Union. And for the sake of Polish membership of the European Union, please do not reduce the subject matter of Poland in the Union to a toxic dispute about the rule of law, because this dispute is going on, and we will see how it ends. But this is not the whole picture of Polish membership. If Poles believe in such a thing, such as it is said here, forgery of Poland's presence in the Union, these similar high rates of support can only be a memory, and this will be very bad news for Poland. On the basis of a simple mathematical operation, the State should note that Law and Justice are part of this pro-European majority. If we're talking about percentages like 73, 88, 91, there's no other way. Only after 15 years of membership is the question much more serious: what membership Is that what we're talking And I think that this information, although in fact, I agree, is being considered with delay, but it is already a matter of the choice of the term by the Senate, should serve that purpose, i.e. It's not about the question of... It's the question of which membership We're in the middle of Because after 15 years of membership it is worth asking ourselves about the quality of this membership, not just whether we like it or not, because it is a childish question, it is a question that we could ask ourselves 15 or 20 years ago. And today is the time to be specific about membership. And this particular one is expressed in this information, in this report It is more than 100 pages of accurate information plus annexes to which the State did not in principle refer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u21	Thank you, Minister. I ignore, Minister, that your speech was very controversial, too... However, there is no discussion here. And I'd love to comment on that. But you can't blame yourself for discussing more than just your report. Which should actually be considered within one month of the end of the Presidency And that this discussion concerned not only your report but also the fundamental issues of the Union, Poland's relationship to the Union and vice versa. You are the Minister for European Affairs and the senators have the right to use your presence here. Thank you, Minister, for presenting the information. I note that the Senate took note of information for the Polish Sejm and Senate about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period of January, June 2021, chaired by Portugal in the Council of the European Union. We proceed with the examination of the item on the 20th agenda: the Law amending the Law on Higher Education and Science and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 530 and the report of the committee In print No 530 A. I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Wojciech Necessary, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u22	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! On 26 October, a meeting of the Scientific, Education and Sports Committee on the Law amending the Law on Higher Education and Science and certain other laws took place. I ask you, the law that has been examined is that it is intended to make the conditions for universities to obtain permission to set up studies preparing for the profession of doctor, dentist. As a result, there should be an increase in the number of universities that will be able to educate future doctors and dentists. In addition, the Act introduces solutions for the establishment of a credit institution for medical studies, which is to support students who will study in paid studies. These loans are described in detail in the Act. Loans are to be remitted at a time when the graduate has worked out a certain number of years and will meet certain requirements, including for specific specialisations that are specified. These loans will be cancelled. In addition, there are a number of more detailed, implementing provisions amending the names of institutions and bodies, etc., etc. Plus, that bill was all about it. During the committee's deliberations, a discussion was held which was generally based on whether such changes were needed or not and in what direction they should take place. No substantive corrections were submitted to change the content of the bill substantially. 17 legislative amendments were tabled, improving naming, adapting to other provisions, etc. At the time of the vote Committee unanimously supported the amendments. The Act was addressed to work in the Senate with a recommendation for the adoption of the attached Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u23	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Alexander Swed. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u24	Mr. Senator, I have a question: was there a discussion at the committee's meeting about how much the number of places in medical schools has increased in recent years, especially in the medical, dental and medical fields?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u25	There was a discussion about it. It was suggested that this process was progressing. The intention of this law is that medical universities in the current form and in the current number actually no longer have such reserves to take even more students to significantly increase the group of applicants for the title of doctor, dentist. That's why it's a solution. Of course, it was also criticised as one that could reduce the level of teaching, hindering the creation of such departments in general. Although the universities are ready for it. But such a small number of doctors, which is now, and the age structure of doctors, so very large groups, especially specialists, will retire, force them to retire. I agree with that. This type of activity, which may disturb the education process a little bit, because the creation of a new university without a certain history, without a certain tradition, is of course a difficult process and can have an impact on the level of education. But here we indicated that studies are just one element of doctor training. Then there's a post-graduate internship, then there's a specialization, and if you correlate what's going on in college, with what's going on later, it's probably not going to happen, and I don't think we're going to be watching. For my part, I can add that when it comes to the theoretical part of medical studies, it will certainly be a problem, it will be difficult when it comes to science such as biochemistry, biophysics, anatomy, histology, physiology, etc., etc. But when it comes to the practical part, that is, clinical activities, who knows if doctors after these universities will not have more experience, because thanks to the fact that they will be directed in smaller groups to hospitals where they will be taking patient classes with them, at least they will not get away from those doctors who are trained in large centres. So that it was mentioned and hence the indication that there must be another stage. What could be done was, let's say, done, although there is a danger here due to the fact that many students in Poland, to which attention was also paid during the committee's deliberations, are trained in English. It's a big group. And these people, unfortunately, can leave. Credits, which, as if they were connected to Poland, are also a solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u26	Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u27	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! It's a simple question. The goal is clear, we want to develop more doctors quickly and efficiently. And now there are two methods. One, we use a base that is. I understand you're saying it's impossible to increase the number of educated people on this base that is. Two: we create a new base, i.e. buildings for education, staff You have to bring her in or she's gonna commute. Clinics. The question is what's easier. What do you think's gonna work? In my opinion, the first process is better, i.e. looking for reserves, increasing the number of people educated where there are opportunities. Of course, time is a limiter here, you can't stretch 24 hours. However, creating a new center that would educate doctors where there is no experience associated with it, that is, I think, a bit of a dwarf idea. Before this center clots, before it simply takes on routines, because you have to have some routine, some pragmatism of action, it's going to take too long, and we're fighting here with time.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u28	Thank you. Mr. Senator... I'm not talking to the rapporteur, I'm talking to the senators asking questions. The questions must be within 1 minute and must be clear. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u29	Mr. Senator, we're starting a little general discussion, and this is the committee's report. That's what I feel, but of course I'll answer. I think we have to go one way or the other. I don't want to talk about negligence because it's a word... It's just that the shortcomings that exist today have come out very much in the midst of the pandemic. After all, we see that temporary hospitals that are created would be a very good solution, but they cannot be, because there is no one to fill these hospitals. People are being treated there, but only half, one third. We treat patients in general hospitals, district hospitals, voivodships, etc. We have to do it there because we can't strip off from the staff of voivodship or county hospitals, redirect it to temporary. As far as possible, it's done. There is a really big need to increase the number of doctors and dentists. The academic centres that exist would also have to absorb those hospitals that are non-academic. Whole cities... In fact, all hospitals would have to turn into academic centers so that the number of students could be increased. The day has about an hour, there are many assistants there, we direct several or several students to one doctor, then this doctor stops working as a doctor because he becomes a person who teaches. Of course, this can happen in these centres, but only to a small extent. In academic centres, but not medical centres, such a thing can be done easier. In addition, medical departments have been established in recent years, e.g. in Opole or in other cities. They're working, and they're about to release the first alumni. We don't see any danger here. I would like to return to the fact that there has been an increase in the number of students in academic institutions. It's not like this trial didn't happen. He has come, but from both, let's say, medically and from higher education, it is a belief that this process is actually coming to an end, and that it is at risk of the quality of education. Continuous increase in the number of students in universities may already be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u30	Thank you. Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u31	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, actually, I'd like to ask you about the previous question. Since you are saying that you discussed these limits at the committee meeting, I would like to ask how much this limit is now. Do you have that knowledge? If not, I will redirect this question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u32	Well, I don't want to make a mistake so I won't speak. I'm sure the Minister has current records.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u33	Thank you very much. There are no more questions. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Sławomir Gadomski like to speak? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u34	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Briefly. I would like to draw attention to actually one most important aspect for us. Because here, the senators' questions were going this way, too. This bill is designed to create new opportunities, but we are also not fooled that it solves all fundamental problems. Indeed, we have already travelled a long way, the admission limits for new students have increased significantly from around 6 000 200 in 2015 to more than 9 000 today. This is almost a 50% increase in the number of newly accepted students. The fact is that these traditional universities, medical universities subordinate to the Minister of Health, are already using their resources. They are already de facto reporting to us that their human resources, infrastructure, cooperation with the clinical base is indeed exhausted. Although still, well, they actively cooperate with us, they increase these limits. The bill we've been working on for months has enabled us to move again. We've increased admission limits for nearly 600 places. As if, let's call it, under this bill discussed here. We have high hopes for this bill. Hopes are related to two aspects. First of all, we see, together with the medical university rectors, that there is a fairly large group of students who today cannot afford to pay for their studies in medical sciences. It's a large expense of PLN 35.40 thousand per year cost medical studies. So even compared to other directions, this is several times more. But, secondly, we see some potential for people who haven't really been able to get into college free of charge, and who haven't decided yet. And often people on the ranking list go to college paid for. We see a lot of interest, because a lot of people, lots of young students or people willing to study medicine. He's calling us, the Ministry, just questioning this bill. But this law has this aspect that Senator Necessary has not yet spoken about here, which is extremely important to us. She introduces a loyalty mechanism, another loyalty mechanism in the Polish education system, a mechanism that is that we really want to finance... We want to give the possibility of a loan for a study of PLN 200.250 thousand, this is the amount we are talking about. And if only later the graduate decides to work in the Polish health care system, in the institution which carries out public services and works in Poland for 10 years, this loan can be fully waived. This loyalty mechanism, really the first in the Polish education system, because in no other direction of study we have such and possibilities, and requirements. Of course, it's optional. It gives me the guarantee that these doctors will actually stay in Poland. Probably less migration today than it was a few, several years ago, but we're still seeing this problem on some scale. Well, because I'm gonna say that when I go forward... Indeed, the link between the write-off from the state budget and the fact that these people will be in Poland and, moreover, will be realised Because this is the second necessary specialization in priority areas, i.e. those where we have the greatest shortages, those who care most about the Minister of Health... Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u35	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, please. Remotely, I understand. [[Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: Good morning. I am, Mr. Marshal.]] Oh, there you are. Excuse me. You're sitting here... You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u36	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! Minister! I have a question about the amendments we know about, made by the senators. It is about enlargement, the possibility of training doctors through state higher vocational schools. From the information that the Minister provided, the information that you also consulted with the rectors of medical universities, after this change of the project, the amendment of the bill, also consultations with the General Medical Council... You said you wouldn't offer such an extension, you wouldn't want to do it. That is why I am asking the Minister if you will agree to extend the possibility of training, however, to those state-owned vocational schools.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u37	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u38	Senator, I haven't seen this amendment yet, so I think I'll probably refer to it at the committee meeting. The discussion on education in state higher vocational schools or at all about relaxing these formal criteria also took a very long time at the level of the Council of Ministers. And frankly, different views, the views of the Minister of Health, the views of the Minister of Education and Science were dissatisfied. In general, even this week at the Council of Ministers, this subject was raised and indeed certain directional decisions, which, I understand, this amendment is likely to be implemented, have been indicated. If I see her, of course I'll take the final stand. I'd like to point out one thing. Whether it is a formal criterion, the entry criterion will allow a wider group of universities, because there were also various amendments in the Sejm in this respect, extending, limiting... Well, it's just an entry criterion, it's just enabling the application and allowing it to enter a formal process at all. From our perspective, the whole accreditation procedure, the whole path of obtaining accreditation, to educate doctors and educate dentists, remains the same. These quality requirements are very high. We've got some applications open today. I say: we, although it may be more the Ministry of Science, but I say so together. Some open proposals that have not received this final accreditation for 3 years and are still being completed. But certain formal and substantive requirements must be met and these universities will not be allowed until they are met. The formation of a medical course is not only a long-term process but also a costly process. So the question is how small universities, how state-owned vocational schools will be able to meet such a challenge at all. I assume it will be extremely difficult, if not impossible. And it seems that even if this formal criterion allows such applications to be made available to new universities, it will really require a great deal of work on the part of these entities, and a great deal of infrastructure-related work, medical simulation centers, providing teaching staff, cooperation with clinical hospitals. These seem to be very difficult projects.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u39	Thank you. Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u40	Thank you very much. Minister, I have such questions. In other studies, we don't do that. I mean these loans and this loyalty principle, let's say. Are you, therefore, concerned about the charge of some inequality against the law that may be raised? 'Cause why does a doctor have to work it off, and other jobs don't? I understand that somewhere else we're just not gonna bring it in, but it's gonna be... Aren't you afraid that for legal reasons, somebody will ever carry it? And the second question, too, is going a little bit in that direction. Such a doctor, who will be covered by this loan and all of this, will go to work, and in this work various things happen, there are different amounts of earnings, etc., doctors negotiate, strike, well, sometimes, but he will in a sense be deprived of it. It will probably be that if something like this happens, he will have to return the money, etc., etc. Isn't there any concern that there will be some accusations about these workers' rights, that they will be limited by such an approach to the occupation, simply to work, to certain workers' rights that belong to all workers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u41	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u42	Thank you. These are difficult questions, really, but maybe one at a time. First... Probably more appropriate to answer the question of other directions would be the Minister of Science. But, of course, this discussion was going on. And, both in the drafting of the law and in the course of further parliamentary work, there were no such reservations, despite the fact that there was such a good logical course, whether on the part of the Government's Legislative Centre, or on the part of our partners from the Ministry of Science, or on the part of the legislative offices of the Sejm and the Senate. We don't identify that risk either. This is a benefit. It can be said that these benefits are being introduced in different areas and have not been such a controversy to this day. Let me give you an example. For example, the financing of the remuneration of resident doctors. There is also a voucher of loyalty for the fact that later they will decide to work in the country. This is also a benefit which is not directed to other professional groups in Poland or is only marginally used. So I think that such, I do not want to say, unequal treatment, but such preferred treatment probably in the Polish education system we have some. And I'm not assuming that this mechanism. If it's true, it'll work. It will not be able to be used in other directions. I think that this is already for discussion for the future, and above all it is the responsibility of the Minister of Science and Higher Education. About the second question... Mr. Senator, I think these concerns are up to date. First of all, we already have those loyalty mechanisms that I was just talking about, but we're not pointing out to this doctor the place of work. He has the freedom to choose, he can choose for any healthcare provider in Poland, provided that he carries out public-funded services. It may be a private entity, provided it carries out benefits financed by the National Health Fund and this doctor will participate in the implementation of these benefits. I think it's hard to talk about such a little virtual situation that he's gonna be like this, let's call it I understood, perhaps mistakenly, the senator's statement A slave to one place of work that he will have to pursue his professional path there. No, he's still free to choose, and he can, like today, decide to work in those entities he cares about.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u43	Thank you very much. There are no more questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Sławomir Gadomski: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u44	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to speak because this matter concerns me in many dimensions. I'm a doctor who works at the hospital. I also worked in an academic facility. I also worked in the emergency room and in various other places. I know this system from all sides. I'm the head of the hospital in Częstochowa. And I'm not hiding that this case concerns me in a certain way as well. In Częstochowa, work is being done to establish a medical faculty at the University of Częstochowa. Jan Długosz, a university of humanities, who is already leading medical courses. And right now, there's been a lot of work going on for a couple of years to set up a doctor's department. This work is supported by President Krzysztof Matyjaczyk, who is the left-wing President, Senator Majer, who is the Senator of PiS, me and everyone who is somehow involved in this department. It is simply for such a center as Częstochowa a transpolitical matter that connects, not divides. And there really are a lot of people of good faith who are trying to help with this idea. And, of course, you could use a lot of arguments about why so, why not. I will quote another argument that in a city like Częstochowa And there are many such cities in Poland. Well, many people study medicine. They go to college in different cities, to academic cities, and they study there. But medicine is a field that often kind of drags people where they study. And the fact that people from Częstochowa go to study somewhere is very good, but the fact that they do not return later to Częstochowa or to other cities is already a bit worse, because we are watching a situation in which, really, when it comes to medical staff, large academic centres have, you can say, an excess of it, at least in some areas, in some areas, and a huge shortage exists in centres maybe not small but smaller. The way to reverse this is also to create such medical departments. The point that is very important is that... you know what the development of your academic career is like in academic institutions. It is often held back. It is often held back by the fact that... Well, young doctors do doctorates, habilitation, but at some point there is a stop, because there is a cathedral, there is a professor, etc., etc., and I will not dwell on it. In any case, we see that there are many willing doctors, really very good specialists that are lacking in such smaller centres who would gladly move to them and bring medicine, let's say, higher quality to those centres that are often deprived of this medicine for precisely such reasons that it is concentrated in academic centres. And that's something that's really needed. We need the influx of people who will be chiefs, who will be operators, who will introduce new methods that they have learned. They will have an academic approach to this and they will want to develop it, they will want to teach young doctors. And these doctors, if they feel they can learn it in these centres, they'll stay in them. Because a young doctor today In addition to financial matters, of course, to working conditions. It puts great emphasis on its development and wants to be where new methods are used, where these new methods can be introduced. In turn, in these centres there are many patients who require such methods, they require that they be taken care of. This will really help to improve the situation of all, both patients and doctors working in hospitals or scientific staff or aspiring to be scientific, which in these academic centres, due to certain density, does not really see the future for itself. So I see a lot of pros here. I would like to bring up another subject. We are trying in any way to increase the number of these doctors, e.g. Bringing them from abroad, from across the eastern border, but here we have reservations. on the issue of science, on how to acquire specialization. Well, if that's the case, then really, we'd better create more places in Poland and train doctors in Poland. This level's gonna be higher anyway, I'm sure. So, in conclusion, I will say this: despite some obvious dangers and difficulties that the Minister also mentioned, e.g. Not every college that may seem to set up this department today will be able to set it up... And that's what's gonna happen, really, to these departments, isn't gonna be that big a deal. But let us not make this difficult for those who really see it as their only chance to maintain certain branches, maintain a certain activity, and in the future To develop this activity. Well, let's not make it harder, let's not spoil the atmosphere, let's not create laws that make it impossible. Of course, if we mean those vocational schools that at some point in the Seym were withdrawn... Perhaps it was a step too far, because the level in medicine must always be high. But let's not create barriers, let's try to help, let's try to make sure that really everyone, as I described earlier, can benefit from this. As a doctor and as a hospital director, I strongly support the project that we are debating today, and I ask everyone to support it, because I also take it as a post-political project, simply to improve something that has not been corrected enough for many years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u45	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Józef Zając, remotely. Senator Hare? [[Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Maybe I'll start with that general remark. Well, while listening to the discussion and the course of this point all the time, I must say that I am a little upset and confused by a few statements and conclusions resulting from these statements. Well, here's the situation. For more than 20 years I have been associated with professional universities, in which I believed the sense of creation and existence. I went to one of them as a rector, still in the process of its creation, to a university in Lublin Chełm, from the Polish Academy of Sciences. All my friends, as they say, knocked on the head and said, "What are you doing, man? Why are you going there? It's not gonna make any sense. It's a lot of fun. The greatest difficulty for the entire 20 years that I have had in developing one seems to me to be from the best university leading a very specific direction that no one has ever dreamed of, i.e. Airplane piloting, combined with the fact that graduates as engineers get all the licenses required to get on the plane and fly. In the ministry, when I was running errands, ladies from some of the rooms would come out and show me their finger as this strange man. They probably used other words as well. Who wanted to create aviation. Today, the university is equipped with its own airport and provides training for pilots and helicopter pilots on the largest scale in Poland. Of course, at the moment, the university is working on the establishment of a medical department. Why? We have a Medical University in Lublin, whose majority of graduates finish it in this direction with English and it is rather difficult to expect them to supply our hospitals, clinics and go with the help of our citizens. The shortage of doctors is so huge that I am very surprised, especially after the Minister's statement that we will be putting barriers, demands here... Of course, you can even put up a six-metre fence... We won't let them. We weren't allowed to go to engineering school once, to master's studies. Today we have a master's degree and engineering studies and no one complains about the so-called. level. The word "levels" in academic discussions is the word "tracks." If you don't have any other arguments, you start talking about the level. The shortage of doctors is so severe that today we're talking about how we're not gonna let ourselves be, that there's only gonna be old medical universities, that's fornication, that's what I'd call it. It's very bad if you hear something like that in the Senate. I believe that these universities, which have gained some power, developed from professional universities, should also create medical courses, because they are not as extra, and they are not as unusual as the academic community of medical universities is trying to create. It's also one of the worse things. I had such an event when Minister Gowin was on the opposite side, that when I said at the rector conference that in Poland we were primarily lacking doctors and nurses, and it was nice a few years ago, then of course I was judged from honor and belief that I do not know the data that we have too many doctors, we have too many nurses and there is no reason to consider extending higher education at these specialties or in these directions. As a matter of fact, we were hit by a pandemic, it turned out that the demand is actually being met at 60%. No more. And that's the worse point for me that came up in the discussion: we won't let ourselves, we won't let you, generally not toss. You can't do that. I am very pleased to hear from Dr. Necessary at the end that, in fact, in that region, they are also thinking of setting up a medical course at one of the well-developed professional universities. In a short time, not all of them, but those that will qualify will become dorms. And until recently, the dorms were medical schools, but they built a propaganda environment around them, became a doughnut in butter, and they said that there could be nothing outside. It's tragic. For this reason, I ask you very much to think about how we can provide adequate training to meet the needs of our citizens. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u47	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Grzegorz Czelej Also remotely. [[Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo... hello?]] We're on the line, Senator, you're very well heard.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u48	Sorry, again. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In my speech, I would like to draw attention to the phenomenon that occurs in Poland in a much smaller percentage than in medical universities in the west of Europe, namely English division. They are students who come to Poland for paid studies, are educated according to the international system, 99% They leave Poland, then work mostly in the West of Europe, to a large extent in the United States. I would like to point out that first of all, the english division in Poland is even a strong word, which is scandalously small in relation to it in medical universities in Germany, France and Great Britain. The role of the money these students bring to the university is underestimated, for the cities they live in, and they leave there a lot of money. We observe this in Lublin, where we have the largest English division in the country. We see the significant impact of the money that this group leaves, and the impact on the city, the real estate market, the number of assistants employed at the university, the need to conduct classes in English and everything involved, the need to learn about the international program. These are influences and financials, and to the university, and to the city, and to the development of individuals at the university. The question I would like to ask the Ministry is the following. I would like to ask you to consider whether we should gain more English division graduates who finish Polish in English, go to other countries in western Europe or to the United States, practically not stay with us. We have well-educated doctors by the same assistants and at the same universities as Polish students, and we release them from Poland at the moment when Polish graduates, Polish doctors, are acquired in the west of Europe. And from each year of Polish students we lose some people. In my opinion, we should support the development of english division in Poland and consider the mechanism of obtaining doctors or stopping doctors and creating them such a career path that they could, wanted to remain in Poland. Please consider this aspect in medical training of doctors and dentists in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u49	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, also remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I wanted to speak on the same subject, but my previous speaker beat me a little bit. I also believe that the training of medical staff should go first and foremost towards stopping graduates in Poland, so that our Polish market is attractive to them in the field of specialisation and in the matter of working in our Polish health care at all. Of course, higher education institutions, which are already, have extended admissions to medical and dental departments, while I have reports from students, from young doctors, that this has resulted in a lower quality of teaching. And so on. The groups that were so far 15 are now 25 people. And it's not like we in Bielsko-Biała have an ambition to create a medical faculty at the Technical and Humanities Academy. We would like to see in our capital Podbeskidzia, as in other cities, e.g. In Olsztyn or Bydgoszcz, there were such directions, but it must go at the same time with the high quality of teaching. We in Poland now have a problem that people with qualifications work below their education, flee to private health care, do not feed hospitalizations, do not educate residents. This was, of course, the result of the law on the lowest remuneration, by virtue of which specialists received 19 PLN... This law was also practiced in the Senate. The problem is huge and it is not so that increasing the scale of admissions or increasing the number of universities We're gonna solve this problem. We need to change everything in the postgraduate education of doctors at all, so that specializations can be done in Poland and that later, as Senator Czelej said, there will be no exodus of these doctors abroad. Poland should be an attractive labour market. I, like Senator Necessary, am in favour of setting up this department in Bielsko-Biała, but it should be a transparent procedure, one that will serve our young people who choose this difficult profession and will then be able to stay and work for example. Here in Podbekdzie. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u51	Thank you very much, Senator. And that's where we ended our speeches. The list of speakers has been exhausted. For the sake of order, I inform you that the senators Alexander Szwed, Marek Martynowski, Mieczysław Golba, Jolanta Hibner, Danuta Jazłowiecka and Ryszard Majer made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. I'm also informing you... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me, I have a note here... Secretary's mistake, I'm so sorry. Senator Martynowski has tabled a legislative proposal. I inform you that the legislative proposals were submitted by Senator Wojciech Necessary, Senator Wind, Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Senator Bober and Senator Martynowski, as I have already mentioned. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Health Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item twenty of the first agenda: the Law amending certain laws in order to improve the consistency of the terminology of the legal system. The text of the Act is contained in print No 514 and the report of the committee In print No 514 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u52	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! On behalf of the Legislative Commission, I present a report on the Act amending certain laws adopted by the Sejm on 1 October 2021 in order to improve the consistency of the terminology of the legal system. This law was addressed to the committee by the Senate Marshal on 4 October. It was examined by the Commission at its meeting on 26 October. What is the essence of the bill? At the committee meeting, she was discussed by Counselor Beata Mandylis on behalf of the Legislative Bureau. The purpose of the Act is, to a fundamental extent, to implement the proposals contained in the petition addressed to the Sejm, which have been consummated in the amendments concerning several acts. 11 amendments are designed to adapt the terminology in these laws to the current legal situation and 3 other amendments contain substantive changes. These amendments were added after the first reading of the project and aimed at adding new provisions relating to the inclusion in the list and possession of a doctor's degree in law and the introduction of the law on the prosecution of a retired prosecutor who has been appointed as a judge to the Law on the Prosecutor's Office. These amendments, together with an amendment on the indication of a local government unit whose authority is competent to carry out administrative executions, as declared without the principle of three readings, go beyond the material scope of the draft law and in the opinion of the Legal Office's representatives result in an infringement of the provisions of the Article. Article 118 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 119 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1st Constitution. The Legislative Office has therefore proposed that the provision governing the situation of the retired prosecutor appointed as a judge be removed from the law as completely unrelated to that law, and this opinion of the Legislative Office be supported by the members of the Legislative Commission, although representatives of the government, specifically Mr Tomasz Szafrański, had a different position in this regard. During the discussion at the committee meeting, there was also doubt whether this provision was a provision on specific facts. Taking this into account, on the basis of the discussion at the committee meeting on 26 October 2021, I asked the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General, about information about the retired prosecutors who have been quoted in my letter They were appointed as Judges, as at 26 October, with an indication of the courts to which they were appointed. I received a letter in response, which I will read: "In reply to the letter of 26 October 2021 requesting information on the number of retired prosecutors who have been appointed as judge (...) I kindly inform you that no retired prosecutor is a judge, a Supreme Court judge or a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. The request, following a statement by a representative of the Legislative Office, which pointed out the formal errors related to this amendment, was a request to delete the wording of the article. 14, voted by 13 votes to 7 against, two senators abstained. In conclusion, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Commission has adopted the Act with 1 amendment, contained in Senate Print No 514 A. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u53	Thank you very much, Senator. Before I give the floor to those who want to ask questions, I will correct one information that was wrong in the scenario. With regard to the previous item on the agenda, the 20th, the Health Committee is not to respond to the proposals put forward, but to the Committee on Science, Education and Sport. That's what I'm trying to straighten out. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Senator Magdalena Loven. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u54	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Mr President, during the committee's deliberations, did we find out where the drop... The effect of the petition committee's work cleans up cases related to the removal from the legal market of laws that are simply no longer in force, references that are no longer in force, i.e. the provisions of individual codes, laws. But there was a drop-in about a state that wasn't there, according to the Minister's reply. I mean, in response to the letter to Minister Ziobra, you got the answer to the question. You didn't ask that question on your own behalf, but on behalf of all the members of the committee. Why we do not allow two sources of remuneration to be paid to a person who, being a retired prosecutor, is also a judge. The fact that there is this provision, introduced between the first and second reading of the law by the government, which today answers that it wanted this change, but there is no actual state to which this matter concerns, is completely incomprehensible to me. Because if there are no prosecutors... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Senator, I would very much like to ask... There's a minute, so...]] I'm sorry. Yes, of course, now, Mrs. Marshal. If there are no retired prosecutors, who are judges, and there is no situation for them to collect remuneration from 2 sources, then why put a provision by the government into the Parliamentary Act?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u55	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u56	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Senator! I, of course, have no information about intentions. As Senator rapporteur, I can present what was the result of working in the Sejm. The first reading of this project took place on 22 July 2021 at the 35th session of the Sejm. The draft was then sent to the Parliamentary Legislative Commission. During the committee's work, a number of changes were made to the project after first reading, e.g. a new editorial unit is added as set out in Article. 14, amending the law on the prosecution's law, introducing new solutions. Their purpose is the obligation of the prosecutor who has been appointed as a judge to resign from his/her pension, and indicates that after the period of his/her position as a judge, the prosecutor shall return by virtue of his/her right to his/her former retirement. And I'll remind you that if someone's called to judge, they have a state of retiring. On 14 September 2021, the Legislative Commission submitted to the Sejm a report requesting the adoption of the draft law submitted in its report. The second reading took place at the Thirty-eighth meeting of the Sejm on 29 September 2021. In the event of one amendment being tabled, the draft was again referred to the committee for the presentation of the report, its position. The work ended with a third reading, which took place on 1 October 2021. Then the Sejm accepted the amendment tabled in the second reading and passed the entire bill. This is the only knowledge I have. Well, that's formal knowledge, based on a seym report and protocols. Today I can say that the essence of this change is not important anyway, because it regulates a hypothetical situation that does not exist in practice, as there are no judges who are prosecutors at rest. And all the more so, that the decision of the Legislative Commission to exclude this provision seems right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u57	Thank you very much. No further questions. The bill was introduced by the Sejm Committee. Mr Marcin Duszek was authorised to present the position of the applicants for the bill. Your MP's not here, so... The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Warchoł is in the courtroom. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: No, thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. [[And I have a question for the Minister.]] Wait a minute, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Magdalena Loven.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u58	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. I will repeat the question to which it was difficult to answer the rapporteur's senator about these intentions of introducing such sound rules in the absence of the facts they are referring, in a manner which is not in line with the correct legislation. I'd like to ask Minister Warchoł about that.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u59	Thank you very much. Minister, you're gonna have to come down here after all. Here you go, on the platform, 'cause maybe there'll be more questions. [[Voice from the room: We will not twist our heads.]] You're welcome to the podium. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: I would prefer from here because we will be here...]] You're welcome to the podium. [[Voice from the hall: We won't twist our heads, because the minister is more comfortable...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u60	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This is a provision that fills the legal gap that has so far taken place. Let me remind you that the D.A.'s Attorney's Law adopted a solution whereby a retired prosecutor may be appointed as judge. This solution is already in force, so there's nothing new here. But there is such a problem that you can at the same time be a retired prosecutor and serve as a judge, which is absurd from the point of view of overlapping these two positions. And that's why the law we're discussing, the one on terminology consistency, removes all kinds of gaps in laws, oversights, internal contradictions, such as. in this case. Therefore, as a government, as a ministry, we welcome the initiative of Members, which also aims to eliminate this internal contradiction. Because a retired prosecutor shouldn't be a judge at the same time and shouldn't be in these two positions. That's all. Retirement is, of course, a kind of retirement, it's not some new function, a third function, it's not some extra, new prosecutor... This is a kind of sui generis, the situation of a retired prosecutor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u61	Thank you. Senator Magdalena Loven.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u62	If that's the case, then... It is common knowledge to serve as a Disciplinary Chamber... no, a function or a judge... as a judge of several prosecutors. Is the state for today that every former prosecutor who is today a judge of the Disciplinary Chamber has resigned before taking the job of a judge of his... well, not a function, just his right to be a retired prosecutor? I ask because this is the question that we have received from the chairman of the committee, President Kwiatkowski, that there is no situation where double remuneration is charged by such a person. Question: Was this the case, or did today's judges and former prosecutors renounced their right to be a retired prosecutor before judging?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u63	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u64	Thank you very much. As I informed President Kwiatkowski in my letter of 27 October, currently no retired prosecutor I'm confirming it. It is neither a judge nor a judge of the Supreme Court nor a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. Did they give up? You're with me from the State's Attorney's Office, with knowledge. If your marshal would allow me, I'd be happy to use my colleague's support here. [[Vice-Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: It's about time, but I have a question.]] Because I don't have that kind of knowledge, I'll be honest with you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u65	I have a question for the Minister. Does this mean that you're assuming that a prosecutor who... Well, if he's a judge, he's relinquishing, and that's clear, he's going to retire as a judge. Do you assume that if a prosecutor who's a judge doesn't have a state of rest, he's just gonna go back to the D.A.'s office?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u66	That's also a question for your D.A., if I may ask. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u67	Thank you. You're welcome, Mr. Prosecutor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u68	Thank you very much. Thomas Szafrański, National Attorney's Office. I'll explain. Here in the question, Senator Kochan is unfortunately mixed up with some very different issues. Namely, you called Senator Kazus, examples of judges of the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court who once practiced the profession of prosecutor. None of them were retired prosecutors at the time of their candidacy for the post of Supreme Court Judge, each of whom was active prosecutors. According to what the Minister has said, there is no prohibition in the system for a prosecutor in active service, as well as a retired prosecutor, to run for judge. However, it is clear that it is not possible for a judge to perform this function by a prosecutor, whether at rest or In particular, In active duty. As for the judges of the Supreme Court, who previously were prosecutors, it is my knowledge that Each of them made a declaration of resignation of the prosecutor's position in connection with the appointment of a Supreme Court Judge. At no time, for a moment there was a combination of these two functions. I'll add that I'm just going to theoretically put it to you. Even if none of these prosecutors had taken such a position at the time of your appointment as Supreme Court Judge, the position of prosecutor in such a situation would have expired by law as falling into an irreparable conflict with the possibility of exercising judicial authority. If you don't mind, I'll explain the reasons for the second doubt. The Minister presented exactly the essence of the ratio legis. I do not represent the government, as Mr President, Senator Kwiatkowski said, I never represented the government at the committee meeting, I represented the National Public Prosecutor's Office, which participates in the joint work. Why? Well, because the law on the D.A.'s office is our system bill. Moreover, we really saw this deficit at the evaluation stage of the law on the prosecutor's office. In other words, potentially, if there was a situation in which a retired prosecutor would be appointed to serve as a judge, one should know that there is no provision to regulate such a situation. As I said, in the case of the U.S. Attorney, there would be an expiry. But the A.D.A.'s retired, he's retired. The pensioner is allowed to carry out additional activities, he can earn just like any pensioner in the general system. So it was necessary to make such a provision so that there wouldn't be a situation where someone would have doubts as to whether it was possible to combine these two statuses, because it shouldn't be possible. Not only because of the lack of grounds for collecting 2 salaries, but because of, well, inadmissibility, that someone should be retired and at the same time a judge of any court. Let me stress once again, with satisfaction I find that here, finally, this element of removing the legal gap is as if it were exposed. Well, at the committee meeting in which I participated, the whole discussion was unfortunately dominated by a completely erroneous assumption by the legislator, who has drawn up an opinion on this, that there is some other bottom on this matter, which is to be removed by this provision. No, there is only one aspect in this case: the point is that the legal situation should not ever occur where there is doubt that such a situation is acceptable for us from the point of view of transparency in the justice system.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u69	Thank you. Senator Jolanta Hibner. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u70	I have a question that I didn't get the answers to at the committee meeting. As the prosecutor mentioned here, the retired prosecutor is retired. I'm assuming he's a real pensioner, which means he's years old, he's just a pensioner. Like any pensioner, he could have a different job, for example. To be a judge. How did you... What profession is it that the pensioner returns to the same position? The superintendent in charge of the construction work has been employed elsewhere and is supposed to normally retire to the same post. Tell me how safe it is... This person, who is already a retired person, who has worked out her years, of course has a source of news, has a guaranteed position. The hospital director stopped being the hospital director and went somewhere else. So? He comes and says, hello, I'm the director, let the director, who is now, remove himself. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it's kind of on the head. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Senator, question.]] Which is why I'm asking you who invented this thing so that someone who's already out of the picture would go back to the same position.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u71	Thank you very much. [[It's in those regulations.]] Thank you very much. [[Mr. District Attorney wants to take the floor.]] Mr. District Attorney. There you go. [[And with a guarantee.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u72	I'll admit, I don't see any reason why you're outraged by the senator at all. Well, I don't see these reasons, I don't know what the problem is. I'll add more. Problem because someone's coming back? Let me remind you that the judge who will be appointed as senator, when he completes his senator's mandate, will return to his own judicial position and will just say "halo," I am the judge back. Now, here's the thing. Let's remember that the prosecutors at rest... Both the judge and the prosecutor can be that age... Retirement is not linked to the achievement of the absolute retirement age. That's the first line. The judicial and prosecutorial state of rest is not governed on a general basis by the Social Insurance Act, only by rules arising from the law on the system of common courts, by the Law on the Supreme Court, by the law on the system of administrative courts, military courts and the law on the prosecutor's office. Thus, the retirement equivalent of retirement is not a position, as the senator was gracious to say, but a status, a certain service relationship of the nature of retirement in the field of legal professions. And in a situation like that, like I said... This solution is exactly what is in force for judges who are candidates for the position of Member, for the position of Senator, who hold this position and who then... Let me give you an example of Mrs Dolniak. She is a judge, if I remember correctly, one of the Silesian courts. And if Mrs Dolniak had ended her term of office, she would have the opportunity to return to her judicial position. I don't see why, in the case of a retired prosecutor, the same principle would be treated as incomprehensible. On the contrary, it is the same standard and is therefore a typical solution in such facts.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u73	Then I'll fill it in. I absolutely agree. A person who is strong enough to become a senator or an MEP returns to work. That's the way it is with all of us. This isn't just about judges or prosecutors. Each of us who is of age and has been chosen, being in a certain position, returns to this position. It's not an exception. I'm talking about the exception when the D.A.'s retirement age, but as any pensioner can take a job... Anyone can take up to 80th, to 90th... In Switzerland lately, even up to the ninety-eighths... anyone can take a job if they're strong enough, but they're not returning to the same position. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Senator...]] And you say he comes back in every form... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Senator...]] No one's going back to the same post as he's retired and... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Question. This isn't a discussion. Where's the question?]] Where did the pensioner come from... I'm talking about the pensioner, the U.S. Attorney, not the person who's fully fit and...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u74	Okay, then you'll answer the D.A. one more time. And I'd like to ask you comprehensively.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u75	Senator, again in her speech, well, she's making the original mistake, which brings the whole example astray. There's no judge's office or the D.A.'s office at rest. This isn't a position. This is a retirement situation. There is no such position. The position is where there is formation, doing, action. It's a job. And the resting state That's the status. And now I'm gonna ask you from the other side. Is that why the senator insists that in a situation where... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stank: Mr. Prosecutor, I'm just gonna barge in here. No questions asked, because it's not a discussion.]] That's a rhetorical question. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Good.]] Look at this. If, in accordance with your suggestion, the senator is to be elected as a senator, and if he prefers voters in a democratic system, the person who had the right to run as a judge at rest or as a prosecutor at rest is then elected as a senator, and then, after this service has been served as a senator, as a senator, as a Member of Parliament, is to end the work of a parliamentarian, then she is to be deprived of all that she has worked out, for example. For 30 years of court-martialing or working at the D.A.'s office because the voters entrusted her with four years or eight years of parliamentary mandate? Well, how is he not coming back? Well, these are her due pension benefits in the form of a state's attorney's salary or a retired judge. If the capital developed and the pension status were to be rendered ineffective as a result of the fact that someone had been elected by the voters as a parliamentarians and held it, well, there would be some absurd harm to such a person, dissuading any public service which, in the light of the rules in force, is acceptable.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u76	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u77	Mrs. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, I apologize, indeed, Mr. Szafrański... I had a chance to work with him, with the ministry... Of course, he represented the D.A.'s office, not the ministry. I have a question. Because we have a formal problem because of the way in which this amendment is being dealt with. Hence our motion to remove this from the amendment. Does the government anticipate If the final decision of the Senate is to adopt the report as submitted by the Legislative Commission, the exit from the legislative initiative contained in the article. 14 will simply regulate a separate amendment?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u78	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u79	Mr Senator, referring to the extensive case-law of the Constitutional Tribunal, such as K 35/15 or K 47/15, where the Court spoke on the legislative procedure, I would like to point out and remind you that this amendment was tabled immediately after the first reading which took place in the plenary session of the Sejm. At the committee meeting, immediately after the first reading, this amendment was presented. Since she has absolutely no doubts, moreover, it is necessary to remove all these contradictions that we have just mentioned, she has been accepted, voted by the Sejm. I'll remind you, after the first reading. Therefore, there was a debate at the committee meeting, at second reading, after second reading, there was still a committee meeting, in addition, and then there was a third reading. So four times Members had the opportunity to speak, speak, express their position. And that's exactly what I'm quoting. This would, of course, be a violation if the amendment had been proposed at the end, without the possibility of addressing it, of discussing it. But even this discussion shows that the full issue of this amendment has already been resolved. So here I absolutely do not see a breach of principle 3 of reading, which is, moreover, a principle repeatedly interpreted by the Constitutional Tribunal in this way, in order to give an opportunity to speak. That possibility was absolutely possible. There was no surprise, out of the blue, at third reading, just before the final vote. This is not an amendment made in the Senate. This is an amendment that has had a thorough discussion in the Parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u80	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u81	You didn't answer the question. Polymics with the Legislative Bureau are interesting. My question is: if the Senate adopts this law as proposed by the Legislative Commission, i.e. without this article, will you take a legislative initiative in this area?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u82	We predict that in the Sejm we will convince parliamentarians to reject the Senate's position in this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u83	We know the answer. Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u84	Minister, I want to be clear about the article. 14 point 2. Because I understand that this concerns, among other things. the situation where the prosecutor becomes a judge. Then why... [[Senator, turn the mike on.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Please ask this question again so that it can be recorded, Mr. Senator.]] This is a situation that does not concern those who have been elected to Parliament as Members and Senators, but prosecutors appointed as Judges, that is, performing a different public mission. Then why do you recommend adopting a provision that, once they have ceased to serve as a judge, they will return to the state of the prosecutor's rest?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u85	For two reasons, Mr. Senator. The point is to be equal to those who choose to represent voters, whether in the Sejm or in the Senate. It's the same today, they're coming back. Prosecutors or judges appointed to serve as Member or Senator return to their previous positions. That's the first line. That's why there shouldn't be any difference. Prosecutors at rest should not be discriminated against who are appointed to serve as a judge. We're trying to level everyone out. Whether someone goes to the Seym or the Senate or becomes a judge, being a retired prosecutor, he should have the same opportunity to return to his previous post... to his previous status. Of course, I fully agree with the prosecutor that this is not a position. Being a retired prosecutor is a kind of status, it's pension rights acquired for many years. Why should we deprive them of someone? Why should we discriminate against the prosecutors at rest just because they felt the mission to be an MEP, a senator or just a judge? We can't... [[Just because they felt the mission to be a judge?]] Yes, of course. They've gone to the judge's post and they've had to relinquish... they'll be obliged to relinquish the status of a retired prosecutor, they won't return to their previous post. This would result, first, in inequality and second, in the freezing effect on retired prosecutors who would be deprived of all pension rights acquired over the years at that time. And I'm going to say... [[No.]] [[...judges at rest.]] [[Voice from the room:... Also at rest.]] Of course, judges at rest, prosecutors at rest... Absolutely. And one more point I would like to draw attention to. I would like to remind you that this is a kind of retirement status, and I'm talking about the status of a judge or a retired prosecutor. However, it does not involve in any way reaching the retirement age. We're talking about people at rest who often... Let me give you an example of a judge from Pomerania, 37-year-old. So these people must not be denied the opportunity to return to their previous position. Why should we deprive them of it? Why should we discriminate against them?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u86	Minister, I still have a clarification question because it doesn't appeal to me. The longer the Minister explains it, the more doubts I have. This last translation doesn't speak to me at all. You compare a prosecutor or a judge who goes to parliament to become an MEP or a senator... After all, the Member or Senator has no rest, and the judge has. For me, as a lawyer, it's such a guarantee that this man who went to the judge's post could be thrown out of this position and not get a state of rest. And that's why he's gonna go back to the D.A.'s office. I mean, after that translation... Well, I wasn't as convinced as this discussion started, but now that you've explained it, I'm so convinced that that's exactly what this is all about. Is that so? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Maciej Warchoł: Mr. Prosecutor would like to take a position here. I don't understand your Marshal's statement that you've been expelled from the position of judge...]] 'Cause then there's no judge's resting state... It's just... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Maciej Warchoł: But...]] ...he won't have a judge's post at rest. And if he does, why would he need a state's attorney at rest? That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u87	Both the judge and the prosecutor at rest may be deprived of their rest as a result of disciplinary proceedings. Disciplinary proceedings are under way and he may be punished in this way. So there's no difference here. But the D.A. would like to speak. There you go. If you don't mind, Mrs. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u88	There you go, Mr. District Attorney. Maybe you can explain that.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u89	Mrs. Marshal, I'm happy to explain, because here is a misunderstanding based on the construction of the entire article. 132 laws on the D.A.'s office, but first one thing I'm gonna point out, one sentence. on the issue of the fact that parliamentarians are not at rest. Well, they don't. They may have a pension if they have worked it out. I'll remind you that retirement can't be given up, there's no way someone can give up retirement. It is an inalienable right that is universally available. You can have the pension money by handing it over to your grandchildren, but you can't give it up. And the resting state of the judge and the D.A. can give up. If he does, he won't have that status. What's with the construction? She doesn't have a second bottom, and she can't have the second bottom that your marshal introduced. I will admit that I would not have come up with such an interpretation of this provision, but I have listened carefully to this doubt. What is it? In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 132 in §7, which is subject to the amendment contained in Article. 14 point 2 of the Seym Act, is adopted such a construction. If earlier, pursuant to §3, the prosecutor appointed as parliamentarians is to resign and by virtue of §7 returns to rest, i.e. to the status of resting... If we add an additional element to §3, this also applies to the effects of §7. I would like to stress that from the point of view of the pension dimension resulting from the state of rest of the prosecutor's or the judge's... No facts or fluctuations will affect its height. I'll tell you what's going on. If this were the case, that the prosecutor, in connection with the termination of the judicial office, is retiring, then the term of office of the judge is added to his term of office. But it is irrelevant for another reason, because the resting states of judges and prosecutors are not calculated in the manner in which pensions are shaped, i.e. depending on the length of the premium period and the amount of deductions, they are only legally shaped By reference to a certain percentage of the remuneration charged in the last occupied position. And that's why there's really no difference between a possible judge's resting state and a prosecutor's resting state. I will give you another reason why this solution is accepted. This is the construction of the rule at the moment that, since it is a matter of retiring from the end of the term of office of a Member or a Senator... If we add one more element, then we add to this recipe also this element that speaks of going back to rest. There is another problem that I spoke extensively about at the committee meeting. Unfortunately, as a result of the surprising ruling of the Supreme Court, the Chamber of Labour and Social Insurance of 2011, which referred to the situation of a retired prosecutor who was elected as a Member and then his mandate was extinguished by the decision of the Marshal of the Sejm, which was contested to the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court has suddenly shaped a structure that does not really exist logically or legally, namely the position of a retired prosecutor. That's what I was talking about at the committee meeting. He said that this is the same position as the prosecutor's position in the active service. In other words, it's a retirement position, we'd say. This decision was therefore considered appropriate. And now in legal trade, or at least in legal language, unfortunately there are views that the prosecutor or the judge at rest is in office. Yes? I will stress once again that any dictionaries of the Polish language say that this position is a job, it is an engagement, it is a job. If we were to say to other people that they're retired, they'd all be laughing. And here, unfortunately, the Supreme Court has stated: the position of prosecutor. And now, due to the fact that there are two ways at the moment of viewing the status of a retired prosecutor The first natural, logical, common sense, based on legal standards such that it is not a position, it is a prosecutor's pension, as the Minister said, as is the retirement pension; and the second is that it is a kind of position In order to remove certain possible doubts and disputes, it is necessary to adopt a construction which exists in §7 Article. 132, that is simply not to modify anything in the scope of the current content, but to add this one element which corresponds to the element added to §3. And that's the whole reason for taking it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u90	Thank you very much. I'll admit, it didn't dispel my doubts. But we're gonna finish a round of questions. Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Maciej Warchoł: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor, sir... No? [[Talking in the O.R.]] So you're resigning. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would just like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up, and that the senators Alexander Swed and Benjamin Godyla have made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you, Minister. Thank you, Mr. Prosecutor. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-second of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Military Property Agency. The text of the Act is contained in print No 536 and the report of the Commission In print No 536 A. I ask the rapporteur of the National Defence Committee, Senator Dorota Czudowska, to submit a report to the committee. The senator was here. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Chudowska... I thought I saw her. Oh, here comes the senator. There you go, Senator. I'm sorry, but I thought you were still in jail, so...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u91	I've been in jail the whole time. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on the work of the National Defence Committee on the Act amending the Military Property Agency Act. The amendment of the Military Property Agency Act is short. It only applies to one point, which doesn't mean it's done without discussion. The Military Property Agency under the Ministry of National Defence has many roles to fulfil, many tasks, including tasks set out in the relevant Articles. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 7 are own tasks and in Article. 9 tasks commissioned. The amendment is that within the framework of its own tasks in Article. In paragraph 7, the first paragraph is replaced by the following: 1 in item 14, which has so far been stated: the conduct of marketing and promotional activities, is also included: the organisation of projects related to the promotion of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, including air shows. What is the reason for this change? Well, the Ministry of National Defence wants to have some influence and participation in organizing air shows. This also applies to the famous air shows in Poland and Europe, which take place annually in Radom. The Minister of National Defence cannot organize such shows, such events which aim to promote the Polish national defence, the Polish army, and our glory, the glory of our army and Poland since it regained independence, i.e. Polish aviation, but is the main actor of these projects. Because in order for an air show like this to happen, it has to be used for military planes, equipment, and of course you need trained pilots. This may be done by the Military Property Agency, which the Minister is subject to. Well, it is not that it has been impossible to organize such events so far, but it was possible, but it was without influence on what is happening and then also on the accounts of the Ministry of National Defence. The discussion was, not everyone likes this change and Senator Zdrojewski filed a motion to reject the bill. After an exchange of views on the subject In Radom Air Show, as if you dominated the discussion, Senator Zdrojewski's motion to reject the bill was put to the vote. He didn't get the majority, but those who voted against, including the Senators of Law and Justice, didn't get the majority. It's a tie. After that, the second discussion and Senator Mamytkow applied for a law without amendments, and this proposal was also with a tie result. Therefore, the High Chamber will decide what will be the future of this revision of the Senate Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u92	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The draft law was introduced by Members. Mr Radosław Fogiel was authorised to present the position of the applicants during parliamentary work. There's no MP... Is the representative of the government, Minister Skurkiewicz, that you have changed your place, wishing to speak on the bill under consideration? I'd like you to come to the stand, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u93	Thank you very much, Marshal. I thank Senator Chudowska very, very much for the comprehensive presentation of the case. Ladies and gentlemen, one explanation. Of course, there is no government position for this bill. I represent the Ministry of National Defence. Thank you so much for taking this initiative, this revision of the Military Property Agency Act. Of course, I cordially encourage you to support this solution. I will tell you directly what Senator Czudowska has already suggested: the organisation of air shows, where the Armed Forces, the Polish Army will be the organizer, will not be possible without this amendment. I will just add that the Polish Army, the Ministry of National Defence, cannot conduct commercial activities, cannot contract those who perform, cannot also contract or conclude sponsorship contracts, cannot, for example. rent a surface Because at such events there are also rented areas, for example for those conducting business activities, they cannot also sell tickets for such shows, such events. Therefore, it will not be possible to organize or involve the Polish Army at the same level as it has been so far. These regulations and this expectation in relation to the Military Property Agency also respond to the speeches of the Central Anti-corruption Office, following the previous editions of Air Shows organized in Radom. The Central Anti-corruption Office clearly indicated that it was the agency under the Ministry of National Defence that should perform the duties of the so-called. the financial operator. So far, it has been the case that other actors emerged in different ways, these were non-governmental organisations which performed such a function as a financial operator, and many problems have been raised, as I mentioned at the committee meeting, among others. failure to take account of the organisation of air shows for the years 2010 to 2015, the amount of more than PLN 6 million has not yet been settled. I therefore ask the High House to adopt these solutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u94	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u95	Thank you very much. Minister, I am very much in favour of this bill, but I have a question which, I hope, is a rhetorical question. Will, first of all, following the entry into force of these regulations, if the military is the organizer of these events, not be more secure at these events? Because it will necessarily be supervised by the military. And secondly, since, as you said yourself, it will not be a ticketing event, it will also benefit the public, because it will be free to use it. Do I get it or not? If you don't, you're gonna have to make a mistake.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u96	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u97	No, Mr. Editor. Firstly, with regard to safety, this is a key issue and absolutely not subject to the slightest discussion in the case of air shows, regardless of whether they were organized by the Ministry of National Defence or by the Ministry of National Defence with partners. This change concerns only the organisation of these air shows, the organizer of which or the main organizer is the Polish Army or the Ministry of National Defence. It does not apply to projects that are organized in different places of the country, because air shows are organized in many places of the country: Mazury, Gdynia, other places. This is not the case, but only the situation where the Polish Army is the organizer or the main organizer of this type of undertaking. If air shows were organized exclusively by the forces of the Ministry of National Defence or the Polish Army, then such an event would be unquote, i.e. unquote in the sense that tickets would not be sold at the price of one or another, but would have to be passed on so-called. Zero tickets. This was probably the case in 2017, when, in connection with the turmoil with the predecessor who was a financial operator, the Minister of Defence recommended that such demonstrations be organised. Then they were distributed, distributed, distributed so-called. Zero tickets, which is because the airport record, one or another, in this case the military airport in Radom, has a certain capacity and the organizers could not afford to have more people watching these shows during the show on one or the other day than the safety conditions allowed. So anyway, the tickets were, only they were so-called. Zero tickets. As far as air shows are concerned, of course These are ticketing events and are usually self-financing shows because they are sponsoring, renting space, selling tickets. They're practically balancing, and it's usually like the result goes to zero, and when the profit comes from these projects... So far this has been the case, and it has been recorded in contracts with successive operators that these funds were to be transferred to the Armed Forces Modernization Fund. Unfortunately, it turned out that the financial resources from the demonstrations in these years, which I have invoked to date, have not been transferred to the Armed Forces Modernization Fund.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u98	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: Thank you very much.]] Sit in your seat, senator. It'll be closer. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator George Wcisla.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u99	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! The proposed amendment to the Military Property Agency Act should not appear in Parliament in such a form and with such a poor justification. If we go to the agency's website, we'll see what it does: looking for real estate, bidding on real estate, selling equipment and weapons, housing, boarding houses, benefits, housing checks for soldiers. That's what's coming out of her name. There's nothing there about organizing events, promoting the Armed Forces or organizing shows. There isn't, because the agency hasn't dealt with these things so far. Although marketing and promotion activities are mentioned among the tasks, they concern the agency's specific tasks, not the promotion of the Armed Forces themselves or the organisation of events promoting the military. And all of a sudden, at the initiative of the Members, On the initiative of the Ministry, not at the initiative of the Ministry, but at the initiative of the Members, the agency is to conduct marketing and promotion activities, organize projects related to the promotion of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, including air shows. And the Deputy Minister, Senator Wojciech Skurkiewicz, informs us that if the bill is not amended, air shows will no longer be held in Poland, headed by Radom Air Shows, which attract hundreds of thousands of people. So he wants to ask: why is it not the Ministry, but a group of Members with a legislative initiative? I understand that if it hadn't been for this bottom-up initiative, the Ministry would have given up the promotion. Well, it would be willing to give it up just because it wasn't the Military Property Agency that would be responsible for organizing promotional events. If so, it means that the Ministry of National Defence does not particularly care about promoting the military and aviation. I would like to remind you that by decision of the Minister of National Defence of March 2019, the Ministry of National Defence is involved in planning, organising and coordinating projects promoting the Ministry in Poland and abroad. If the promotional sphere has been regulated legally, and quite recently, why are we trying today to impose similar tasks on the Military Property Agency? The reason is to be, as the Minister also said today, bad experience in cooperation with one association, which was the financial operator of the Air Show in Radom and which, according to the Ministry of National Defence, did not account for the amount of PLN 6 million. The case has been pending since 2015, i.e. since PiS took power, and has still not been resolved. What does that say? In my opinion, this means that the accusations that justify the need for this amendment are unconvincing. But this certainly shows that we need to learn to sign and enforce contracts. This isn't gonna be replaced by taking a departmental partner. At best, it will be easier to hide any incompetence. Nor is it true that such a partner will be cheaper and better. There's no way to prove it. On the contrary, it is very likely that learning new tasks will cost money, of course taxpayers. In principle, it is much easier to use competent, specialised institutions than to learn from your mistakes. And when the tasks for which public money is paid are carried out, the transparency of such transactions is a civilization requirement. On the other hand, the problem of cooperation with possible external sponsors disappears. Are there, therefore, other objectives for which the amendment of the law can help to be implemented? I think so, but these targets are more of a threat, not a chance. Our job, senators, is to warn against such possible scenarios. The first threat is that another institution will receive an undefined multi-million-dollar pool of money which it will be able to hold beyond strict budgetary control. Today, in order to make decisions, we do not even know what the agency will do and what resources it will have for these tasks. There is talk of air shows, but note that the words "inclusive" are added, i.e. this one-point list is open. And it may turn out that the agency will take care of e.g. the organisation of folk military festivities, which will by chance take place during the election campaign. Can we imagine that? I can. It may turn out that air shows in cities that PiS does not like will suddenly cease to be attractive and will not receive any support that partners engaged in these projects for years will no longer be invited to participate in the next editions of the shows. The fates of the Government Local Investment Fund have shown that this scenario is also possible. Someone's gonna say I'm overreacting. I wish I could, but I have good reasons. Today in Poland there are institutions such as the Justice Fund, managed by Minister Ziobro or the Patriotic Fund subordinate to Minister Glińskie. They both get the worst of it. Isn't the military promotion fund gonna get on that ugly list? I am entitled to such concerns, therefore I will vote against this short one, because it has only 29 words and 200 signs of amendment, with the hope that the Ministry will not want, if the amendment was not adopted, to destroy the wonderful traditions of the Polish air show in the act of revenge. At the same time, I regret that I had to use 700 words and 4 000 characters to justify this decision. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u100	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski. It's remote.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u101	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you a few questions, but somehow I got an answer to them in the speech of my colleague, Senator Jerzy Wcisła, so I'm just going to refer to the two most important things. Well, in my opinion, the most important are the competences which the Military Property Agency has at present, and with the implementation of these competences, it can be different, to put it mildly. We must remember that one of the most important tasks of the Military Property Agency is to support the Fund for the Modernisation of the Armed Forces. We have a certain percentage of what should be done there. And as I've been observing the results of the last six years, I've seen it, as I've already said, it's been different. I would like to emphasise one more point that is important. It seems to me that the acquisition of this additional competence for the implementation of air shows is necessary primarily when we are thinking about improving the possible execution of the 6 million, of which the Minister finally said. If that is the case, I believe that this is evidence of a certain incompetence or inability to execute, as indicated by the Central Anti-corruption Office. I want to highlight one thing. I believe in private entities, I believe in the effectiveness of such projects, which are of a promotional nature and actually support opportunities either educational or technical, related to various projects, let's say, on the border of civil life and military life. But I'm going to say it again. The opponent of acquiring new competences in a situation of various problems with the competences that have so far been held. And one last thing. I would not like to see the possible acquisition of such competence at the expense of many well-deserved actors, associations, foundations, which were very much involved in such projects, very different, local, national, international. Nor do I want to be responsible for the possible elimination of various private entities operating on this market in extremely difficult conditions, for an entity that is or wants to be omnipotent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u102	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. [[Voice from the room: No, one more...]] Mr... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yeah, but what's his name? [[Voice from the room: Rusiecki.]] Senator Rusiecki. I'm very sorry, Mr. Senator, but you don't come to the podium very often and... [[Voice from the room: It was covid fog.]] I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u103	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My speech will be brief in contrast to this argument, which counted several hundred characters, Senator Wcisła. That was an appearance. I'm gonna say yes. Full of suspicions, insinuations that something might not work. The intention of entrusting the organization of air shows, whose main partner is the Ministry of National Defence and the Polish Army, the Air Force, is to organize the situation. A situation that presents some organisational problems. And it's not about eliminating partners, it's about getting a financial operator, which could be the Military Property Agency, so that everything will also follow the recommendations, suggestions proposed by the Central Anti-corruption Office. I think it's going to be the big air show that's been going on in Radom so far. 'Cause it's a big event. So that they are safe... It is both about safety regarding extremely interesting, interesting, difficult flights as well as financial security. And that's all it is. And the Military Property Agency can certainly extend this competence because it has experience in building installations in Poland that meet the standards of the North Atlantic Pact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u104	Thank you very much, Senator. Thus the list of speakers was exhausted. For the record, the senators Alexander Swed, Benjamin Godyla and Maciej Luczak made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. [[My voice is still there.]] Did the senator make a speech in the discussion? [[Yeah, I put it on the record.]] So Senator Joanna Sekuła also gave a speech to the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister. I hope you're staying. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: I would like to submit...]] Yeah, but there were no legislative proposals. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: But I just want to correct one thing...]] It's a pity that... okay. You're welcome, by way of exception.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u105	I would just like, ladies and gentlemen, to thank you also for these criticisms and to clarify 3 key issues. As far as the Military Property Agency is concerned, I reiterate and repeat that the Military Property Agency is a body supervised by the Minister of National Defence and carrying out tasks commissioned by the Minister of National Defence. That's one thing. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, the Military Property Agency... Because there are actually words and all kinds of accusations that it's gonna be money-taking, and so on. The Military Property Agency directly from the budget of the Minister of National Defence for this task will not receive even a zloty. That's what I said. It's supposed to be a party, or it's supposed to be a party that's self-financing. They're supposed to be parties that are supposed to balance. And the president of the agency will not take any other action in this area, and the Ministry of National Defence will not finance such projects. And one more thing: I'd like to correct the thing you said to Senator Wcisla. Mr. Senator, the fact that we couldn't execute doesn't apply to 2015, which I want to say directly. And this criticism of Minister Klich and Minister Semoniak I do not know if he is entitled, because this concerns the 2009, 2011 and 2013 air shows. Does that mean they were mismanaging because they couldn't execute these benefits? No, it's just that the actions on the part of that partner you're looking for were unfair. That's it. That's it. And we want it to be transparent, transparent, clear and legible. Thank you so much and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u106	Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-third of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Protection of the Environment and the Act on the greenhouse gas emissions management system and other substances. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 510 and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 510 A and 510 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment, Senator Rafał Ślusarz, to present a report to the committee. [[Mrs. Marshal, there's also a report...]] Yes, yes, but the senator is in the second place. It's in the script, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u107	Dear Marshal! High Senate! Minister! The Environment Commission together with the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on 19 October dealt with the proposal to amend the Environmental Law and the Act on greenhouse gas emissions management and other substances; Senate print No 510. The need for an amendment was due to the need to implement European law on the European Register for the Release and Transfer of Pollution. The Directives on reporting methods, reporting dates in this register have changed. In order to meet these new regulations, it is also necessary to amend national law. An additional element introduced in the regulation is the principle of measuring penalties for failure to report and for insufficient quality of information in this report. Two amendments were proposed by the Senate Legislative Office to this amendment. They expressed the doubts of the Legislative Bureau as to whether there was some legislative overcapacity in that act. In conclusion, the Legislative Bureau proposed that 2 entries be deleted. These proposals were not made by any of the senators and no amendments were proposed at the committee meeting. The discussion was limited to whether the scope of the penalties introduced would be of some arbitrary nature. The explanations which have been submitted that the issue of delay will be regulated by penalties for each day of delay and the quality of the data will be assessed according to the reasons for the seriousness, scale and circumstances of the failure are considered sufficient. Therefore, the committee recommends to the High Senate 18 votes in favour, 1 Senator abstained. The adoption of this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u108	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u109	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! On 26 October, the members of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs worked on amending the Environmental Law and the Law on greenhouse gas emissions management and other substances. This law concerns the implementation of 17 directives, such as: as regards the reduction of environmental pollution by asbestos, the protection of natural habitats and wild fauna and flora, and the availability of... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Jacek Decoration: Sorry, this is not our bill. That's not the report. It's not a habitat issue, it's environmental law.]] No, no. I'm just telling you what kind of... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Minister, please do not interrupt the rapporteur.]] ...the directive concerns, Minister. ...on end-of-life vehicles relating to the assessment and management of environmental noise, air quality and clean air, marine environment, wild birds, industrial emissions, promotion and use of... As I said, 17 directives. The Act deals with changes related to monitoring and reporting on the implementation of this Union law and introduces administrative fines imposed for non-compliance with the provisions relating to that reporting. The latter element was also controversial in our committee because of the very large discrepancy between the penalty of PLN 500 and the penalty of PLN 25 000 and the lack of specific criteria that would accompany the decision on how high this penalty is to be. The criterion is only the scale of the infringement. The worrying thing is that penalties can be discretionary. However, after legislative amendments were introduced, including those referred to by the rapporteur of the Environment Committee The amendments were adopted unanimously. The members of the committee recommend the adoption of a resolution on the Environmental Protection Law and the Law on the greenhouse gas emission management system and other substances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u110	Thank you very much, Senator. In the so-called. In the meantime, I would very much like to ask all of you in the courtroom, who do not have masks, to assume them correctly. Thank you so much for that. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Climate and Environment has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u111	Dear Marshal! Dear Senators! I would like to start by saying that I was referring to this statement because the amendment concerns three legal acts. Indeed, environmental law, as currently existing legislation, concerns a larger number of acts which bind us in the framework of our membership of the European Union, which is why this was the point. As I mentioned, the regulation concerns reporting to the European Commission, collecting information from the Chief Environmental Inspector on greenhouse gases. This is a very technical implementation of deadlines and penalties. The only amendment in this area, which is our initiative, concerns the dimension of penalties or the introduction of the so-called. Fork. Today, IUU is linked to the penalty of PLN 25 000 for entrepreneurs, and we believe that in the case of the least serious deficiencies, concerning e.g. the quality of reporting, those set out in the Regulation and in the implementing rules, the penalty should not be zero-one, should not be 25 000. We propose that forks be introduced from 500 PLN to 25 thousand PLN. And that's it. The government, of course, supports the proposed rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u112	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal, I'll admit I'm a little concerned about what the Minister said. If the Minister wishes to revise this law with regard to 3 European regulations, and the case concerns 17 directives, 2 regulations and 2 decisions, I am concerned and wondering whether this law will actually be properly implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u114	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Alexander Szwed, Władysław Komarnicki, Janusz Pęcherz, Mariusz Gromko and Jolanta Hibner made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, the senators did not make legislative proposals, but the committees made different proposals. I ask the Committee on the Environment, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Extraordinary Commission on Climate Affairs to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-four of the agenda: the Law amending the Waste Act and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 532, and the report of the Commission In the letters Nos 532 A and 532 B. I ask the rapporteur of the committee, Senator Janusz Błucher, to report first to the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs and then to the Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u115	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on the Environment and the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 13 October 2021 amending the Waste Act and certain other laws. The Senate Marshal sent the bill to the above mentioned committees. Both the meeting of the Environment Committee and the meeting of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs took place the day before yesterday, i.e. 26 October 2021 After considering the Act, the Environment Commission and the Extraordinary Commission for Climate Affairs request that the High Senate adopt the attached draft law. This law implements 4 European Union Directives: the Packaging and Packaging Waste Directive, the Waste Storage Directive, the Waste Directive repealing certain Directives and the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive. All these directives have been amended... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to ask for peace of mind, because it is very disturbing for the person on the platform. Thank you.]] Thank you. All Directives were amended in 2018 by Directives published in the Official Journal of the European Union of 14 June 2018. The revision of EU legislation on waste management sets targets for preparing for the re-use and recycling of municipal waste by 2025, 2030 and 2035, respectively. It also sets targets for recycling packaging waste by 2025 and 2030. and the reduction of municipal waste disposal by 2035. In order to amend these Directives, as many as 7 laws shall be amended. All these changes have been very widely discussed in the explanatory memorandum to the Act and I will not present them at the moment. The essence of these changes is the introduction of circular waste management, i.e. the transition from a linear economic development model to a circular model and, as a result, the reduction of the waste stream. This is a demonstration, once again, of a model of waste hierarchy in which prevention, i.e. minimizing waste formation and re-use of waste is the most important objective. Everything that cannot be re-used should be recycled, and storage should be part of the epito... episode... well, unique, sorry. If we're talking about this model, this model of waste management is a model of the inverted pyramid. If we reverse the pyramid, we have to support this pyramid somehow. Yes? We should support it with financial and environmental awareness. The Act introduces the obligation to carry out selective collection of bio-waste as well. We talked about this at committee meetings, mainly the Environment Committee, that this is a huge challenge for the government, but above all for local authorities, because this project requires considerable financial expenditure not only related to the selective collection of these waste at source, but above all to the construction of bio-processing plants, together with the possibility of producing electricity from biogas fermentation. At the meeting of the committee, I used an example of investment in the municipal waste treatment plant of Orli Staw. In Prażuche Nowe pod Kalisz, run by the communal union of 22 municipalities called "Clean City," Pure Municipality. The investment related to modernization of this installation is almost PLN 70 million. Large funding, more than 50%, came from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. The risks I also mentioned at the committee meeting are such that today, with the increase in electricity costs, together with the increase in various other fees, companies also demand changes in contracts that were signed earlier. This may become a problem not only of this one plant, but also of many others in Poland, if such investments were to take place. Of course, it is a good thing that this law has been prepared, but we must be aware that there is still a very long way to go to its success, and this is a very winding road, for example, due to the lack of solutions regarding the extended producer responsibility, as we also talked about, or bail systems. But the Minister has reassured us a little here that the Ministry has advanced work in this area, so it is important to hope that these records will soon see the light of day. There were also discussions about the letter submitted by Hutnicza Chamber of Industry and Commerce, but there was no further discussion. No appropriate amendment was made at the committee meeting. Both committees, both the Committee on the Environment and the Extraordinary Commission on Climate Affairs, recommend the adoption of a law with one legislative amendment Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u116	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u117	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, what's going to change on the part of the producer of this waste, the citizen? What will be the change here? Are these issues that you have talked about widely, the issues of biodegradable waste... Will these wastes require, for example, additional selection by the person who delivers the waste, that is, by households? Will this law make any changes in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u118	I think the Minister will speak on this matter. Indeed, in order for biological waste to be good waste for biological installations to process such waste, it must be clean waste at source. But local governments are responsible for these solutions. All of this, of course, undermines the cost of the municipal waste treatment system or the management of the waste, but there is no other way out. At the committee meeting I said, showing this, among others. in my example, that if waste is well selected at source, mixed waste is practically gone, most of it is bio waste. And if there are bio-processing plants, it will also be a source of electricity and biogas.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u119	Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, but I was asking if it would require at source, as you call it professionally, and rightly... So he's a citizen of X, and he's got eggshells, and I'm already so graphically depicting it, grass, banana peels and potato peels. Will he have to select it for the different groups... [[No, no.]] Is this the plant that receives the biological waste itself will do so in order to obtain this clean biological raw material needed for biogas production?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u121	Mr. Senator, that won't be necessary. There's one container, most often it's a brown container, I have, for example, a 200-litre container, and all the bio waste, which is these potato skins, but also a banana, goes into this container. It's best not to have citrus peels, because experts say it's disturbing the anaerobic fermentation a little bit, but let's say it's also going to be processed. I think that in a fermentation plant all this will be properly processed and biogas will be produced, which can be used entirely, according to assessments and calculations made at least in this plant, which I mentioned, for the purposes of the operation of a large plant.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u122	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u123	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! However, I would like to ask you a short text. Will the implementation of this law, i.e. the implementation of the directive, roads, increase the costs for the average citizen of waste collection, waste collection costs? Will there be any conditions by which this inhabitant will be created? You were talking about bio-waste here. Is he going to be able to reduce this on his own initiative?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u124	Of course he can, because the composters are still functioning. But I think it's next. I'm sure the Minister will see to it. However, it will be suggested that these biological waste be processed in biological treatment and anaerobic fermentation plants. Is this going to increase the cost... If we want to meet those requirements that are imposed on us in 2025, 2030 and 2035, respectively, the system will certainly be more expensive. But we are also talking about the extended responsibility of the manufacturer. This is what the Ministry is working on, and I think it's very expected by everyone. The introduction of this system should reduce costs, because part of the waste that we cannot cope with today, because it contains a high-energy fraction, and there are no plants that do this, will have to be the packaging manufacturer. The point is that these packages are suitable for processing. So that this resident, but also the local government, should have some relief from it. This is what the government has been waiting for for a long time.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u125	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Climate and Environment has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u126	Dear Marshal! Dear Senators! I'll answer that question right away. Nothing will change for the residents. This is an organisational issue, it is the implementation of 4 directives, so-called. the waste package. And this is one-to-one implementation, we do not go beyond the scope of EU regulations. The Act implements rules on definitions, harmonisation of concepts, legal issues, as in other countries of the European Union. The aim is for the system to use the definitions that exist in the countries of the European Union. As the Senator rapporteur pointed out with regard to the addition of this system, the extended producer responsibility will be introduced. A bail system that we are not obliged to pay under EU rules... Nevertheless, this project is being implemented and is currently waiting for approval by the new management of the Ministry of Climate and Environment. Right after the Minister's approval, the project will see the light of day. We've already introduced his assumptions. These are 1.5-litre bottles for multi-use glass and PET bottles up to 3 l. We are considering supplementing this with aluminum, but in the case of packaging of this type there is a high level of collection without a bail system, which is of course due to the high value of the raw material, but perhaps this should be supplemented, because many questions appear in this respect. We will not impose whether this is to be a collection through slots or a different character, entrepreneurs themselves will decide which form is the best economically. The imposition of one form would result in unnecessary cost increases, and that is of course what we want to avoid. As for the extended producer responsibility, we are after a public consultation. At the moment, we update the project after accepting some of the comments we received. The project is, I will not hide it, quite difficult because it concerns many interest groups, concerns self-government, of course concerns residents, concerns the organisation of recovery, concerns introductions and contains a number of elements that are expected to cause, which is most important, also sealing the system. The system, which is theoretically functioning today, unfortunately is not satisfactory for us, we have doubts about the confirmations of recycling, therefore the creation of a regulator and the addition of a waste database with an additional module on recycling confirmations will give us the opportunity to track the waste stream from the beginning to its administration to recycling. And going back to the waste package... We wanted him to be separated from the extended responsibility of the producer, because the discussion would take place a little bit on a different level, and we already want to fully implement the commitment that comes from membership of the European Union, i.e. the so-called. precipitation package, 4 waste hierarchy directives on these definitions. And once again, I'm going to stress the costs, because it was a very interesting question from the senator: the costs here are not related as if... This is a change of definition and an issue of organisational aspects, not something that will result in an increase in costs. By the way, we need to carry out this implementation because we want to add an extended producer responsibility, and then we plan to make the funds go into the system, to fill in the investment gap and to stop the dynamics of prices for waste, which is very important because what we are seeing today is primarily the result of a change in the organisational character of... Well, five containers that came out, it's not a Polish idea, it's an invention. The European Commission. Yeah, but I think that's another discussion. So I answer this question: as a result of the regulation, we do not see this system to be used up, so that it would be passed on to the final customer in terms of the prices for the collection of waste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u127	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have taken the floor. For the sake of order, I inform you that the senators Alexander Szwed, Władysław Komarnicki, Mieczysław Golba, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Danuta Jazłowiecka, Janusz Pęcherz and Wadi Tyszkiewicz presented their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you, government representatives. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Belarus on social security, signed in Warsaw on 13 February 2019. The text of the Act is contained in print No 527, and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 527 A and 527 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Jan Filip Libicki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u128	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy discussed the Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Belarus and the Republic of Poland on social security on 21 October this year. I would like to inform you that the result of the vote was as follows: four votes in favour, no one against, three senators abstained. The government at the meeting of our committee was represented by Minister Schmidt of the Ministry of the Family and Minister Addicz of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Shortly, what's the deal with this bill? The aim is to ensure that citizens of both countries have access to full social security benefits due to their payment of contributions. The conditions for the acquisition of these rights shall be the calculation of the premium periods. Citizens of States Parties to the Agreement will be subject to the same legislation, not subject to citizenship. Cash benefits due to nationals of both Contracting Parties may not be reduced or withheld. This regulation shall not be subject to unemployment benefit or to special treatment. Family benefits have also been excluded from this, and at the request of the Minister of Health this does not include in-kind health benefits, e.g. the right to rehabilitation and hospital care in the framework of health insurance. As regards the discussion that took place at the committee's meeting, two questions were actually raised. I took the liberty of thanking the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for a slightly different, but related matter, namely that our limited staff in Belarus actually issue humanitarian visas quite efficiently. I met people who used such visas myself. This agreement, if ratified, will also help them in some way. My second question was the following. Today, there are about 60 thousand Belarusians working in Poland who would benefit from this regulation. I asked how many Poles would receive such benefits the other way. As Minister Addicz said it was sensitive information, I will receive a written reply. The doubt raised by President Magdalena Kochan concerned the date of ratification of the agreement. She was, so to speak, concluded in 2019. As the Marshal has said, an administrative agreement was signed in 2020. Today we ratify it at a very difficult time. To say that we have a tight relationship with Belarus is not to say anything. Madam Kochan pointed out that it was worthwhile to carry out this ratification process when these tense relations were not there. Today, it may seem as if, so to speak, the legitimacy of Alexander Lukashenka's regime. The answer from the Ministry was, firstly, that it was an agreement with the Belarusian state and not with the President, who, so to speak, considered himself president because he was elected in a fraudulent election. Secondly, the government wants to show the Belarusian side that civilised democracies work differently, so to speak. Therefore, we are ready to meet the expectations of Belarusian citizens who come to Poland, also for political reasons. So much for the work of the family committee on 21 October this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u129	Thank you very much, Senator. Stay here. [[Yeah, yeah.]] I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Alexander Sweden, to present a report from the committee's place.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u130	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union a report on the bill on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Belarus on social security signed in Warsaw on 13 February 2019 on which the committee was sitting at its eighty-seventh meeting on 27 October this year. The purpose of the Act is to agree to the ratification by the President of the Republic of Poland of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Belarus on social security signed in Warsaw on 13 February 2019. Maybe I won't discuss this bill more widely. I'm gonna refer here to basically two points. The first is that the binding of the Republic of Poland's social security agreement with the Republic of Belarus aims to meet social expectations in this area, to solve the important problems of citizens of the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Belarus arising from the absence of such an agreement, as well as to create better conditions for the development of Polish-Belarusian economic cooperation. The right to social security is a fundamental human right. The implementation of this right is primarily served by national internal social security systems of individual countries. However, they are not always able to provide full insurance coverage, especially for persons changing their place of employment or residence during their professional activity. So much for justification. Senator Libicki mentioned which benefits are not subject to this. I'm just gonna make a quick mention that the deal is gonna... I'll list those benefits she's entitled to. The Agreement provides for the coverage of the cash benefits for the loss of employment of unemployment benefits; sickness and maternity benefits; old age pensions; incapacity to work This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, The Agreement also contains substantive provisions relating to the various areas of social security covered by it. About the committee meeting... The Act was adopted by the Sejm on 14 October by a majority of votes, with 435 members in favour, 9 against and 1 abstention. At its eighty-seventh meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union on 27 October this year. After the presentation of the project by the Deputy Minister of Family and Social Policy Anna Schmidt, four questions were asked. On the first, Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka, the reasons for disabling family benefits and financing hospital stays, the Minister replied that family benefits were excluded at the request of the Belarusian party and, as far as the financing of hospital stays is concerned, this is in line with the health contribution insurance. On the second question, about the guarantee that the Belarusian party will comply with the subject matter of the agreement, the Minister replied that the monitoring of the provisions of the law is planned, but it will be possible once the law is ratified and it will be the law in force. In response to another 2 questions, the chairman of the commission of Bogdan Klich, about the state of ratification on the part of Belarus and the number of Belarusians in Poland benefiting from this Act, the Minister stated that the law was ratified by the Belarusian party on 15 November 2019 and indicated the number of approximately 60 000 Belarusians for whom social security contributions are paid and who will be subject to this law. The law was adopted unanimously by 5 votes in favour, which is why on behalf of the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union I request the adoption of the Act on ratification of the agreement between the Republic of Belarus and the Republic of Poland on social security signed in Warsaw on 13 February 2019. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u131	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Bogdan Borusewicz. There you go, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u132	However, I would like to ask, what is the state of ratification on the Belarusian side? I heard the ratification was done. But did the president of that time sign it? Because I will remind you that the agreement on small border traffic between Poland and Belarus is suspended for several years. She's been through the whole ratification procedure, but the president didn't sign it. It has therefore not entered into legal trading. Did the then President of Belarus sign it? Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]] [[If I may...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u133	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u134	This was at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. Mr. Marshal, in answer to the question, I will give the answer that we received at the level of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the Act was ratified on 15 November 2019 and the Belarusian side was waiting for the Polish side with ratification. Was it signed? Well, since it's been ratified, I think it's been signed. But I think... [[Okay, I'll ask the minister that question.]] ...details are the Minister's. [[Good. I'll ask the Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u135	The question is asked by Senator Danuta Jazłowicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u136	Thank you very much. I address the question to the rapporteur, Senator Libicki. As there is a 2-year period between the ratification by Belarus and the ratification by Poland, I would like to ask whether during this period entitled persons In view of the two-year delay of the Polish government, they were deprived of the resources that this ratification allows them to obtain.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u137	That information at the committee meeting was not communicated to us by the Ministry. I think this question should be addressed to Minister Schmidt, so to speak. [[Talking in the O.R.]] The discussion that took place at the committee's meeting and the questions that were raised in it, I allowed myself to present in my report. So that this was not discussed during our deliberations. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u138	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you, senators. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family and Social Policy and the Minister for Foreign Affairs were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome. Hello, Mrs Anna Schmidt, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u139	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I stand by what I said in both committee, senate and sejm meetings. We're aware of that... This is, in fact, a question that arose during discussions both during the Sejm meeting, in plenary and during the joint deliberations of committees in the Sejm, as well as of the Senior Policy Committee and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union in the Senate. We are aware of the political context of this agreement and how difficult the time it is to ratify it. However, following what has already been done here by the President, Senator Libicki, we treat this agreement as an interstate agreement and not an intergovernmental agreement, so we do not sign this agreement, although formally it looks like this, with the Lukashenka regime, but we sign it with the Belarusian country. That's the first line. The second issue is fundamental respect for human rights, fundamental respect for acquired rights, and one of the fundamental human rights is the right to social security and the right to benefits arising from the payment of contributions and from earned periods of contribution. This is also an important element of this agreement. This is not a civil contract, so its conclusion is not conditional on Polish or Belarusian citizenship, but is conditional on the period of payment of contributions. We are aware of the repression which the opponents on the Belarusian side are subjected to, but As already mentioned here, First of all, 60 thousand, or actually nearly 300 thousand Belarusian citizens are present in the territory of the Republic of Poland. It's a huge number, I think it's going to grow. As mentioned by the President, nearly 60 000 are persons who are subject to employment contributions, whether on the basis of a work permit or on the basis of an employment contract. Let us also remember that a lot of Polish entrepreneurs go to Belarus, because there are various kinds of investments and Polish workers leave to make these investments. It is mainly the construction industry...to be implemented in the territory of Belarus. Until now, there has been no possibility of either transferring these benefits or adding up contributions, which really violated fundamental rights. We are all equal to the law and the same conditions for the acquisition of benefits, whether because of incapacity for work, whether because of death or an accident at work or finally because of the achievement of the retirement age, should apply on one side and on the other. Meanwhile, e.g. Polish citizens who acquired social security rights in Belarus were unable to receive these benefits there, these benefits were paid on the basis of a power of attorney indicated by a Polish citizen to a person residing in the territory of the Republic of Poland or transferred to a bank account. Of course, the same situation took place on the other side, because Belarusian law, first, has not provided for the transfer of benefits outside the territory of Belarus, and secondly, did not provide for the aggregation of contributions. So because of the fundamental rights, it's what I'm going to say. I'm gonna let you use that colloquialism. It's a social damage. Well, any one of us who works... And today we're really traveling for work, not work coming to us, but it's going the other way. People travel around the world to work, also outside the European Union. And they should have, on an equal footing, like the citizens of the European Union, the right to a decent pension and decent benefits resulting from the development of these contributions. So we take this deal as And I want it to sound clear. The agreement concluded between the Republic of Belarus and the Republic of Poland, i.e. the interstate agreement. That's the first line. And the second, we want to safeguard the rights of people, including Belarusians, who will probably, if this situation continues, exceed the territory of the Republic of Poland even more. And we want to show how human rights are being implemented in democratic countries and that the right to social security is maintained, i.e. de facto to the rights acquired by every citizen, who, as we know, is governed by the Polish constitution. So I ask the senators to give their consent to ratify this agreement, because it primarily respects human rights and respects the principle of equal treatment, and not only goes against the rights of Polish citizens who will leave and work, making various investments, in the territory of Belarus, but we will also support Belarusians who will flee and flee from the territory of the Republic of Belarus. After all, they have to work and have to maintain themselves in some way. This is a huge support for them and proof that Poland is leaning on human rights, shows European standards when it comes to granting benefits to citizens also to those countries where the regime exists, not to the democratic rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u140	Thank you, Minister. Please remain on the stand for a moment. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, two questions, one specific... or actually two specific, close to each other. How many people can this agreement involve when it comes to Polish citizens? And the second question, similar: how many citizens of Belarus? The question, namely: will this agreement apply, or rather act in the case of a Belarusian citizen who worked in Poland and returned to Belarus and will receive the appropriate allowance there? Or must this agreement be ratified for those Belarusian citizens who are currently in Poland? Because I don't think so. Those who are in Poland are normally insured. And one last thing. Do you not think that after two years of non-ratification of this agreement, ratification of this agreement can now be used propagandaally by Lukashenka, in a very simple way, i.e.:oh, please, my actions are effective, Poles are beginning to meet the demands that we send to them. 'Cause it's like this deal. And you said it yourself. It will be subject to more Belarusians than Poles, and it will be those Belarusians who will return to Belarus.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u142	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u143	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senator, as regards the principle of submission to these claims, we must remember I'll mention what I said in my speech a few minutes ago. The fact that, of course, Belarusian citizens who legally, on the basis of a contract of employment or a work permit work in the territory of the Republic of Poland, are actually insured and earn these benefits, but if they wish to return to the territory of Belarus, this benefit will not be transferable because there was no contract that would regulate the transfer of benefits. One of the elements of ratification of this agreement is, first, the summation of contributions Thus, regardless of where a national of one or another State will work, contributions under a contract of employment within the territory of the other party will be added to the benefit, so that automatically the benefit will be greater, secondly, can be transferred. Today neither Polish law nor Belarusian law allows it. That's the first line. Two. As far as the number of citizens is concerned, if I remember correctly, to be honest, at the moment the Ministry of the Family does not have the data, how many Polish citizens are in the territory of Belarus. I think he's here... There is no minister, but there is a representative, the director of the Legal and Treaty Department at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so if the senator would be kind enough to allow us to respond... We'll check the data if there are any. 'Cause I think it's more of a question to the Foreign Office and we'll answer it in writing. As regards the number of Belarusians who reside on the territory The Republic of Poland It's already happened in my speech, but, of course, I'll repeat it. This is about 300 thousand, according to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the number of people with Belarusian citizenship who reside in the territory of the Republic of Poland, including beneficiaries, so to speak, is about 60 thousand, 59 thousand with a piece. And these are the people for whom contributions are paid, so they are the beneficiaries of the contract, i.e. they are subject to social insurance. Because the agreement is not of a civil nature, it is of a social nature, i.e. it is as if the beneficiary is a person who is subject to social security contributions. As far as the political context is concerned, then... well, President Lukashenka can say whatever he wants to say according to old, totalitarian, communist, propaganda slogans. Of course, it is highly likely that this will be perceived or that it can be perceived as a gesture of a certain submission of the Republic of Poland and the Polish State towards the Belarusian side. The position of the government, which I have the honour to present to you, to you and to the senators, is obvious. We are talking here about respect for human rights, respect for the rights not only of the Polish side, because let us remember that those Belarusians who come Their number is increasing in the territory of the Republic of Poland, in fact... The benefits that will be paid to them... Let me rephrase that. It is clear from the calculations of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy that the amount of revenue to our state budget due to paid social security contributions and taxes paid by Belarusians on our territory is almost twice as high as the costs to be borne by the Polish State. That's the first line. Second thing. I think that the human rights that I will refer to and the European standards that we want to show here... I take it a bit as a political gesture from the Republic of Poland. We show what humanitarianism is, what respect for fundamental human rights should be like. So this is not a gesture of submission or service, as the senator suggested here, but a gesture of manifesting what rights are in democratic countries and how citizens should be treated regardless of what authority and regime they operate in. In a special way, this agreement concerns those citizens who will come here looking for asylum and assistance from the State, a member of the European Union, fleeing the Lukashenka regime. So that I view it as a manifestation of human rights and a demonstration of what a policy that respects human rights, including the right to social security, should look like. I see no submission to the Lukashenka regime here. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u144	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u145	You tried to put something in my mouth that I didn't say. I didn't claim that I thought it was a gesture of submission, of subordinates, but that this could be presented by... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Anna Schmidt: Yes, I understand. I was quoting a possible statement. Yes.]] Great. But what's important is what you say, not what you supplement. That's the first line. Second thing. It must be made clear that: human rights Beautiful, Belarusians come to us Very well, they're fleeing the regime Even better. And this agreement is not necessary for those who are present in Poland. They'll need it when they get back to Belarus. Well, yes or no? Yes? Say it, because it's... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Anna Schmidt: Yes. And do you think President Lukashenka is forever alive? We are all counting on it, Senator, that democracy in Belarus will one day prevail and that these citizens will want to return.]] But that's what... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Anna Schmidt: I deserve their rights.]] Can I finish my speech, or can I finish my question? Do you not think that, just now, during this period of very hostile actions controlled or inspired by the Belarusian authorities, ratification of this agreement will be politically unfavourable? I'm not talking about these people. They won't go back to Belarus, they won't benefit if they continue to do so, and Lukashenka will rule unless you want them there, in quotes, to push them out. No. Please reschedule the control and think this way: we will help these people then, as they stay in Poland, here they will possibly stabilise their situation, and if they want to return to Belarus, it is not for this regime. That should be our thinking. This deal doesn't work that way. She is indifferent to people who stay in Poland, to Belarusians. After all, they are subject to health insurance etc., etc., because they work in Poland. We encourage them to come here, leave this regime. But on the other hand, it can, as I say, be used like this. That's my opinion. We'll stick to our sentences.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u146	I feel like it's already polemic, so... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Anna Schmidt: Could I have another sentence, Mr. Marshal...]] Of course, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u147	Dear Senator, I'm still maintaining what I've said. The agreement protects social rights, human rights for both parties. We can't assume... The Polish State, the Republic of Poland is probably the best proof of this, because Poles who went away looking for asylum, fled from the communist regime and the power of the Polish People's Republic, returned to the country because... [[You don't remember the PRL, the way it was. Just leave it alone, okay?]] I remember very well, I was 11 years old at the time, Mr. Senator. [[You want the last word, but why?]] I would like to make it clear to you that the Lukashenka regime is not eternal, and just as communism in Poland has fallen, and our fellow countrymen have returned to the country, the power of Lukashenka in Belarus will end in the same way. We are all counting on this, the international opinion and all countries, first of all the EU countries are counting on it, Senator, that it will someday cease to be a regime state and the citizen of Belarus will have the right to... Senator, you asked a question, and you don't want to hear the answer. [[But I didn't ask the question, I don't know if you noticed.]] You asked me a question, so I answer. [[You know, that talk about the PRL...]] [[Mr. Senator...]] [[Ma'am, a very simple matter: we know who will be after Łukaszence, it may be the successor appointed by Putin.]] [[Mr. Senator...]] Don't speculate. [[Mr. Senator, can you listen to me for a second?]] [[Yes.]] Then maybe we don't read from the fuss, we wish Belarus democracy and we wish that these Belarusians could return to the country if they wanted, using acquired rights, Mr. Senator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u148	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-six of the agenda: the Act on the ratification of the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Malta on the amendment of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Malta on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes, drawn up at La Valetta on 7 January 1994, as amended by the Protocol signed in Warsaw on 6 April 2011. The text of the Act is contained in print No 528 and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 528 A and 528 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Mr. Marshal, I have such a rationalization request. Could I have these two billings... You can't? [[You can't do that. As there has not been a decision on their joint consideration at committee meetings before, this is not possible.]] Well, that's too bad. I'll use the same words twice. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! According to Art. 89 constitutions of this kind of agreement, ratification of the protocol between the government of the Republic of Poland and another state requires a law, i.e. requires the approval of the Sejm and the Senate. The bill, in which we agree to ratify the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Malta, concerns practically 2 problems: the problem of double taxation and the problem of preventing tax evasion. These 2 elements have received a positive opinion from the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, because we believe that what concerns cooperation with all countries, and especially with the countries of the European Union... is that all countries should have signed double taxation agreements, but also cooperate in tax avoidance cases by taxpayers. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance welcomes this draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u150	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Because Senator Leszek. Mr Czarnobaj presented the content of this protocol very precisely, and I would just stress that at its meeting on 27 October, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union unanimously recommended that the Senate accept this ratification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u152	Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Finance and the Minister for Foreign Affairs were authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Would a government representative like to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: Absolutely. Mind if I take a seat?]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u153	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to strongly recommend the adoption of this ratification, the agreement to ratify the two agreements we are discussing. and Malta, and the Netherlands. Well, in the case of Malta, the double taxation agreement was concluded in 1994. It has already been amended twice, in 2011 and 2017, and we are now complementing it with further modern tools to combat international tax avoidance, which we were obliged to implement in 2017 by the multilateral MLI Convention adopted at the OECD in Paris. Here there are some very good tools, including above all the anti-tax avoidance clause, which operates in bilateral agreements. Previously, it functioned only in us, internally, and here comes this element. It will not be possible to abuse contracts in order to obtain undue tax benefits. Next: real estate clause, also a great tool. Finally, it will be possible to effectively combat tax avoidance on income from real estate sales in Poland. This is avoided in such a way that, instead of simply selling such a property in Poland, moving it from one entity to another and paying tax on the resulting income, companies decide to set up a company in the Netherlands or Malta and transfer the shares of the company that owns the Polish real estate there. In this way, some minimum tax is paid abroad, and no tax is paid in Poland at all. This tax is much lower because it only concerns the sale of shares, which do not have to be as freezed as the tax on the often very large increase in the value of real estate. Well, it could even involve a skyscraper in the city center, so that the real estate clause is a very important tool. In view of the fact that both of these mechanisms have been included in both of these agreements, I would like to ask warmly for the support of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u154	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. For the record, Senator Swede has made his speech to the record. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-seven of the agenda: the Act on the ratification of the Protocol between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the amendment of the Convention between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes signed in Warsaw on 13 February 2002 and the Protocol signed in Warsaw on 13 February 2002. The text of the Act is contained in print No 529 and the Commission's reports In print Nos 529 A and 529 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u155	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! These are the same arguments as the previous law, the same legal arguments concerning the scope and functioning of the law, as well as what we do in general. I'll just add what the Minister said. In order not to say the same twice, I would just add that this law is beneficial for taxpayers from the point of view of avoiding double taxation, but less beneficial for those who avoid paying taxes, especially income tax, to the extent mentioned by the Minister. That is why the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance unanimously approved this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u156	Thank you very much. And I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Danuta Jazłowiecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u157	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Both Senator Leszek Czarnobaj and Minister Czarnobaj presented the Act on ratification of the protocol between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of the Netherlands in very detail. I would just like to present the position of the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union who met on 10 October. They unanimously recommend the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u158	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Finance were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u159	Absolutely. There's only gonna be two words here, too. The agreement with the Kingdom of the Netherlands was signed in 2002, so it also requires addition to the latest provisions of the multilateral agreement concluded in the OECD field. And just as the Senators of the rapporteur have rightly pointed out, this means bringing the latest, best standards into bilateral tax agreements. So that I strongly recommend accepting this in the presented form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u160	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-eighth of the agenda: the second reading of the bill amending the Act on health care, health resorts and areas of health care and spa communities. Let me remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators. It is included in print No 522, and the committee's report In print No 522 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Janusz Gromek, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u161	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The law applies to Polish spas, all spa communities, which are From sea to mountain, from east to west. It concerns an amendment to the Law on the amendment of the Act on Spa Health, in which Article is inserted. 49a: In the years 2022 to 2023 the spa community carrying out the tasks referred to in Article. 46, receives subsidies from the State budget equal to the proceeds of the health resort fee collected in the spa in 2019. The point is that spa communities, collecting spa fees, as if they looked at the fees charged in 2021 and 2022. Absolutely this will be reduced because there was no... spa, the sanatorium was closed and there was no bedding. Therefore, there was a very short discussion at the committee meeting. There were virtually no votes against, and there were only votes in favour that the spa communities should not lose these funds and be able to keep Polish spas in very good condition, and not only visual. The idea is to heal Polish society. I would like to ask my fellow Members to pass this bill. And I invite you to Polish spas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u162	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and an authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Janusz Gromek to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u163	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I was, because I am a member of the Legislative Committee, at the joint committee meeting, and there was such a charge that the government did not support the spa communities. And even this allegation was made regarding the Government Local Investment Fund. I'd like to ask. Of course, if you have such data, how many spa communities have received support from the Government Local Investment Fund, now the Government Fund of Poland Loads: the Strategic Investment Programme, and how much assistance they received during the pandemic.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u164	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u165	Dear Marshal, High Senate! I don't have data relating to the Government Local Investment Fund and now to the Strategic Investment Programme. However, with regard to the issue of support for local government units, which also have the status of a spa, it appears from our estimates that more than PLN 344 million will go to the spa municipalities, which were mentioned in the speech of the Senate Legislative Commission addressed to the Minister of Finance, for additional funds, PLN 8 billion. And in 2022, after the introduction of the Polish Order and stabilisation solutions which strengthen the local government units, the total revenue of these spa municipalities from PIT and CIT, after supplementing these funds from PLN 8 billion with additional funding from subsidies will be almost 5%. higher than the revenues forecasted by the same municipalities in the multiannual financial forecast, which was prepared prior to the announcement of the Polish Łódź. That would be about PLN 446 million. And here I can say that no spa commune in 2022 will have less income from PIT and CIT after, of course, addition to this subsidy of PLN 8 billion from those that she herself predicted before the Polish Ład. In addition, some of the spa communities... also at the moment I am not able to tell you how much, but will receive the funds, still this year, for scavengerage and drainage. This would only apply to local government units where this level of drainage and drainage is less than a certain level in the country. In any case, I would like to point out that the amendment of the Act on the Income of Local Government Units would allow even without the Senate's initiative, if the local government had agreed, to make such compensation as was mentioned in the Senate draft law, from the resources of the general subsidy reserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u166	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Alexander Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u167	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The proposed law aims to grant the spa municipalities a grant from the state budget equal to the proceeds of the spa fee levied in 2019. At this point, however, I would like to refer not to the amendment itself, but to the unfounded allegations made at the meeting of the Joint Legislative Commission, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance at the government's address, that it does not support spa communities during the pandemic, that under the Government Fund for Local Investments previously and now the Government Fund of Poland Loads: the Strategic Investment Programme of spa communities did not receive support. I will refer to this from the perspective of my region and the Kłodzki district mentioned here many times. The Kłodzki County is the largest district of Lower Silesia and one of the largest in Poland, and next to the fact that it is one of the most beautiful districts in Poland, with numerous monuments, beautiful forests and mountains, it consists of 14 municipalities, 4 of which are spa communities. These are Kudowa-Zdrój, Polanica-Zdrój, Duszniki-Zdrój and Lądek-Zdrój. And the fifth spa, Długopole-Zdrój, in Bystrica Kłodzka commune. Thus, within the framework of the Government Fund for Local Investments earlier and now the Government Fund of Poland Loads: Strategic Investment Program the following investments were supported: Bystrica Kłodzka, the Government Fund for Local Investment... I'm not going to list everyone here because there's really a lot of these investments. All tranches of total investment from the Government Local Investment Fund amounted to almost PLN 12.5 million. Strategic Investment Programme: over PLN 7 million one tranche, and another More than PLN 4.7 million. Budowa-Zdrój: Government Local Investment Fund - all total tranches for investments are PLN 4.2 million, Government Strategic Investment Fund - PLN 4.7 million. Duszniki: The Government Local Investment Fund over PLN 5.5 million, Government Strategic Investment Fund Nearly 9 million zlotys. Land-Zdrój: The Government Fund for Local Investments (PLN 6.3 million); here I will remind you that in the previous term there were among others. support for large investments in geothermals. And also Polanica-Zdrój: The Government Local Investment Fund totals all 4 tranches to PLN 3 million 900 thousand, the Government Strategic Investment Fund to PLN 8.5 million. Thanks to this help the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki could carry out dozens of important investments, important from the perspective of local authorities, but most important from the perspective of residents. However, let us remember that this is not all, because we still have historical money for local roads under the Local Roads Fund, there are dozens of other programs, there is a recent refund, reimbursement for the difference in income from PIT and CIT, which was mentioned by the Minister. For all these actions of the government, for all these programmes, for the investments that will be created, as a senator representing this region already for the second term, I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Government very warmly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u168	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Kwiatkowski. [[Voice in the room: He's on the phone talking.]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Kwiatkowski...]] [[Voice in the room: You don't talk on the phone.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u169	I'm sorry. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank the initiators of this bill very warmly. There wasn't a situation here where, to say, the government was criticized for it. It is clear that there was financial support, e.g. from financial shields, for companies or support, although in various ways shared, from government funds within individual tranches, especially in the second, this allocation of funds was often discretionary and raised doubts. But in this case, we are talking about relatively small resources on the scale of the state budget. Ladies and gentlemen, the spa fee is a fee, which is of course used by the spa. In this group there is also the youngest spa in Poland, a thermal spa, founded 9 years ago, i.e. Uniejów in the Łódź voivodship. Let me remind you that the loss of the spa fee I was just having a conversation with the mayor. In this spa it was almost 1/3 of the fee originally charged. In this small town that has 3,000 inhabitants, all this infrastructure... It is not a town located in a historically interesting tourist place, it lies not by the sea, it lies not in the mountains, but in the Łódź voivodship. And for 8 months 23 restaurants in this village were unused, 2 thousand beds were unused. And we must also remember that the paid spa fee has a very precise purpose. She can only be spent on spa infrastructure. Now, at a time when we hope to be able to deal with the fourth wave of pandemics soon, this spa infrastructure, which helps people especially during the rehabilitation period, including pulmonary diseases, will be extremely important. It needs to be expanded. because these are the health needs of Poles. I therefore strongly support the adoption of this legislative initiative. I have no doubt that it is needed. Accurate and precise talks with the representatives of one of the spas, in this case of the Łódź Uniejow, made me aware of how this initiative is expected by the burglars of the spa communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u170	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Gromek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u171	Okay, I'm just gonna turn my phone off. Mr. Marshal, I'll address Senator Swede. I'm so glad you listed those spas that got those millions. Absolutely just applaud it. But this bonus money has nothing to do with investments and the allocation of funds from funds that lasted, like, a year or a half. You named the spa resorts. I say again: it's nice that they got the money, but there are spa towns such as Kolobrzeg and others that had zero of it. Maybe that's what the glazers of these spas were referring to. But let's not discuss it anymore. I am glad that you also supported this project, because, as I said, Polish spas not only give satisfaction that someone is going there and will dance on a pipe, but also treat Polish society. Let's stick to this to support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u172	Thank you very much. Senator Swede, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u173	High Izbo! In fact, I have two opinions, I just want to address this. First of all, Senator Kwiatkowski was accused of such a charge. I'm not saying it's because of your chairman, but it's because of the local government. I'd like to refer to what the senator said about Kolobrzeg. I did not analyze the situation of all health resorts outside my region, but I know that at least on the first tranche from the Government Local Investment Fund it was an algorithm and all local governments in Poland received money. So that there was no situation that someone got 0 zlotys, and such accusations, false allegations, were formulated at a joint committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u174	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We begin to consider item twenty-nine of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 400th anniversary of the Battle of Chocim. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 491, and the report is published in print No 491 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, to present the report of the draft resolution to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u175	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Invited guests! This year we celebrate the equal 400th anniversary of Chocim's great defense. Why do I use that name? Because there were really 2 battles at Chocim: one in 1621, and this is what we do in this resolution, the other in 1673. The other one we call, that's what it's commonly called, the great battle of Chocim. In the first battle, Polish troops, combined with the Lithuanian and Russian armies, defended Chocim, stationed in the camp in Chocimi and in the camp below him. In the second battle, the Polish troops attacked the Turkish troops who cast the Chocimów fortress. Both battles were won. The latter, in a significant military way, the first one we are dealing with, has resolved a neutral outcome in terms of military issues, but from a political point of view it has been beneficial for us, it has been victorious. Let me read the text of the resolution and then tell you a little bit about the committee meeting itself. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the 400th anniversary of the Battle of Chocim. The Battle of Chocim, fought from 2 September to 9 October 1621, was a key moment in the history of Europe and Christian civilization. 400 years ago, a powerful Ottoman army stood at the gates of Europe, at the borders of our country. Muslim troops were commanded by the Sultan of the Ottoman Empire. II. On the side of the Republic, the crown banners under the command of King Władysław Zygmunt Vasa, previously chosen by the great Moscow Tsar, the later king of Poland Władysław IV, Lithuanian banners under the command of the great Lithuanian captain Jan Karol Chodkiewicz and Zaporozkie troops under the command of the commander of Cossack Piotr Konaszewicz-Sahajdaczny. This battle decided not only the fate and future of Poles, Russians and Lithuanians, but also the whole Christian Europe, which was headed by Muslim troops. Chocim Victoria contributed to the creation of a vision of the Republic of the Troy of Nations, which was realized in 1658 by the Hadadian Union. It did not fully enter into force as a result of Russia's countermeasures, but the planned merger of the Crown, the Grand Duchy of Lithuania and the Grand Duchy of Russia became a proof of responsibility, wisdom and cooperation between the multinational elites building the First Republic. The mighty, victorious and united Republic, due to its struggle against the expansion of Islam, has been declared the premier of Christianity throughout Europe. Victory at Chocim after 400 years is a reason to be proud of national history, but also a reason to look into the future. This anniversary is also important for the Lublin Triangle established in 2020. The initiative, which refers to the Lublin Union of 1569 creating the foundation of the power of the First Republic. The Senate of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to troops fighting at Chocim in 1621 in the defence of the Republic, including the deceased during armed operations to the commander-in-chief of the great Lithuanian captain, the husband of state, the chief and politician, Senator Jan Karol Chodkiewicz. The Senate of the Republic of Poland believes that events from 400 years ago should be a signpost for cooperation between the heirs of the great Victoria I Republic of Poland: Poles, Belarusians, Lithuanians and Ukrainians. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. So much for the text of the resolution. At the first reading, a rather lively discussion on the original draft in print no. 491 took place at the meeting of the Legislative Commission. It was attended by people who, by reason of this, I would call it, historical interests were involved in shaping this draft resolution. Who was involved in this discussion? Namely, these were the following senators: President Marek Borowski, Mr Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski, Senator Ewa Matecka, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, Senator Marek Komorowski... I think that's all of them. Oh, and Senator Magdalena Lovers. Several amendments were included in the original text. Some of them were accepted by me in self-correction mode, some were voted out. The majority was accepted, only 1 of these amendments were rejected. In general, the amendments did not change the shape of the proposed resolution, but simply reduced the number of appeals to the present reality, i.e. the number of references that led us to present times. So much for working on the committee. If you have any questions, I'd be happy to answer them. Finally, I would like to thank the inspirational and even the creators of this project very warmly. Its contribution to the content of the project is very clear Mr Daniel Jan Potocki, President of the Association of the Nobles of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u176	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Jerzy Czerwinski to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you, Senator. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Raphael the locksmith.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u177	Mr. Marshal! Tall, absent senate! What an extraordinary buckle we've got! After all, the first point of our meeting 3 days ago contained the statement of the Polish pre-murder of Christianity, on the occasion of the bill that we created to build a dam. And the Chrome War is the moment from which this concept began to function in circulation and began to be used in relation to the Republic of Poland. Of course, historical events have taken place. Well, there was an invasion of the Tatars in 1241, all the way to Legnica. It was the devastation of Podola commemorated by our great poet: the eternal vulgarity and unrewarded / Pity, the Pole: the desolate land / Podolska lies, and the glory of sin, / Over the Niestra sitting, divides the spoil of pitiful. And then it was a great event, a battle in Vienna, decades later. But there's a moment, there's Chocimia's defense in 1621. What an impressive impression it was on the contemporaries, we can judge after what it left in Polish literature, and in this area I would like to follow this trail with you. And we have from this event the first Polish epoch, whose history can be the subject of a separate story. For almost two centuries he was known only in a manuscript. It was only printed at the beginning of the 19th century. There were even problems identifying the author, but in the end it was clearly stated by Karol Szajnoch that the author was Wacław Potocki. I am talking about the Chocim War, which is also, in fragments, a reading for young people. And it's worth it, because even though it's written in the old Polish language... It is known under the popular title of the Chocim War, but the title given by the author is the Chocim War Transakcya, and the Chocim War is meant to mean the course of the Chocim War. The song may contain phrases that are sometimes illegible to us. I'm going to appeal to one of them: thaw is starvation, so a lion from the piercing will be a hungry lion. The Chrome War describes the context of the battle, how it happened. It is based on the diary of a participant in this defence. It contains characteristics of heroes, but it also contains great batalistic fragments that will allow us to find ourselves as if on the battlefield. The Cossacks lie long, so as a hunter For a fox and a wolf when he sees a flock of sheep Not before this one's out, that one's off the leash, until they come near, until they are sure of their prey; So his Cossacks hold on to the fortress, Not before they're revealed where they're meant to be. There will be no enemy: so fire into his eyes. And from the cannons and the handgun, they're out of bounds. Chodkiewicz and his bare bellies will destroy them. When he has crushed the trees, he will add more mischief, And when he had obtained the scabbards, as a lion of the pitch, The first bisurman is out of his mind. You'll forget paganism and you'll be terribly surprised. That Cossacks shoot and that they're still alive, That all their tearing down works not; Sadly, therefore, when he has uttered his noises. Noise! If they're still gonna throw hail at you, Their fear went on to pale, Then when Chodkiewicz rides on their swarms, With their heads, the sharp sword takes off the scrolls, Doubtful of meals, ordinary tracks By sharing, they fled to their rolling stock. It won't help Muhammad and the Tsar serious, When death grabs the throat, when the heart swings, No consideration goes, one fear has eyes, As with the blood of paganism, the field will yield: For ours and Cossacks, which are strong enough for them, They're chopping, they're shooting, they're shooting, they're shooting, they're shooting, they're shooting, they're I think we're on the battlefield for a while, and this is the genius of Wenceslas Potocki. I think that the Senate as an Chamber, which every 2 years accepts the report of the Polish Language Council, deserves to be commemorated by the monument of Polish literature. And the next opportunity to commemorate the Chrome War is probably 100 years from now. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] [[Chapeau bass. The bar's high up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u178	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm impressed. Please take the floor of Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, it's rare for us to make resolutions that relate to such distant historical events, but in fact, it's perfectly justified in the case of Chocim Victoria. I would like to be in the hands of Senator Czerwiński, the advocate of this resolution, who also very bravely defended the text of this resolution during the committee's meeting, because it caused many polemics, comments, among others. because of the very wording of Christendom's pre-murder and other phrases which in this resolution are... Well, there were, you can say, raised voices, whether such a resolution is needed or not needed. I would like to express my thanks to the senator here and to say that this text, which has been able to come up with, in fact, almost in consensus during a committee meeting in which, of course, I took part, is a good text. The value of this text is that it has contexts and references to the present. This is not just a historical text, which evaluates the phenomenon described by historians, strongly recorded in our history. By the way, it was the 4th battle of Chocim, the 2 most famous is the battle of 1621 and 1673. These battles are, you can say, the heroic struggles of Poland, which confirmed the concept of Poland as a pre-murder of Christianity and gave the whole sumptuousness, especially in times of literature partitions, which somehow became apologetic towards the myth of the Kres... The myth of the Kresów of the Republic as such a land of milk and honey flowing, a land which defended Europe and the Republic against Turkish, Tartar and other armies, and at the same time was synonymous with the greatness and power of the Republic. Here it is worth adding such a thing, namely recently in literature appears... Some sociologists claim that actually these Kresas were such an area of colonization by the Republic, they try to present it from the point of view of political correctness in such a way that we were not a colonial country that had colonies, but what we did in the east was colonization. Well, High Izbo, here it is worth going back to the times of the Lublin Union, to 1569. As we know before, the Ukrainian lands, as it was said at that time, were Russia a territorial part of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania. The Lithuanian princes were cleaning up there because it was part of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania. I may be surprised why these south-eastern ends of the Republic became an integral part of the Kingdom of Poland. For a very simple reason. Well, the Russian nobles themselves wanted to be under Poland, not under the despotic power of Lithuanian princes and Lithuanian elites who had relations under themselves in that area. This is the best proof that the thesis that is being put forward today, in the light of historical research, in the light of our knowledge, deserves to be verified. And it is not possible to make a mistake of presentism in evaluating history, i.e. modern cultural or ideological categories, because this reality should be read in the context in which these events and these facts took place. High Izbo, as Senator Czerwiński mentioned, was not actually drawn to the end of this concept, which was reflected and recorded by the Hadadian Union in 1658. It was a big problem that the Eastern policy of the Lithuanian-Polish state in the 17th century for various reasons This isn't a historical seminar, so we can discuss it in detail. It was a failure. I would like to remind you that under the union of Hadzia bishops from Ukraine gained seats in the Senate. It was a personal union which was intended to strengthen the Federation character of the Republic of Poland. As regards the various privileges which were granted to political elites living in that area, which were largely so-called. Rusinian, because it wasn't... Well, colonization, or maybe not so much colonization, as the influx from central Poland many families created these Magnatic fortunes then there. But it was originally a Russian nobleman. So that this great project was unfortunately not realized. We know that this was one of the causes of the subsequent fall of the Republic of Poland in the 18th century. Nevertheless, the glory of the Polish weapon and what was accomplished, these great victories of the 17th century, one can say, the last great victories of the Republic of Poland, namely Chocim one and the other, but also the Vienna Victoria, and other great battles, clashes with the Swedish... That was the glory and legend of the power of the Republic. The present state in the first half of the 17th century was undoubtedly one of the largest powers of Europe at that time. Once again, I would like to thank the senator for making this case so consistently and expressing his appreciation to the committee that he has succeeded in drawing up a text that I believe is acceptable to everyone in this House. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u180	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Alexander Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u181	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! The battle between the army of the Republic of Poland Jan Karol Chodkiewicz and the Turkish army of Sultan Osman II at Chocim was undoubtedly one of the most crucial battles in the history of the Republic of Poland, but also in the history of Europe. The siege which lasted from 2 September to 9 October 1621 ended with the victory of the Polish army, and the culmination was the signing of a treaty confirming the previous findings of 1617. On such an occasion, which is the 400th anniversary of the Battle of Chocim, it is worth to bring closer the figure of one of the greatest leaders of the Republic of Poland, such as Jan Karol Chodkiewicz. Well, Jan Karol Chodkiewicz, the crest of Kościesz, was the son of the Marshal of the Great Duchy of Lithuania and the chestlain of Vilnius Jan and Krystyna Zborowskia the crest of Jastrzębiec, the sister of the executed Samuel Zborowski. At the age of eight, by his father's side, he watched the war for the first time. From 1573 he was educated at the Jesuit College in Vilnius and at the Jesuit-led Vilnius Academy. Between 1586 and 1589 he studied philosophy and law at the Jesuit Academy in Ingolstadt. He traveled in Italy, visited Malta, where he studied military knowledge. At 36 years of age and a thorough knowledge of artillery, weapons and siege art, he embarked on his first war expedition, which he was no longer just a passive witness but an active participant. He was awarded in the siege of the Cossack rolling stock near Łubnia, thanks to which he received the office of the Lithuanian presenter. Since 1599 he has been a gentile elder. In 1600 he took part in the expedition of Jan Zamoyski to Moldova, after which, for his war merit, he received a multi-purpose old age. Since 1601 he's been fighting the Swedish in Inflanta. He was in charge of the victorious battle of Kokenhausen, resisting the Swedish storms, defending Riga, and taking part in effective sieges of Wolmar, Felin and the White Stone. In October 1602, he took over Jan Zamoyski's command and then took over the Swedish Dorpat, who surrendered in April 1603. The Swedes then gave Chodkiewicz 80 guns. In September 1604, with only 2,000 300 soldiers, he defeated a Swedish army under the White Stone with as many as 7,000 soldiers. There were 3,000 Swedes in the square, and Chodkiewicz scored 21 flags. He was appreciated for this, and in March 1605 he became a great Lithuanian captain. He also received the Dorpack Old Town in Inflanta to tie him more closely to this province. When a new Swedish army and a besieged Riga landed in Inflanta in the middle of September 1605, Chodkiewicz hurried to rescue her. It ended in a battle at Kircholm on September 27, where, with 3,000 700 soldiers, he beat approx. 3-fold A larger Swedish army. It was a real pogrom! The losses of Swedes were counted on nearly 9 thousand people, with losses of the Lithuanian-Polish army amounting to about 100 killed. Chodkiewicz also won 60 flags. After the battle, congratulations flowed from all over Europe and even beyond. Chodkiewicz was able to keep some soldiers out of his private box thanks to his next assignment, which was particularly important when the Lithuanian and crown treasures were behind with the pay. This allowed the end of the Inflantic War in 1611 without territorial losses. In 1607, when some of the nobles were bound by Rokosz, Chodkiewicz was in favour of the king. Two years later another war began, this time with Moscow. Chodkiewicz only joined it in 1611, but not very happy. Although he managed to supply the Polish-Lithuanian crew of the Kremlin three times, at the beginning of September 1612 he did not succeed in this art, as a result of which the Polish crew capitulated. Nevertheless, in 1616 he was given another office of the Vilnius Voivodeship. It was the highest secular office in Lithuania. In the following year, he led an expedition to Moscow, which, although not completed in the city, contributed to the end of the war. The Republic came out victorious. In 1620, at the Seym, which gathered to advise on how to resist the Turkish upheaval, Chodkiewicz was entrusted with chief command. Jan Karol Chodkiewicz died in the Chocim camp on September 24, 1621. As for the importance of the triumph of the Republic of Poland in the battle of Chocim, the result of the fight decided that the plans of the Turkish-Moscow and Swedish-Moscow alliance against the Republic of Poland had fallen. Moreover, the danger on the part of Turkey has also decreased. There has been a coup in the weakened war of the Chomim empire. The dissatisfied Yanczars then killed the Sultan, and put Mustafa I in his place, ready to maintain peace with the Polish king. The great triumph of the troops of the Republic of Poland echoed loudly throughout Europe, raising its prestige. Because for the first time since the famous sea battle at Lepanto 1571, a giant and, at that time, an invincible Ottoman army seemed to have been stopped. On 24 June 1623, Pope Grzegorz XV, entitled Victoriarum gloria, congratulated King Zygmunt III Vasa on his victory. The previous day, on the other hand, the Roman Roman Pontificem Decet established on October 10 a liturgical thanksgiving for the victory of Chomim. On the 400th anniversary of this event, the Senate of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to troops fighting at Chocim in 1621, in defence of the Republic of Poland, including the commander-in-chief He died during armed operations to the great crown captain, the husband of state, the chief and politician, Senator Jan Karola Chodkiewicz. The Senate of the Republic believes that events from 400 years ago should be a signpost for cooperation between the heirs of the great Victoria I Republic: Poles, Belarusians, Lithuanians and Ukrainians. I also believe that this unique act of patriotism, valiantness and reconciliation should be particularly appreciated. Thanking Senator Jerzy Czerwiński for this initiative, I declare my full support for this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u182	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej. It's remote.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator Silesian inspired me, so I will quote my favorite author, Sienkiewicz, who in the initial phase of That's how I remember today, at Chocim, twenty-seven years ago! As Husaria was going under Lubomirski to attack the Yankers, the bullocks in their trenches threw their hats up and shouted until the earth shuddered, to the Saharan: "Puskay, bat'ku, with Lachami umirata!." Unfortunately, the end of fire and sword is less optimistic. The last two sentences: The deserted Republic, the deserted Ukraine. The wolves were wading in the ruins of old cities and once thriving countries were like a great tomb. Hatred grew into the heart and poisoned the blood of the family. When you bump these two quotes together, I'm afraid you have to tell yourself... My previous speakers said that our Republic, actually four nations, was indeed a wonderful project. Unfortunately, too nationalism and too... [[Voice from the hall: in the 17th century?]] For the first time, the Republic was no longer a country of tolerance. [[Voice from the hall: Nationalism in the 17th century?]] It's supposed to be some kind of future science for us. Thank you very much to Senator Czerwiński for this initiative, which I support, even though it may not have been a great victory. However, it was a very important draw, which we did not have time to use later. Positive, tactical draw, tactical victory. However, I have a request. When we discuss the Ukrainians in the future, as we have done before, I would like the spirit of Chocim to guide all, not the end of the Fire and the sword. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u184	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. [[Voice from the hall: Thank God.]] For the record, Senator Łuczak made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Are there any messages? [[Yes.]] Messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u185	Ladies and gentlemen, I present your communications. The Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs will be held in room 217 5 minutes after the end of the joint meeting of the Extraordinary Commission on Climate Affairs, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment on the examination of applications submitted at the 30th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Environmental Law and the Act on greenhouse gas emissions management and other substances. The joint meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the Committee on the Environment and the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs on the examination of the proposals submitted at the 30th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Act on Environmental Protection and the Act on greenhouse gas emission management and other substances will be held today 5 minutes after the announcement of a break in the session in room 217. A meeting of the Scientific, Education and Sports Committee to examine the proposals submitted to the Law amending the Law on Higher Education and Science will take place 5 minutes after the announcement of a break in room 176.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u186	Thank you very much. We're adjourned until 3:00. After the vote. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 16 to 15 minutes 16]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u187	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that the next Senate meeting is scheduled to take place on 24 and 25 November this year. The agenda for this meeting will be provided to you by electronic means, but I think we already have 12 legislations from the Sejm, and it will come, so that a little work will have to be done. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that the points concerning the information of the President of the Council of Ministers on the control of inflation by the government and rising prices will be discussed at one of the next Senate meetings. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. A meeting of the Health Committee took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 531 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, to submit a report to the committee. And your senators will concentrate to make it work as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u188	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on the meeting of the Health Committee held on 28 October 2021, in which the proposals submitted during the debate on 28 October 2021 on the Law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws were considered. I move that the following position be adopted: The High Senate accepts the proposals set out in points 1, 3 and 5.9. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u189	Thank you very much, Senator. Does the senator still wish to speak as an applicant? [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: Thank you.]] Thank you. We therefore proceed to the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. If you don't mind, I'll only be reading the numbers if necessary. The whole justification. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. Note: Amendment 1 will rule out voting on Amendment 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 97 for, no one against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 71]] Amendment 3. Who's in favour? I would add that the adoption of this amendment will exclude the vote on Amendment 4. Who's against it? Who's holding back? One senator from the remote voters... Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 96 for, 2 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 72]] Amendment 5. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Didn't catch it again? [[It turns off what doesn't vote... some punishment has to be.]] Ninety-eight senators voted, 53 for, 44 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 73]] Amendment 6. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 96 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 74]] Amendment 7. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, ninety-six, no one opposed, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 75]] Amendment 8. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 76]] Amendment 9. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Malecka-Libera voting? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 77]] We're coming... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm asking you to focus a little bit, because I can't hear the numbers screaming, and I can't get the corrections wrong, so... We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 78]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the law amending the law on road traffic. A meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the subject. It is in print No 535 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Halina Poora, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u190	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 29 October, the committee met to examine the proposals put forward during the debate and considered the amendments put forward in points 1 and 5. On behalf of the committee, I would like to ask you to adopt the bill together with the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u191	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would like to remind you that the conclusions were made during the discussion by the senators: Halina Bieda, Zygmunt Frankiewicz, Ryszard Świlski, Jan Hamerski. No. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Attention, amendments 1, 3, 4 and 5 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 97 were in favour, no one was against, one held back. [[Voting No 79]] Amendment 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 96 were in favour, no one opposed, one abstained. [[Voting No 80]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 81]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on road traffic. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 517 A. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 82]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the Accounting Act and some other laws. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 534 A. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 97 for, no one opposed, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 83]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Accounting Act and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the refund of excise duty contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. The meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Budget and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is available in print 512 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u192	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Today, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance have examined the proposals submitted in the course of the discussion of this law and are asking for the adoption of the Act on Amendments Nos 1 and 3 to be voted on together. This vote, if the High Senate agrees with the committee's proposal, will rule out the vote on Amendment 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u193	Thank you very much. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? Yes. I would just like to remind you that Senator Jan Maria Jackowski and Senator Jacek Bury presented their conclusions during the discussion and that Senator Chróścikowski was the rapporteur of the agricultural committee. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. This amendment is more complete because it also increases the amounts that have to be reserved for agricultural fuel. So I would like to support this amendment if the senators want to support any amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u195	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding up? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 98 senators, 42 votes against, 55 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 84]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has rejected the motion to adopt the law without amendment. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. Amendments 1 and 3 should be voted on together. The adoption of these amendments excludes the vote on Amendment 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding up? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 59 votes against, 36 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 85]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding up? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 86]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the amendment of the Act on the refund of excise duty contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. We are returning to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the law on countering unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage in the marketing of agricultural and food products. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development have presented a draft resolution in which they propose amendments to the Act; Senate print No 516 A. First, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution taken in full, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Vote on the amendments. Amendment 1. Who's... [[Mr. Marshal...]] You can all of them together, right? [[Voice from the room: Yes, in total.]] That's Amendment 1. We are voting on Amendments 1. Who's in favour? [[Cousin, a birthday present for you...]] We've made our wishes. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Disappeared, gentlemen, preview... Please state the results of the vote... Oh, sorry, the remotes are only voting now. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please state the results of the vote. 95 Senators voted, 94 in favour, no one opposed, 1 Senator abstained. [[Voting No 87]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 88]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act against unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage in trade in agricultural and food products. We are returning to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Protection of Agricultural and Forestry Lands. The meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development was adjourned, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the subject. It is available in print No 537 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Richard Bober, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u196	Mr Marshal, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development recommends that 4 amendments be adopted. They can be voted on together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u197	Thank you very much. Would Senator Bober like to take the floor as an applicant? Thank you very much. I understand that there is no objection, and we can vote on these four amendments together. We are voting on the amendments. We are voting on Amendments 1 and 4. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 97 for, no one against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 89]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 95 for, 3 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 90]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Protection of Agricultural and Forestry Lands. We are returning to the discussion of item 15 of the agenda: the law on amending the law of the Hunting Law. The Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 533 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 91]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Hunting Law. We are returning to the 16th agenda: the Act on Guaranteed Housing Credit. The meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is available in print No 515 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Richard Śvilski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u198	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance recommend that this law be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u199	Thank you very much. Would Senator Filip Libicki like to speak again? [[No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-eight senators voted, 91 for, 6 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 92]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on Guaranteed Housing Credit. We are back to discussing item 17 of the agenda: the Family Care Capital Act. A meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy took place during the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 507 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Dorota Tobiszowska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy at its meeting today considered the proposals made during the debate yesterday on the Law on Family Welfare Capital. All the proposals for amendments received a majority in the vote. On behalf of the committee, please accept these amendments. It proposes that amendments 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8 be voted together. It's a typical editorial amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u201	Thank you very much. Does Senator Magdalena Kochan still want to speak?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u202	I support the rapporteur's request for a joint vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u203	Thank you very much. If I do not hear opposition, amendments 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8 will be voted on in total. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendments tabled, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Together, we are voting on Amendments 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 95 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 93]] Attention, amendments 4 and 9 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 49 for, 46 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 94]] Attention, amendments 5 and 11 should also be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 50 for, 47 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 95]] Amendment 10. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[It's the Feast of the Dead, and they want me to have a nice weekend.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Please state the results of the vote. [[Even the marshal laughed.]] [[Voice from the hall: This is All Saints...]] Ninety-eight senators voted, 51 for, 46 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 96]] Attention, amendments 12 and 13 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-eight senators voted, 51 against, 45 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 97]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 97 for, no one opposed, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 98]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on Family Care Capital. We return to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the protection of animals used for scientific or educational purposes. The meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport took place at the end of the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is available in print No 508 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Kazimierz Wind, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u204	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development supported amendments 5, 7, 9, 10, 13, 15 and 17. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u205	Thank you very much. Do Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski or the other Senators of the rapporteur want to speak yet? The committee's rapporteurs were Senator Przemysław Błaszczyk and Senator Józef Zając.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u206	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Please support all amendments aimed at increasing the scope of animal protection.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u207	Thank you very much. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendments tabled, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-eight senators voted, 52 for, 45 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 99]] Amendment 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-eight senators voted, four votes 91 against, three senators abstained. [[Voting No 100]] Amendment 3. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 3 for, 95 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 101]] Amendment 4. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 50 for, 48 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 102]] Amendment 5. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[Cell phone signal]] The phone rang and it jammed. 99 senators voted, 98 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 103]] Amendment 6. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 50 for, 47 against, 2 senators abstained. [[Voting No 104]] Amendment 7. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 97 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 105]] Amendment 8. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 51 votes, 47 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 106]] Amendment 9. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-eight senators voted, 96 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 107]] Attention, amendments 10 and 15 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 96 for, 2 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 108]] Amendment 11. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 51 votes, 47 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 109]] Attention, amendments 12 and 21 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 49 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 110]] Amendment 13. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 98 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 111]] Amendment 14. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 50 for, 49 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 112]] Amendment 15 has already been put to the vote. Now Amendment 16. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 6 for, 93 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 113]] Amendment 17. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 97 for, 2 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 114]] Amendment 18. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 50 for, 49 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 115]] Amendment 19. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 50 for, 49 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 116]] Amendment 20. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 51 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 117]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the bill in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 118]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the protection of animals used for scientific or educational purposes. We return to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Higher Education and Science and the Law on Specific Support Instruments in connection with the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. The Scientific, Education and Sports Committee presented a draft resolution in which it requested the rejection of the Senate Act No 509 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. The Commission requests that the law be rejected. Who's in favor of a motion for rejection? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 49 for, 50 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 119]] We proceed with the procedure set out in Article. 54 (1) (a) 1a Senate Rules of Procedure. In the face of the rejection of the requests contained in the printing, we proceed to the vote on the motion to reject the bill. In case of Okay, I'll read it. We will proceed with the vote on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments. [[Voice in the room: So once again on the motion to reject...]] Why do we have to vote on rejection again? [[Voice from the room: Because we rejected all the conclusions...]] But there were no conclusions, there was a motion for rejection. [[Voice from the room: There was a motion for rejection and it was just this motion that...]] [[The Chief Legislator at the Legislative Office at the Senate Office Jakub Zabielski: The motion for rejection was a request in the report...)]] So we're gonna have to vote this one more time. Yes? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] After the legislator's instructions, I would like to inform you that we must vote again on the motion to reject the law. Only later will we vote on if the bill is not rejected. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm reading what's in the article. 54. In the face of the rejection of all requests... our request was a motion for rejection, so you explain to me the legislator. We must vote again on the motion to reject the bill. [[Voice from the room: Fully.]] Who's in favor of a motion to reject the bill? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 99 senators voted, 50 for, 49 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 120]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution amending the Law on Higher Education and Science and the Law on Specific Instruments in connection with the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus. [[Voice from the room: Resumption. It was a resummation.]] No, Senator, it was an art act. 54 Rules of Procedure. [[Voice from the room: The Marshal repeated...]] [[Every vote...]] That's what the rules say. Report a request to change it. [[Voice from the room: He doesn't know what he's talking about.]] We are back to discussing item 20 of the agenda... [[Talking in the O.R.]] It is rare that there is one conclusion, Minister. There was just one motion here. [[Voice from the room: Twice on the same motion...]] No, no. First on the motion and then on the bill. [[The rules rule, not logic.)]] [[I'll explain it to Senator Skurkiewicz later.]] But maybe... [[I'd love a few things for Mr. Borowski...]] We return to the examination of the item on the 20th agenda: the Law amending the Law on Higher Education and Science and some other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the subject. It is available in print No 530 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Wojciech Necessary, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u208	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! During the session, a meeting of the Scientific, Education and Sports Committee was held during which... Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport took place at the end of the session, during which the group amendments adopted at the previous meeting of the committee were first voted. The grouped amendments which were tabled during the Senate's deliberations were then voted on by the legislative amendments proposed by the legislator, with the support of the Ministry and the support of the committee, mostly ordering, clarifying provisions, possibly changing the name of certain provisions. and several substantive votes were held. The most important vote was the vote on Amendment 1, which extends the possibility of creating medical faculties in universities. This was an amendment tabled by Senator Martynowski and implementing Senator Bober's amendment. To sum up, the Committee on Science, Education and Sports presents the following position to the Senate: The High Senate is ready to accept amendments 1, 3 and 22, 25 and 32. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u209	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would like to remind you that during the discussion, the senators Marek Martynowski, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Joanna Sekuła, Robert Dowhan, Wojciech Konieczny, Kazimierz Wiatr and Ryszard Bober submitted their conclusions. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr. Marshal, would the clubs agree to vote equally with the exception of amendments two, twenty-three and twenty-four?]] [[Voice from the room: Why?]] I take it there's no agreement at the club about that. However, I have been informed here that the clubs have agreed that the amendments from four to twenty-two and from twenty-six to thirty-two... It was agreed to vote them together. If this is part of Senator Włosowicz's request, and it is already agreed, that is part of what we will do. Half success. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Thank you very much. Attention, amendments 1 and 25 should be voted on together. The adoption of these amendments will rule out voting on Amendments 2, 23, 24 and 33. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Is Senator Klein voting or not? [[Voice from the room: Remotely...]] [[Voice from the O.R.: He's on his way home.]] [[Voice from the room: He's gone. His train's gone.]] Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 53 votes against, 44 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 121]] And now on... [[Voice from O.R.: 3rd.]] Third, yes. Take it easy. These corrections don't... Amendment 3. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 51 votes against, 45 against and 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 122]] And now we are voting on amendments 4 to 22. Who's in favour? It doesn't shine, it doesn't work... Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 123]] We are now voting on amendments from 26... Oh, that's already been done, yes. So, no more amendments... Thank you for giving the legislator a hint. As the table shows that we are also voting on Amendments 26 and 32 but I have not read this formula, Amendment 26 and 32 are voting again. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 124]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 58 votes, no one opposed, 40 senators abstained. [[Voting No 125]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Higher Education and Science and some other laws. We return to the examination of item twenty of the first agenda: the Law amending certain laws in order to improve the consistency of the terminology of the legal system. The Legislative Commission has presented a draft resolution in which it asks for an amendment to the Act; Senate printing No 514 A. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendment submitted and then a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendment adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendment tabled by the Legislative Commission. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 49 for, 49 against, 1 Senator abstained. [[Voting No 126]] The amendment didn't get the majority. [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr. Marshal, we must take advantage of the benefits... of rejection, of course, and then...]] And now I'm reading the second article. 54 (1a): If all proposals or amendments submitted to the Act are rejected or the resolution on the Act is not adopted in its entirety, the Marshal shall put to the vote a motion for rejection of the Act and, in the event of failure to accept this proposal, a proposal for the Act without amendments. I quote in extenso. [[Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind, I have a question.]] I will exceptionally allow the Minister to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u210	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question. When you led the High House of Marshal Borusewicz... I'm sorry, I wasn't here in the Senate for four years. I have a question: what happened over the last four years? When Marshal Borusewicz led the House, it was so that when none of the applications received the majority of them, there were situations like this at the moment. At the time, there was a request from the Chamber to adopt a law without amendments. Mr. Marshal, you will admit, when you led the House, such situations have often happened. Today...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u211	Minister, I am simply replying to you: we do not have the Seym Resumption custom here until the end. The rules have been changed in the meantime and I can read the word in a word again, as it sounds... [[It's okay. If someone's a minister, they understand.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u212	Thank you for explaining that the Rules of Procedure have been amended. I think we should return to the old regulations which were, because they, in my opinion, were very good, regulations which Mr. Marshal Borusewicz applied very well... [[Voice from the Chamber: Report this to the Rules of Procedure Committee.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u213	Yes, there is a Rules of Procedure Committee which accepts requests for amendment of the Rules of Procedure. We vote, ladies and gentlemen. Please. In view of the rejection of these proposals, we are voting on the motion to reject the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 44 for, 49 against, 6 abstentions. [[Voting No 127]] In view of the results of the vote... [[Mr. Marshal, there aren't 99 people in the courtroom, some were just sitting there, but they left.]] But they took laptops, tablets. Mr. Senator, this vote is won by your senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'd like your attention, please. In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we proceed to vote on the motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 49 for, 40 against, 9 abstained. [[Voting No 128]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending certain laws in order to improve the consistency of the terminology of the legal system. To clarify, the Senate accepted it without amendment. We return to the examination of item twenty-second of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Military Property Agency. I would like to remind you that the following conclusions were presented during the meeting of the Committee on National Defence: the rejection of the law and the adoption of the law without amendment. They are included in print No 536 A. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski and Senator Robert Mamytkow submitted their applications. I don't see any calls. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. We are voting on Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski's motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 98 senators, 48 for, 49 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 129]] In the face of the rejection of the motion to reject the bill, we proceed with the vote on Senator Robert Mamytkow's motion to adopt the bill without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 50 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 130]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Military Property Agency. We are returning to the examination of item twenty-third of the agenda: the Act amending the Environmental Law and the Act on the greenhouse gas emission management system and other substances. The meeting of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment took place at the end of the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is in print No 510 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u214	Mr. Marshal! The Committee on the Environment and the Extraordinary Commission on Climate at its joint meeting today considered two legislative amendments. Both amendments were accepted by majority. And both committees recommend the adoption of a resolution on the Act amending the Environmental Law and the Act on the greenhouse gas emission management system and other substances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u215	Thank you very much. Does the other Senator rapporteur, Senator Rafał Sillysmith, want to speak yet? Senator Rafał Silesian, I would add, was the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on the proposal of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment to adopt the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 47 for, 49 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 131]] In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 48 against, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 132]] The amendment didn't get the majority. Amendment 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 47 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 133]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Since all the amendments have been rejected, we are voting again on the motion to reject the bill. I repeat: rejecting the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] 95 senators voted, 8 votes against, 49 against, 38 abstentions. [[Voting No 134]] In view of the results of the vote and the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we proceed to the vote on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. [[Voice from the room: Against.]] [[Voice from the room: Za, za, za.]] Who's in favour? Who's against it? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Who's against it? [[I watch the marshal vote.]] Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Poor is voting? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 53 votes against, 34 against, 9 abstentions. [[Voting No 135]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Environmental Law and the Act on the greenhouse gas emission management system and other substances. We return to the examination of item twenty-four of the agenda: the Law amending the Waste Act and some other laws. The Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs and the Environment Committee have presented one-sounding draft resolutions in which they request an amendment to the Senate Print Act 532 A and 532 B. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendment submitted and then a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendment adopted. We are voting on the amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 95 for, 0 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 136]] We proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety with the amendment resulting from the amendment adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 137]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Waste Act and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 25 of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Belarus on social security, signed in Warsaw on 13 February 2019. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate prints Nos 527 A and 527 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 Senators voted, 95 in favour, no one against, one Senator abstained. [[Voting No 138]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Belarus on social security, signed in Warsaw on 13 February 2019. We return to the examination of item twenty-six of the agenda: the Act on the ratification of the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Malta on the amendment of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Malta on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes, drawn up at La Valetta on 7 January 1994, as amended by the Protocol signed in Warsaw on 6 April 2011. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union have presented one-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate prints Nos 528 A and 528 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 139]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the ratification of the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Malta on the amendment of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Malta on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes, drawn up at La Valetta on 7 January 1994, as amended by the Protocol signed in Warsaw on 6 April 2011. We return to the examination of item twenty-seven of the agenda: the Act on the ratification of the Protocol between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the amendment of the Convention between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes signed in Warsaw on 13 February 2002 and the Protocol signed in Warsaw on 13 February 2002. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union have presented one-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate prints Nos 529 A and 529 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 140]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the ratification of the Protocol between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the amendment of the Convention between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes signed in Warsaw on 13 February 2002 and the Protocol signed in Warsaw on 13 February 2002. We are returning to the examination of item twenty-eighth of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the law on health care, health resorts and areas of health care and spa communities. I would like to remind you that a report has been presented to the committee on the draft law and that a discussion has been held. We proceed with the third reading, which will only cover the vote. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a uniform bill, contained in print No 522 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Janusz Gromek to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill submitted by the committees and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 94 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 141]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Act on health care, health resorts and areas of health care and spa communities and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Janusz Gromek to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We return to the discussion of item twenty-nine of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 400th anniversary of the Battle of Chocim. I would like to remind you that a draft resolution was presented before the session was adjourned and that a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading, which only includes the vote. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution contained in print no. 491 S on the 400th anniversary of the Battle of Chocim. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 88 senators voted in favour, 87 in favour, no one opposed, one abstained. [[Voting No 142]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate passed a resolution on the 400th anniversary of the Battle of Chocim. I would like to inform you that the agenda of the thirty-second Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u216	We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Please draw up a list of those who would like to make statements. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate and may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. I'd like to make a statement to Senator Alicia Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u217	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was approached by physiotherapists indicating a reduction in the valuation of benefits as of 1 January 2020. There has been a significant reduction in the valuation of these benefits. So I want to make a statement to the Minister of Health, and perhaps also to the Minister of Sport, because some of the physical therapy facilities are under the aegis of the University of Physical Education. Ladies and gentlemen, physical therapy is the main method of treating patients in an acute stage of pain, in various diseases, but it is also complementary to kinesitherapy, individual work with the patient, which is an integral part of prevention of movement. These treatments have a beneficial effect on blood circulation, accelerate the process of recovery of people after injuries, accelerate the production of collagen, reduce swelling, relax the active system of motion, are the main method of treating patients in the acute stage of pain, often the only help for geriatric patients, but also for children, e.g. from brain tumors. Electrotherapy beneficially stimulates pain, stimulates and nourishes tissues, improves nervous conduction in patients with ischaemic strokes. Stimulating the nervous system, it accelerates regeneration and nerve conduction. Physicotherapeutic procedures often constitute the first aid for people with motor organ dysfunction, are the only possible therapy at a given stage of improvement of patients. Often they also support the work of a physiotherapist, affecting the reduction of tension and swelling, without inducing fear of therapy. Rehabilitation must, of course, be complex, should include physical therapy, massage and kinesitherapy. This area has been forgotten. Studies on its beneficial effects on the body are not updated. In everyday work physiotherapists are key elements that allow easier work with the patient. They are sometimes used as the only therapy in patients with osteoporosis or other conditions in which the patient is accompanied by anxiety and not only pain. They eliminate acute inflammation, improve tissue trophy and metabolism. They stimulate the condition of muscle fibers, which helps to reduce pain during individual work with the patient during exercise. Thanks to the use of physical procedures, the movement system is less burdened. And better nourished. These treatments are an integral part of the whole process of recovery to the fitness of a patient with locomotor disorders. This is also important in the age of COVID and rehabilitation of people with complications after COVID. Analyzing the situation of patients during rehabilitation, we can conclude that these treatments play a particular role. After the use of physical therapy, the patient recovers faster and less painfully. I got this information that the changes in valuation are primarily about outpatient physiotherapy. Gentlemen who asked for this support sent me a table in which there are many subtypes of physiotherapy, including a score that has been reduced. As an example, they refer to TENS currents which earlier this year, i.e. 2021, were valued at 4 points and will be valued at 2 points from January 2022. It is similar for other treatments in the field of physical therapy. The point costs 1 zloty, it's not big money. For a 15-minute treatment using TENS currents, the NFZ will pay 2 PLN. In addition to the costs of purchasing equipment, it is necessary to take into account reviews and repairs and staff work. The salaries continue to rise, electricity prices have also increased dramatically, as have other costs. All of this makes these still undervalued procedures completely uneconomic or will have to be added to them. The effect of these changes will be a drastic reduction in physical therapy by physiotherapy facilities and the closure of physiotherapy facilities, which will not be able to continue from 1 January. I'm not gonna tell you how important this is anymore. I would like to say that we have also been asked to hold a team meeting. This will be the meeting of the 2 teams in December, the Parliamentary Group on The children and the Senacki Team of Poles, which is headed by Senator Małecka-Libera, and I have the honour of running that team. We're gonna talk about physiotherapy for children and adults. I appeal to the Minister for immediate impact on the National Health Fund and for the change of this unfavourable decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u218	Thank you, Senator. Please make a statement to Senator Beata Małecka-Libera.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u219	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address the Minister of Health with my statement, or, in fact, with an appeal for him to come forward and start managing everything that is going wrong in health care right now. We have not only protested all medical personnel on the street for more than a month, we also have an increasing fourth wave of epidemics and we also have a humanitarian crisis at the border. And nowhere, in any of these three areas, I see the strong activity of the Minister of Health. There are no talks with health professionals who fight not only about their pay issues, as is said in the media, but above all about changing the system. After the epidemic the system simply collapsed, dramatically lacks staff and unfortunately all this causes that medical workers are unable to secure, give health safety to their patients. These are connected vessels. That is why I believe that the Minister should solve this problem as soon as possible, and this is extending, and I really feel that the Ministry of Health is not interested in solving this problem quickly. The second thing, as I said, is a wave of epidemics, increasing. Every day on the screens of our TVs we see numbers, we see the number of infections rising, the number of deaths rising. But, ladies and gentlemen, these are not numbers, these are specific people, these are specific deaths. Every day these numbers are transmitted to the public in a heartless tone. Some of these people could be rescued if they were vaccinated. These are all mistakes and omissions that have been caused by the mismanagement of the epidemic. Therefore, please, I call on the Minister to start making specific decisions and to manage this epidemic as it should be, as every minister should, and not to analyse the social moods, as I have recently heard from the Minister. It seems to me that other people are called for social analysis, not the Minister of Health. And lately, well, I was very surprised that the Minister of Health is promoting and praising such a survey of satisfaction that is addressed to patients. I understand that patient satisfaction surveys, which talk about the quality of healthcare, are of course very important. Only in order to ask the patient about the quality, this quality must first be built, Minister. I therefore have such further questions for the Minister as well. Does the Minister know how many hours a month an employee works on average in health care and in how many places? Is it because of this work overload and the constant stress that health professionals are working at the moment, or is their mental health not at risk and are they sure that they are able to secure their patients? Are they properly treated by employers and decision-makers and is there communication, correct communication, about which you ask in your patient survey? Does the evaluation of the health care provision allow you to develop a proper diet for patients, supported by dietetic advice? Do health workers have a sense of understanding with their health minister, who should support them? Can quality in patient care be ensured without adequate human resources? Can quality be ensured without additional funding in such a highly underfunded system? Minister, this is an appeal. I hope the Minister didn't abdicate. And he's gonna act and make specific decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-29-senat-32-3.u220	Thank you, Senator. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 30th second Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office in room 255. The second session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[Meeting adjourned at 16 minutes 50]]
