ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u1	Please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen! I open the twenty-second sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Alexander Swed, Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Senator Mariusz Gromka and Senator Jerzy Wcisła to be the secretary of the sitting. Please note that there are four secretaries. This is the implementation of the suggestions of the Convention and the Bureau, so that the secretaries, who have always been in the same room, and because of the lockdown for a time after one, may have a replacement for obvious reasons so that they do not have to sit here all the time while others change. The list of speakers in the sitting room will be led by Senator Alexander Swed and Senator Mariusz Gromko in room 217. I believe the Senators have already taken their seats. Dear Senators, in connection with the outbreak, after consulting the Senior Convention, I have decided to give this meeting a special formula. The meetings will be held at the same time in a traditional manner and using means of distance communication, in a remote manner. The rules for the participation of senators in Senate meetings in a remote manner are laid down in Article. 67b Senate Rules of Procedure. Senators gathered in the sitting room and in room 217, please join the questions and speak in the discussion with the Senators of the Secretaries. I would like to remind you that in the sitting room you will be Senator Alexander Swed and Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, and in room 217 Senator Mariusz Gromko and Senator Jerzy Wcisła. Senators of the Secretaries, please pass on proposals of a legislative nature, speeches in discussions and statements. I'm also asking you not to move between the salami. It is possible to take the floor and take part in the votes from the places that you occupy. Please do not run applications in the iPad within the Senate building. I understand that all countries in the sitting room and in room 217 have excluded applications for remote participation in the meeting. Your Senators taking part in the meeting remotely please make sure that your iPads are connected to the power supply and the cameras are turned on. Please also ensure that the iPad position and camera lens are visible during the connection. You can subscribe to questions and speak in the discussion via chat in the application. Legislative requests, speeches and statements should be sent by e-mail to the address previously sent to you by the Senate Office. There is also a special telephone number at your disposal. Under this number you can consult the content of proposals of a legislative nature or the notification of technical problems. Please do not turn on the microphones yourself. It will be possible to speak only after it has been given by the Marshal and after the microphone has been launched by the Senate's IT clerk. I also inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If one of your senators fails to join the session before blocking the session in the application or if one of you loses the call, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Dear Senators, we will now proceed to the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators currently attending the sitting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. I remind the senators who use the application to participate remotely in the sitting that they start voting, so-called. polling, Webex will cause a message to appear. To take part in the vote, click "OK." I would also like to remind you of the need to press 2 buttons after the vote: in the voting window and in response to the confirmation question. Please report the results. 96 senators voted and so many are currently taking part in the meeting. [[Voting No 1]] Ladies and gentlemen, on the night of 22 to 23 February, Mr.Jerzy Dietl, Senator of the first term of office, Vice-President of the Committee on National Economy and member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs died. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of the late Senator. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord.]] [[Voices from the hall: And let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[Voices from the room: Amen.]] I inform you that the Sejm, at its twenty-sixth meeting on 24 and 25 February 2021, adopted the Senate's amendment to the Law amending the Law on Road Traffic, rejected the amendments of the Senate to the Act on the next in 2021 additional annual financial provision to pensioners, rejected the Senate's amendment to the Act amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws, rejected the Senate's resolution rejecting the Foreign Service Act. In the absence of objections to the minutes of the 19th and 20th meetings, I state that the minutes of these meetings have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 21st Senate meeting in accordance with the Senate Rules of Procedure are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no objection is raised by any of you, it will be adopted at the next meeting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose to launch items 6 and 13 of the agenda, although the committee's reports on them were submitted at a later date than set out in the Rule. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I propose a change in the order of consideration of the third paragraph: the Act amending the Customs Law and certain other laws and consider it as point one. This is the implementation of requests from ministries and committees. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: Act amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of Infections and Diseases in Human Beings and consider it as item 14 of the agenda. This is precisely the case for other medical professions, the qualification for vaccination and the extension of the deadline for settlement of hospitals. This is a request from Minister Niedzielski. In addition, I propose a supplement to the points: second reading of the draft law on amending the Law on the Management of Agricultural Real Estate of the State Treasury and consider it as item 16 of the agenda; second reading of the draft law amending the Environmental Law and certain other laws and consider it as item 17 of the agenda; changes in the membership of the Senate committees and consider it as the item on the last agenda. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I believe that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? Senator Alexander Swed and Senator Boris-Damian. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr Marshal, I would like to object to the point: the information of the President of the Council of Ministers on the state of preparation for the mobilisation of funds from the European Union Reconstruction Fund, i.e. Next Generation EU. Well, first of all, two arguments. Again, with regard to the information presented, we are entering into the powers of the Sejm, which has been raised several times in the High House. The first 60th meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, where representatives of the government, Secretary of State in the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Małgorzata Jarosińska-Jedynak, Director of the Strategy Department in the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Renata Calak and Deputy Director of the Economic Department of the European Union, Marcin Lichonowski, President of the Council of Ministers, answered the senators' questions. As far as preparations are concerned, we still have a lot of time here, because by the end of April there are deadlines for implementing the National Plan for Reconstruction and transferring it to the European Commission. So that I object to this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u3	Thank you very much, senator. For the sake of clarification, before we call for a vote and hear from Senator Boris-Damięcka, I would add that our request for the presence of Prime Minister Morawiecki has generally met with a good reception. Although the Prime Minister will not be able to represent the government personally, he has sent Minister Buda to do so. At least that's the information we have right now. Well, it doesn't change the essence of the fact that we're going to put your senator's formal motion to the vote. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u4	Mr. Marshal, thank you so much for your voice. This is true, rather than the order of the agenda, but thank you for giving me the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, senators. March 27th is the International Day of the Theatre, for the 60th time. I ask all of you to remember this day in your senatorial areas, in your electoral districts where you have theatres, and be kind to wish your theatres the best. Since these cultural institutions are most affected by the pandemic, lockdown, they face many difficulties and a bit of kindness and congratulations, incentives for further survival and action will certainly be soothing. I would like to point out that the International Day of the Theatre was established exactly 60 years ago, so on March 27th, the 60th anniversary of the International Day of the Theatre is marked. Please bear in mind this day very warmly. Thank you, Mr. Marshal, for giving the floor. That's all.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. I take this as a free proposal not concerning the agenda, but very valuable, because theatres and artists belong to social groups particularly affected by covid sharpening. There is one formal request for the withdrawal of the point: information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the state of preparation for the mobilisation of funds from the European Union's Next Generation EU. I'm ordering a vote on Senator Swede's motion. Who is in favour of the point "Information by the President of the Council of Ministers on the state of preparation for the mobilisation of funds from the European Union's Next Generation EU (Next Generation EU) off the agenda? Press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 45 for, 50 against, two abstentions. [[Voting No 2]] The point therefore remains in the programme. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the twenty-second Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term. Dear Senators, I inform you that today at 4:30 p.m., at the request of the Law and Justice Club, an hour's rest will be announced by 5:30 p.m. I would like to inform you that on the second day of the meeting we will begin with the examination of point eight: the law on the amendment of the Rail Transport Act. I would also like to inform you that in the case of the preparation by the committees of reports on the draft law amending the Act on Employee Capital Plans, the draft resolution on the 40th anniversary of March events in Bydgoszcz, the agenda may be supplemented by the consideration of these points. In addition, where committees prepare a report on the Act amending the Energy Efficiency Act and certain other acts, the agenda may be supplemented by this item. The climate ministry's request for this case was just a few minutes ago. We'll see if the committees can deal with this. To the point concerning the draft resolution on the 40th anniversary of March events in Bydgoszcz we will join tomorrow, i.e. March 25th, 12:30. We will be honoured by a long-standing senator, parliamentarian, participant in those events, Senator Jan Rulewski. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] If legislative proposals are not tabled, the vote will take place immediately after consideration of this point. The remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I would like your attention just a moment before you begin your examination of the points. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy received the approval of the Senate Bureau for the announcement of the sixth edition of the competition, the Letter to Dad, whose spiritus moves or spiritual father, so to speak, are Senator Libicki. I encourage all the senators whose family and paternity matters are at their heart to join in this competition in their electoral districts. You will find the invitation and information about the competition on the desktops together with the publication containing the works awarded in the second and third edition of the competition. Yeah, let me remind you, it's six o'clock. I would also like to inform you that a small exhibition related to the March Constitution is presented on the first floor on 15 and 26 March. That's all the occasional messages. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Customs Law and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 334 and the report of the Commission In print No 334 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Finance, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, I have the honour to present a report on the work of our committee on the Law amending the Customs Law and certain other laws. Our committee examined this law at its meeting on 10 March 2021. This law was adopted by the Polish Parliament on 25 February. During the committee meeting, we discussed the contents of this law very honestly and carefully... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Please pay attention to the report.]] Many comments have been made in our report as amendments to this law. Our Committee on Budget and Public Finance recommends that the High House adopt the 9 amendments adopted by the Committee in print No 334 A. All amendments accepted by the committee were supported by a representative of the government. This law amends the Customs Act, the Law on Enforcement in Administration, the Law on toll motorways and the National Road Fund, the Law on the Rules of Registration and Identification of Taxpayers and Taxpayers, the Tax Order, the Law on Environmental Protection, the Act on Goods and Services, the Law on the Railway Fund, the Act on Excise Tax, the Act on Gambling, the Act on National Tax Administration, the Act on the Development Fund for Bus Transport of Public Interest and the Act on Electronic Service. As you can see, this bill, which is not volumetricly huge, is updating a lot of laws. It must be said here that most of the provisions of this law simplify administrative procedures, tax procedures, customs procedures. I think that this is a law that will, to a large extent, and perhaps even fully benefit taxpayers. The primary objective of the amendment is to harmonise the procedure for the customs and treasury office's decision on the level of customs and tax duties and fuel levy and import levy. In the current legal situation in the case of imports of goods subject to customs and tax duties, the procedure for determining customs duties and tax duties Even though they refer to the same facts, They are run separately. Since, in most cases, tax decisions are issued after a customs decision has been taken, it is not possible to conduct tax and customs proceedings in parallel. This has a negative impact on the speed, efficiency and economics of the procedure. As separate proceedings are carried out in respect of the same facts, this results in duplication of procedural proceedings and the need to issue several dimensional decisions on a single customs declaration. It also leads to the fact that the entire procedure is, of course, prolonged, unnecessarily extended. The bill in the submission, which you will be adopting in a moment, eliminates customs-tax duality and harmonises the procedure relating to import duties, introducing solutions for one procedure and issuing one decision on import-related matters. The consequences of harmonising customs and tax procedures are changes in the relevant laws, which I will not mention here. In addition, the legislator simplifies the process of applying for inclusion in the list of guarantors entitled to provide guarantees lodged as a security to cover amounts arising from customs debts and to include customs agents in the list. It also changes the body holding the list of guarantors: it will be the head of the National Tax Administration instead of the Minister responsible for public finances. The Act also clarifies the provisions on customs proceedings, in particular by extending the scope of the Law of 29 August 1997 to these matters. This is an extension, among others. for the correction of accounting errors and other obvious errors in appeals, for the provision of non-compliant information and for the remission of proceedings. The Act also harmonises the type of customs-treasure checks to be carried out in respect of compliance with customs and tax law in relation to the carriage of goods in circulation between the customs territory of the European Union and third countries. The amendment of the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund is also intended to ensure full consistency of the provisions governing the fuel levy with the provisions of the Act on excise duty, which implemented the provisions of the Council Directive of 16 December 2008 on general rules on excise duties in the Polish legal order. This directive has repealed earlier directives governing this scope of cases and, therefore, this implementation, following the entry into force of that law, of that directive, is valid and justified. The amendments were also made in the Enforcement Act in the administration and are intended to enable the enforcement of the issue fee in the administrative execution procedure. The amendment of the Act on the rules of registration and identification of taxable persons and payers will enable the issuing of a PESEL number for tax purposes to a natural person who is not engaged in a business activity or who is not a registered taxable person with a tax on goods and services which does not have a registration on the territory of the Republic of Poland. This provision is extremely important, important for people or foreign workers working in Poland. There is a change in the law on gambling. The amendments to this law aim to deformise, simplify and shorten the procedure for dealing with gambling cases. The novel also aims to limit access to information about illegal casinos and gambling in search engines and to prevent circumvention of rules on illegal gambling advertising. This is to be done by optimising the procedure for entering domains in the register for offering gambling not in accordance with the Gambling Act, as well as the procedures for punishing telecommunications traders and payment service providers that do not comply with the provisions of this Act. The proceedings in these cases will be transferred from the central level to the national tax administration. On this occasion, during the discussion on the amendment of the Gambling Act, there were doubts as to the fact that some of the provisions proposed by the Government and adopted by the Sejm change such very strict and restrictive provisions adopted in the amendment of the Gambling Act in the year of probably 2017 in the 17th or 18th, in the 17th. One, among others. they assumed that in the place where the illegal gambling salons were run, for several years, or more specifically for 5 years, it was not possible to run legal gambling points. It was to discourage, so to speak, all those who ran such an illegal salon of the game and also to include a certain responsibility for the legality of the property owners' undertaking, who should be responsible to some extent for the problem of who and for what purposes rents the room from them. We were wondering in the Senate, in committee, if, however, we should introduce even a short withdrawal period. I suggested that this be an annual penalty, calculated from the time it was determined that an illegal gambling salon was run in a given premises, so that for a year in the same place it would not be possible to run a gaming salon. However, in the end, I have not tabled this amendment. We have asked the Minister to address these doubts in her report or in her information. Well, the aim of the Gambling Act of 2009, however, was to prevent such illegal trading, such illegal activities as was often carried out in gambling salons. Such doubts have arisen. They also concerned This was raised during the discussion at the committee meeting of the time of storage of this material, which the owner of the arcade is obliged to record. The material relating to this activity must be stored for a reasonable period of time, and the Act shortens the period of storage of these materials. And that would be the most important changes that have been made to this law, which we discussed at the committee meeting. We have made some amendments and we propose to the High House that they be adopted. Finally, I would like to say that, as a rule, the Act will enter into force on the first day of the month following the end of the month following the date of publication. Some provisions will come into force even later. The Commission is pleasantly surprised here, pleased, because it is not often that such laws are so long, normal vacathio legis. But that's a good sign of how we're going to proceed over this bill. I therefore thank and recommend that the bill be adopted together with the amendments adopted by the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator rapporteur. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[No questions.]] I don't see any calls. The bill was filed by the government. At this point I would like to welcome a guest from the Ministry of Finance, the Secretary of State, Minister Magdalena Rzeczkowska, who has been authorized to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Would the Minister like to speak? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u8	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, senators! I would like to thank the senators very warmly for their very constructive work on the committee and for their good acceptance of these proposals presented by the government. As the senator said in the report of the committee's meeting, they are, in fact, aimed primarily at simplifying the current procedures for conducting customs procedures and tax proceedings in the case of imports of goods, but also at harmonising the fuel levy rules. Other solutions are also beneficial for entrepreneurs. Indeed, an element of this change is also the amendment of the law on gambling. As requested by the senator, I would like to address the issue of shortening this five-year period of banning the placement of gaming salons in places after the illegal gaming salons found. I would also like to reassure your senators. When we introduced this 5-year withdrawal provision on the placement of legitimate slot arcade games in premises that were rented for illegal activities, our aim was to prevent players from associating legal salons with illegal ones. That was the intention of the legislator at the time. After a few years of functioning of this provision, adopted, as mentioned by the senator, in 2017, the analysis of existing solutions led us to the conclusion that, in fact, the further reduction of the grey area in the field of gambling on slots, including above all providing players with protection against the negative effects of gambling, it is necessary to abolish this ban. We'll never really lead to... Probably we'll never have to deal with such a situation that players will stop using slots, stop playing. Thus, in order to protect them and protect society, it is necessary to direct this activity to legal gaming salons, i.e. to places where the player is protected, where it is monitored to play games where it is possible for the player to assert his rights in relation to objections, complaints or claims to court, and above all the protection of minors is ensured. So that from the point of view of limiting the gray zone, as well as ensuring the protection of these players, it is much more advantageous to run legal salons. This restriction should therefore be abolished. Plus, this withdrawal period, which is, I'd say, it's time to encrypt yourself that there was an illegal salon before, now we have a legal... Well, sometimes it's hard for a player to tell what kind of living room he's dealing with, and all the more difficult is a landlord who sometimes just doesn't know, unconsciously decides to rent his place. So that in relation to these tenants it will be a kind of protection of their rights. Time at which the illegal salon will be liquidated as a result of the activities of the National Tax Administration This procedure lasts for a limited period of time. The tenant will take the appropriate decision and procedures will be carried out to allow the opening of a legal salon, i.e. checking operations, official activities in relation to this already legal salon, i.e. a period of at least several months. So that it is not that one day at a time there is a change of activity in a given place. The second questionable element of this law is the shortening of the period of storage of audio-visual material from gaming salons on slots from 3 years to 12 months. I would like to calm down and say that, in the case of arcades for games on slots, basic evidence and in the context of tax, and in the context of the regularity of fulfilling the obligations and ensuring the security of these games on slots, there is a record from a particular game device, such a technical record recording a particular game. An audio-visual record is a record from the room in which these games are conducted, and it is an additional material, you can say, evidence. Consideration of the customer's opposition in the case of games on slots is the term approx. 3 months. So this period of 12 months is definitely sufficient here. This is simply the abolition of such an additional bureaucratic obligation, and this applies only to arcades on slot machines. This does not apply to casinos. There the situation looks different, due to the many types of games run at the casino it is the audio-visual material that is the basic control evidence. Nothing changes here, this duty, so to speak, takes much longer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u9	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[I'd like to.]] Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u10	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question. In what situations does the head of the National Tax Administration decide to remove the guarantor from the list? According to this amendment, can this decision be appealed against, and if so, how?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u11	The request for inclusion in the list of guarantors shall be addressed to the Head of the KAS and shall be consulted with the Financial Supervision Commission. I don't think it's happened yet that there's been a refusal to include this list in recent years. If these conditions are not met, such refusal shall take the form of a decision. So that this refusal is not, she would say, the action itself, but it is the decision. This decision may be appealed against in the normal course of the procedure, in accordance with customs legislation. This is considered in administrative mode by the head of the KAS.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u12	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u13	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The very fact that you propose various shortening of the storage of the signal, other in the casino games, and others in the arcade games. I don't think that explains it at all. Because here and here, and here you can lose money. But if this is combined with the deletion of a rule that so far sounds like this: So you're looking at a place like this, and if it's been for five years, Let's call it It's clean, there's no violation, so you can put the vending machines there. And if this recipe falls out right now, you're not gonna do it at all, you're not gonna do it. and after liquidation I don't know what it's called professionally. The next day you will be able to insert the next slot machines. Yes or no? And why are you doing this? Well, I understand that this recipe didn't just have an educational advantage. That's how I'd put it. But above all, sanctioning, i.e. it was not supposed to pay off the setting up of non-registered automatons, i.e. non-legal action. Let's call it that. And right now, there's not gonna be any sanctions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u14	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u15	Thank you very much, Senator, for that question. I'm explaining. Right now, this five-year ban only applies to legal... In general, this provision concerns legal activities. In relation to illegal... You can't drive illegal at all. There is no recipe that says: you can run illegal arcade games on slots. You can't, it's forbidden. The rule that is now in force says this: if, as the National Tax Administration, we find that illegal activities were carried out at a given point, i.e. there were unregistered slots, then it is not possible to open legal ones in such a place for 5 years. ..run by a company which carries out a monopoly of a State which has all the permissions to do so. It's a game slot machine. But this recipe doesn't say that you can't open illegal activities there for five years. Because by definition, illegal activities must not be opened up there. And we don't record all those places and all the places that are rented for different purposes, because there's no way. This provision starts to work when the National Tax Administration states: there is illegal activity, and we eliminate this illegal activity. And right now, this recipe says, for five years, you can't open legal activity there. And this is unfavorable from the point of view of market ordering and protecting players, because it is better in such a place to allow the opening up of legal activity as soon as possible and as if to take away the possibility or the desire of illegal entities to once again, once again, try to locate themselves in such places again. So this is a different kind of philosophy. I would also like to say that the additional provisions accompanying this, sanctions, i.e. penalties, which concern the placement of illegal slots, have led to such a situation that, fortunately, in the case of legal activities, i.e. e.g. gastronomy, small premises or gas stations, these machines have already disappeared from there. So it's like we're in a situation like this that, on the occasion of legal activity, because of other laws, there's no desire to put these illegal machines in, put them in, or do that. But of course, they appear and function so strictly. illegal slots points, which we are gradually trying to combat, whether by eliminating or operating. The point is that in those places where such illegal activities have been carried out, it should not lead to the situation of this withdrawal for 5 years, because by that time a legitimate monopoly cannot enter and occupy the premises and thus make this place one of the places of the games that are supervised by the State, by the law, by the appropriate instruments.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u16	Thank you very much, Minister. [[If you don't mind my asking, Mr. Marshal...]] Here you go, one minute at a time.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u17	Just a quick question. Our way of thinking is all over the place. Minister, right now, if there was an illegal automaton set up at some place, this place would be, in quotes, out of the box for five years... There could be no other slots, whether illegal or legal, in this case it doesn't matter much. He couldn't work a vending machine there, according to the law. And that's how you... I mean, I'm not talking about you, of course. I'm talking about the drafter of the bill. The designer of this law with the absence of the said provision makes the mentioned places again places where you can set the vending machine. There's no five-year withdrawal. The supply of such places on the market is increasing. The number of slots will also increase. And it's not like all places are equal. In some there is a greater flow of people, the flow of people who would like to use such services on slots. In my opinion, it's a lobbyist action. I'm sorry, Minister, but that's something to say. You're increasing the number of places they can be Let it be: legally placed slot machines. I don't know if the state should go in this direction. Yet, as I say, if you take into account other rules that here are associated with slot machines. And this is on the occasion of the Law amending the Customs Law and some other laws. It's pretty deep in there. It's hidden. At first glance, the average user will not find it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u18	Dear Senator, you're more of a commentary. I don't know if you're looking for an answer from the Minister to make that comment. Because it wasn't a question. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, the reason for changing this provision is to analyse the market situation. And this is the direction of sealing, i.e. protecting players. And in fact, redirecting from illegal activities where players have no protection, no juveniles, no protection, no opportunity to pursue their rights... This is a change in the direction that if they have to play, let it be within the legal activity, where there is protection, where there is the possibility of opposition, complaints, where there is a ban on the admission of minors, where all this is monitored, supervised by the State, by law, legal and control mechanisms. That doesn't mean there's gonna be a drop of legit playgrounds. That's absolutely not the direction, that's not the reason. The reason is the need to seal the system, greater state control over the gambling system in the area of slot machines and the need to protect the public, especially those players exposed to... Especially the younger ones and the weaker ones. Other regulations apply, with adequate distance from vulnerable places, places of education or churches. It's all still in place. There are no other changes in this system that would increase the risk in this area, in the location of such...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u20	Thank you, Minister. You're asking Senator Bierecki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u21	In fact, the Minister answered my question to a large extent. In this form of questioning it's harder to intervene, but in some sense I decided to speak up when I heard a lobbying charge. Because if it's lobbying, here, in this bill and in this recipe, it's lobbying in the interests of companies legally operating on this market. And the purpose of this law, this amendment of the rule That's how I read it. There is a desire to introduce those players who play in a given location, so to speak, to legal trading. So it's hard for me to ask a question here, but maybe I'll ask you this: do you agree with that?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u22	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, of course. I was trying to say that. This is primarily a matter of sealing, i.e. ensuring state control and safeguard mechanisms for players at such points.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u23	Question again, Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u24	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would also like to ask you how this issue solved in the amendment, including the provision, is addressed in other countries of the European Union. Is there a uniform rule for all countries, or does the specificity of customs and tax administrations in other countries make these rules look a little different there? Please... if, of course, you have that knowledge.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u25	Knowing what it looks like in other countries, I don't. I'd have to check it out. But these are not harmonised rules, so I think that each country, based on its own experience in combating the grey zone, is making the right decisions to limit this grey zone and provide players with the greatest possible protection.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u26	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. But for the record, Senators Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Mariusz Gromko and Aleksander Szwed made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the review of the second agenda: the Law amending the Banking Law and some other laws. The text of the bill concluded... [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind... this is the secretary in room 217. I told the Senate that there were two speeches in the discussion, Senator Janusz Błucherz and mine.]] Then we'll complete... Thank you for that information. We have not received this information about Senator Bladder here, but we will add it to the protocol. [[Okay, thank you.]] Thank you very much. Second point: the Law amending the Banking Law and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 332 and the committee report In print No 332 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Paweł Arndt, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! The amendment of the Act of. Bank Law of the Sejm adopted on 25 February, 26 February the Marshal of the Sejm passed the text of the Act to the Senate. Mr. Marshal sent this text to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Our committee dealt with this law on 10 March. Now I would like to present a brief report on this law. First of all, I would like to say that the committee is asking for a law without amendments. The Act implements the Directive and Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union concerning the extension of supervision of the financial market and capital requirements to financial institutions in its national legal order. These changes are being implemented in response to the financial crisis that started in 2007 and 2008. The amendments introduced are of a technical nature and relate, inter alia, to: take into account to a greater extent the risks to institutions that trade on a large scale securities and derivatives, the new requirements for total loss-covering capacity under which they will be required to have increased loss-covering and recapitalisation capacity or to approve the financial activities of holding companies. The Act also introduced a number of other amendments. It is therefore necessary to amend the following laws: of course, in the act "Bank law', but in addition in the Act on the functioning of cooperative banks, their association and the banks', in the Act on Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, in the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments, in the Law on Financial Market Supervision, in the Act on Macroprudential Supervision of the Financial System and Crisis Management in the Financial System, in the Act on Insurance and Insurance Activities, in the Act on the Bank Guarantee Fund, in the system of guaranteeing deposits and compulsory restriction. The bill isn't controversial. As I said before, the only element that triggered the discussion at the committee's meeting was the letter of the Polish Bank Association, which contained a suggestion. In the view of the representatives of the banking sector, the provision should be added on the possibility of extending the time to submit a capital protection plan from 5 to 10 days with the approval of the Financial Supervision Authority. It turns out that such a provision is contained in another point of this law and therefore the committee did not have to amend it. One more thing I would like to say is that the law does not affect the public finance sector, including the state budget, as well as the budgets of local government units. Once again, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, I would like to request the adoption of a law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u28	Thank you very much, senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator rapporteur. Do any of you senators want to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. The bill was filed by the government. Allow me at this moment to welcome the authorised representative of the Minister of Finance, Funds and Regional Policy, Minister Piotr Patkowski. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u29	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! The proposed law amending the Law on Banking Law and certain other laws aims at implementing the European Union's rules on capital requirements for financial institutions. This is a revision of the CRD and the CRR, so-called. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be reported in column 060 of this row. This package is a continuation of the reform carried out by the Basel Committee and the European Union, which was prepared in response to the financial crisis in 2007. In 2015, the provisions implementing the provisions resulting from the CRD IV and the CRR, which were intended to comprehensively regulate the activities of banks and investment firms, inter alia. as regards supervision and capital requirements. Directive CRD V, the implementation of which is provided by the law, aims to take into account issues which have proved not sufficiently clear in the course of the practical application of the CRD IV Directive and have therefore been the subject of divergent interpretations, e.g. supervisory authorities, or which have been found to be unduly burdensome or too mild for some institutions. Main changes resulting from the CRD V Directive require Member States to introduce rules on the approval of financial activities of mixed financial holding companies and mixed financial holding companies, as well as direct supervisory powers in respect of such entities. These provisions were introduced to impose direct liability on holding companies to ensure that consolidated prudential requirements are met. The justification for these regulations is the fact that financial holding companies and mixed financial holding companies may be parent undertakings of banking groups. I would add that financial holding companies are currently not subject to financial supervision. The second major change is the introduction of a capital group in a third country of an intermediate EU parent undertaking where at least 2 institutions established in the Union are part of the same group and the total value of assets in the European Union is at least EUR 40 billion. This solution will enable the relevant financial market supervisor in one of the Member States to effectively control the European activities of the group. Another amendment is the provisions implementing the principle of proportionality in relation to reporting on the definition of categories of institutions and workers exempt from the obligation to apply certain elements of remuneration policy or the possibility of a simplified standard methodology for assessing interest rate risk by small and unsubscribed institutions. This means that smaller banks, with a relatively simpler business model, will be more subject to the principle of proportionality, which will in particular translate into smaller reporting requirements, disclosure of information to large banks and thus reduce their operating costs. In order to implement the provisions of the Directive, the Act also introduces provisions conferring powers on the Financial Supervision Commission to dismiss a member of the supervisory board or the management board of a bank, a financial holding company or mixed financial holding company and a member of the management board of a brokerage house where the person concerned does not fulfil the requirements necessary to perform the function in question. In addition, a change in the use of macro-prudential instruments has been introduced, i.e. the flexibility of the system risk buffer mechanism to establish a buffer for all exposures or a specific subset of exposures. The Act also provides for the revision of the maximum level of buffer of another systemically important institution from 2 to 3% and the introduction of an additional method for identifying the buffer of global systemically important institutions. Although the latter institutions currently do not exist in Poland, Poland is obliged to implement the provisions relating to such entities. As the rapporteur said, in the Senate Finance Committee, this law raised no greater doubts, apart from short questions concerning legislative issues and doubts of the Polish Bank Association, which have been clarified. This project also raised no doubt in the Lower House, i.e. the Sejm. I would also like to inform you that, as part of the amendments made in the Lower House, amendments have been made to draw up annual reports and consolidated annual reports for 2020, and this is a provision worth paying attention to for two reasons. Firstly, because this is not strictly due to the implementation of EU rules, and this is the only provision that is not pure implementation, but is, colloquially speaking, a national addition. But secondly, and this is important, this is a provision that a number of entrepreneurs are looking forward to producing such annual reports. So that this change is clearly beneficial for entrepreneurs and also expected by such entrepreneurs. I therefore ask the High House to adopt this law. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u30	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Me.]] Senator Swede. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have a question. The proposed amendment refers to such an additional prudential requirement. In what cases will such an additional prudential requirement be imposed?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u32	Mr Senator, this is a prudential requirement that comes from EU rules. This is a systemic risk buffer, which we generally only impose in special situations. At this point in time, we do not see this situation and it is difficult to imagine it, even the government in response to the crisis that started a year ago, various types of buffers burdening the banking system were lowering to help the banking sector. Therefore, it is difficult to imagine such a situation, especially since we are talking about institutions of global systemic importance, which in Poland do not exist as such. So it's a rule that we're introducing because we're forced to do this by an EU rule, but at this point it's hard to identify... According to the discussions that were conducted, KNF did not identify such risks either. So that this is a purely implementing issue, at this point we do not see these conditions. But if necessary, I will allow myself to supplement this in writing after consulting the KNF.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u33	Thank you very much. Senator Alexander Swed. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. So it is de facto such a typically deadly provision, resulting from European Union legislation. But I have another question. How long will the entity be in force to provide an application for authorisation to set up a bank? This proposed amendment also refers to such a situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u35	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u36	It is precisely this time that is not prolonged, in this respect we have no changes, these issues remain the same as in the previous wording. So we don't change that.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u37	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to ask you a question? I don't see any volunteers. Am I to understand that the Minister has yet to give a written, comprehensive statement? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Patkowski: Yes, to supplement.]] I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Alexander Swede. Thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Patkowski: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Nobody came forward for discussion. Therefore, for the sake of order, I inform you that Senator Alexander Szwed and Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: the Act amending the Anti-Money Laundering Act and financing terrorism and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 333 and the report of the Commission In print No 333 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u38	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At its meeting, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance examined the law amending the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act and certain other laws contained in print no.333, and prepared a report. The Commission recommends the adoption of 5 amendments, which were tabled by Senator Kleina and by me here. These amendments were supported by the Vice-Minister of Finance present at the meeting. Amendment 1 is an amendment which is the result of the proposal by associations of real estate brokers. This amendment is intended to exclude from the regime the reporting of immovable property in which the monthly rent is less than or equal to EUR 10 000. The other amendments are legislative amendments. The Commission proposes that the proposed report be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u39	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Finance, Funds and Regional Policy has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u40	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I just want to remind you that this is a project by Minister Skuza, which unfortunately has been quarantined for epidemic reasons, so I'm replacing him today, but I also want to calm him down. I've got negative results. I've been studying myself lately, so I'm safe... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: We are satisfied.]] ...even though I'm working with him. Let me start by reading a few sentences on his behalf. The draft law amending the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act and certain other acts aims primarily at implementing the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament on the Prevention of the Use of the Financial System for Money Laundering or Terrorist Financing and amending Directives 009/138/EC and 2013/36/EU, commonly referred to as Directive 5AMLD. The main objective of this Directive is to modify the EU legal framework for anti-money laundering and terrorist financing, which will increase the transparency of financial flows in the financial system and, consequently, to improve the functioning of the bodies responsible for the detection of funds from criminal activities or for financing terrorist activities. Assumt for the revision of Directive 4AMLD, which is a fundamental piece of European Union law on anti-money laundering and terrorist financing, was, inter alia, an analysis of the measures taken to finance the terrorist attacks that took place in France and Belgium and the information disclosed in the so-called. Panamanian documents pointing to the weakness of the global financial system. As regards the most important solutions contained in the project, they include: clarification of the list of obliged institutions, including by adding to it entrepreneurs within the meaning of the Act of 6 March 2018. The law of traders engaged in the trading or intermediation of works of art, collectors' items and antiques, as well as the storage, trading or intermediation of the abovementioned goods in respect of transactions of a value equal to or exceeding the equivalent of EUR 10 000, regardless of whether the transaction is carried out as a single operation or several operations which appear to be related; details of certain definitions, including. the beneficial owner, the Member State and the group; the extension of the scope of the financial information collected by the general inspector; the clarification of the rules on the application of the financial security measures by the institution, as well as the actions they take in relation to the relationship with high risk third countries; the clarification of the rules on the institution's keeping of the documents and information resulting from the application of financial security measures; the obligation for the Member States of the European Union to publish and update a list of public positions and functions which, in accordance with national law, qualify as political positions, the introduction of a mechanism for the verification of data contained in the Central Register of beneficial beneficiaries, and the obligation to register currency exchange service providers between virtual and fictional currencies and virtual currency account providers. Just a little bit more information. The project has undergone the whole process of public consultation and consultation. Therefore, there is a delay in the implementation of these provisions. It follows that we have decided that we should work on these regulations a little longer so as to go through the whole process of agreement and consultation. The lower chamber went through the project without much controversy. Six legislative amendments were tabled at the stage of the Senate Committee's work, of which 5 were adopted. Well, one question has been clarified. No substantive amendments were tabled to the Act. I ask the High House to adopt the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u41	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[I'm gonna...]] Senator Alexander Swed. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have a question for you. The revised process results in certain changes, including granting the authorities of the National Tax Administration access to data collections collected by government and local authorities, courts, prosecutors' offices, state and local authorities' organisational units and state legal entities. I would like to ask you about the information that the General Inspector can provide. Are there any changes here? I understand you're here as a substitute. If you don't know the answer, I'll ask for a written reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u43	We will complete this in writing, although I will allow myself to answer briefly. First of all, it is something that comes from EU legislation, so it is a solution that applies in all countries. The point is that the National Tax Administration should have access to such information, too. Until now, it has been owned by ABW or CBA, and the KAS had no such access. Therefore, the aim is to ensure that it is fully complementary so that the KAS has full opportunities to combat tax fraud. The KAS has been included here, but it's all in accordance with the rules. We are simply implementing EU rules here. And I'll give you my full answer in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u44	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u45	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The concept of politically exposed persons has been broadened. This also applies to us, including members of Parliament, members of the legislative bodies. But now the members of the political party's governing bodies also come to this. The Finance Minister is to establish a list of these posts, but it is not known whether the names of the persons who perform these functions will be published anywhere. Will this list be completed, so to speak? Of course, I'm not talking about a regulation, I'm talking about something, I don't know, a communication or an announcement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u46	May I? Thank you, Senator. No, that's not gonna happen. Indeed, proposals were made to include such a list in the Central Register of Recipients of Reality, but this would not be justified because this register concerns completely different entities. It would simply be unnecessary to extend this register. In fact, there is no need for such a register to be created, because anyone who is subject to regulations related to the status of a politically exposed person is obliged to declare whether he is or is not such a person in the event of the conclusion of contracts. Therefore, this is rather the issue of bilateral relations, the relationship between the body and the entity. This is about a possible interest in the services of this entity, so it is not something that would constitute some important public information. And as politicians, we're public figures. It should also be remembered that when we make a declaration about PEP, we also inform about our colleagues, about the people closest to us. This would be a decisive extension of these rules, and the European Union does not require this. So that such a register will not arise. Moreover, the need for such a register has not been identified.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u47	Thank you very much. You're still Senator Alexander Swed. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I'd like to ask you one more question. If you can't answer, I'll ask for a written reply. In what situations, in line with the proposed amendment, will the required institutions be able to apply increased financial security measures and is there any limit to the application of such a solution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u49	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u50	This time, Mr. Senator, let me answer in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u51	Would any of you like to ask me another question? No. In that case, I would like to inform you that a government representative has committed himself to answering in writing the questions asked by Senator Alexander Swede. Thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Patkowski: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. [[No one signed up.]] Nobody signed up. For the record, Senator Aleksander Szwed and Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the excise duty law and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 335 and the Commission's reports In prints Nos 335 A and 335 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Richard Śvilski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u52	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Budget and Public Finance at its meeting on 10 March discussed amendments to the excise duty law and certain other laws; this is in print No 335. The Act was adopted by the Sejm on 25 February 2021. In the opinion of the designers, the proposed amendments aim primarily at eliminating irregularities that exist in the area of excise duty taxation on excise goods and passenger cars by sealing the turnover of these products. During the committee meeting, representatives of the Ministry of Finance defined the main changes within this law. I'll allow you to indicate just a few elements. It was found, among other things, that the introduction of these changes will result in changes in the budget in plus the amount of PLN 200 million; from next year it will be possible, and in fact the obligation to make declarations in electronic form; the changes established concern fuel issues and the automotive industry. These are, of course, the main issues. I would also point out that you have enumeratively, High Izbo, the information given about the fact that this amendment to the excise tax law really changes 20 other laws. This is, for example, a law on sobriety education and combating alcoholism, a law on road traffic, tax treatment, a tax code, etc. I've only exchanged a few laws to pass on this information. It must also be stated that it was also raised during the debate that it is in the main sense such a law... Well, I'll call it a technical act. This is not a law that changes any issue related to excise duties. But you should also pay attention... During the debate, we raised the issue of the fact that the adoption by the legislature of the required length of vacathio legis raises fundamental constitutional reservations of a procedural and material nature. This element was also raised during the debate. Mrs Marshal, High Izbo, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Legislative Bureau has tabled 11 proposals for amendments to the law in view of this situation. During the debate, the Minister referred to the issues raised. He agreed with some of them, most of them unfortunately were negatively assessed by the applicant; I am talking about the statutory applicant. Representatives of the various sectors concerned were also present during the committee meeting. They are entrepreneurs, representatives of the NGO, but also Members. The discussion presented proposals for amendments to the law and issues beyond the scope of this law, and the Minister referred to the elements presented during the debate. Mrs Marshal, High Izbo, in conclusion, 11 amendments have been tabled, which have been put to the vote. Most of them were adopted during this vote. We recommend that the bill be adopted with amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u53	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jack Bogucki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u54	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! On 18 March this year. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has been working on a report on the law amending the excise duty law and certain other laws. The main reason this project went to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development is... This is due to the fact that tobacco is also included in excise goods, and since farmers are the producers of raw tobacco, this is for the work of our committee. The Commission did not comment on this law. She's offering to accept it without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u55	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u56	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have a question for... well, that depends, because I don't know which committee was possibly discussing it. Was there a discussion in the committees on the question in which cases the entity will be refused entry in the register of intermediary tobacco operators? And will it be possible to appeal against it? Was that mentioned at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u57	Here you go, who's the gentleman? The question is, which one of you is it? Senator Świlski, sir. Of course, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u58	To be honest, I do not recall this element being raised during debate or discussion, Senator. But there is also a minister here, and he will probably be able to answer at today's meeting. It seems to me that such a matter was not raised at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u59	Thank you very much. You, too? Or just Mr. Świlski? [[I asked if the committees were...]] Mr. Senator, are you...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u60	At the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, the discussion on this issue did not develop. The procedure for the reasons for typing and not including this is strictly set out in the Act, but I leave the Minister here to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u61	Thank you very much. Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have another question for Senator Bogucki here. Was there any mention of the additional information to be submitted to the Director-General of the National Agricultural Support Centre at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture? Was this mentioned at the committee meeting, of course, in the context of the proposed amendment?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u63	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u64	Since the amendments to this law did not touch on these issues and did not make any significant changes to the current legal situation, there was no discussion on this subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u65	Thank you very much. No further questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Finance, Funds and Regional Policy has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. You're the minister. And the Minister wishes to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u66	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to strongly recommend to the High House the adoption of this law. It contains a package of several solutions that respond to the notified national tax administration's Ministry of Finance's negative developments on the excise trade market. Designed changes will improve the operating conditions of honest companies and make it much more difficult for companies that violate the law. It is not a coincidence that this law also works with us, in the Ministry of Finance, under the name of the excise package. It operates under this name because it contains sealing regulations for the vast majority of excise goods. It concerns the marketing of contaminated ethyl alcohol, energy products, tobacco drought, fuel and shipping fuels and passenger cars brought to Poland. This is a step that will close the process of electronicising excise clearance that has been underway for several years. From next year As it has been for several years in the case of VAT settlements In the case of excise duties, businesses will also make declarations no longer on paper and electronically. Entrepreneurs will also keep records electronically. In this way, employees of the National Tax Administration will have direct automatic access to information on products, excise goods produced by market operators and traded, which will also enable automatic analysis of turnover and rapid detection of possible irregularities. A major change will also be the involvement of trade inspections in the process of monitoring the quality of fuels in terms of their origin. The commercial inspection will examine the quality of the fuel not only with regard to its, well, quality and driving characteristics, but above all also with regard to whether it contains trace amounts of dyes indicating that the fuel was not intended for vehicles, for cars, only previously intended simply for other purposes, e.g. heating purposes, whether it was created as fuel for other means of transport, means for which fuel is taxed at a lower rate, as the senators have rightly noted here. The regulation will also implement a solution which will significantly impede the authorisation of excise goods trading by entities cooperating with tax offenders, often by so-called. poles. These are often people who use stolen IDs, sometimes homeless or unemployed. Changes in the law will make it easier to refuse an excise permit when it is identified that the applicant will not pay excise duties, e.g. where there is no means or experience that would allow him to carry on his declared activity. Here I will immediately refer to the question which came up with regard to the Senator of the rapporteur. Of course, we are here within the framework of the tax administration, so that the decision in this regard will be subject to an appeal. Moreover, in the event of such a threat, the office shall request the trader, giving him the opportunity to replace within 30 days the person declared to direct the business relating to the trading of excise goods simply with another person, for whom such doubts do not arise. This means that we will not face immediate refusal on the side of the office, and with a certain Sanitation path, which in the event of rapid contact between the office and the entrepreneur will allow really quick replacement of the person to whom there are doubts, just another one. Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, with all this in mind, I would kindly ask the High House to adopt the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u67	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u68	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, the changes are as positive as possible, so that, of course, this is the way they need to be seen. Thank you for answering that question I asked earlier. But I would also like to ask what good solutions this amendment brings when it comes to local self-government units. Because we have these solutions here, especially with regard to the installments of the educational part, that's the information I have... So that as far as local government units are concerned, especially in the event of an outbreak or epidemic... What positive solutions for local government units include an amendment?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u69	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u70	Local government units are also beneficiaries of part of tax revenue from taxes other than excise duties, mainly income taxes. Let us remember that the main objective of this regulation is to equalise market opportunities between honest parties and those who cooperate with tax criminals. Remember what is the effect of leaving without changing the gaps in the law. The result is that dishonest entities, while avoiding paying taxes, can sell much cheaper, cheaper excise duties and very often cheaper VAT, either produced by themselves or imported goods into Poland. This naturally constitutes unfair competition against honest entities, and this results in very often, unfortunately, in pushing honest operators out of the market. In this way, unfortunately, the market situation is deteriorating, honest players disappear from it, do not pay public danin. So that any Sanitation solution that restores market balance is a very solid impulse, leading to accelerated economic development and improving the situation for all operators and, as a result, also improving the situation of our budget and the central budget, and the budget of local government units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u71	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions? Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. There you go. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: Thank you.]] Please take the floor of Senator Richard Śvilski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u72	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! That's the situation, paraphrasing the classics... Well, somebody's gotta start sometime. We are already on the fourth item of the agenda and no one has spoken in the debate yet. Allow me to take you two minutes. I'm gonna cut to the chase. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will not refer to the changes to the rules that this law is making. It would seem that this law...I also called it earlier a bit such a technical law. In fact, it amends 20 other laws that affect the life of a citizen. I've been thinking about what a citizen wants from people who are the law. I've been thinking about what the legislative process looks like. I was wondering what citizens' expectations were for us, for the Lower House or for the Upper House of Parliament. The answer is probably very simple. The point is that the law by us is a clear, clear, objective law, does not surprise the citizen in any matter and at any time. That's the point of the time. I'd like to focus only on the element of time. I am referring, for example, to issues related to the whole process of making changes to this law. As we have said, the bill was prosecuted by the lower chamber of parliament in February, today it is prosecuted by the upper chamber. We will probably adopt a resolution on this law on Friday 26 March. Pay attention... Later this bill will be passed or our resolution will go to the Lower House of Parliament, to the Sejm. The Sejm is sitting on 14 and 15 April, and the attention was not given to it, and the law is to enter into force on 1 May. Pay attention to two aspects. First of all, there's a question of the President's signature. The vicious would say that the President will sign anything that will be brought to his table, but that is not true. There are no malicious people in the Upper House of Parliament, so nobody's gonna say that. We're not giving your head the chance to use the art. 122 basic law, or constitution, i.e. to guarantee, for example, the issue of vacathio legis, these 21 days. But let's move on. Even if it were so that the President, the head of state, will sign this bill the next day after receiving it from the Sejm, it will be maybe on April 16 or 17th, then the leading element will come up again... [[March 30th...]] This is an extra sitting. On the agenda of the sitting on 30 March, as far as I know, there is no item. But, Senator, this is a secondary issue. And here's the situation. As the senator pointed out at the moment, I draw attention to the President's domain. also for the domain of the citizen. Because this bill is not a law that only brings benefits to the citizen. There are sanctions, increased penalties, penalties. But there is also one thing that we have not said that is very important in the tax system, namely that the burden of proof is shifted from the tax authority to the taxpayer. It's absolutely important. And, Minister, as in the meetings of committees and other meetings, we call on you as applicants to respect the citizen so that this citizen can prepare for new legal provisions. Don't hide all this behind the pandemic, don't cover up the COVID, because it doesn't make sense. Bring good legal solutions that we are able to accept. Mrs. Marshal, thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u73	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Szwed and Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would also like to inform you that Senator Robert Dowhan and Senator Marek Borowski have submitted legislative proposals in writing. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u74	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank the senator very much for his comments. I'm in a hurry to explain. First of all, I would like to stress very much that the changes implemented today by the law are largely based on the demands of the industry, from honest actors and their associations, which expect us to take measures to ensure that competition is even. Work on this law and the first round of its consultation took place in 2019, which means that these regulations are not only expected by the industry, but also known to the industry. Even those entities that did not report these specific changes directly. Importantly, this law is in the order of the Sejm on March 30th. That means the President will have a month to sign it if he gets to him after the Sejm's party. I would also like to stress very much here that during the entire legislative process we are in contact with the President's Palace and that the President is aware of what kind of changes we are undertaking. So that the Ministry of Finance does not see the danger associated with the date of entry into force of May 1. At the same time, I would very much like to emphasise one more thing: it is difficult for this regulation to talk about raising the level of penalties. At different stages of the legislative process and government and parliamentary questions were raised about the so-called. increase the amount of parking tickets. Here I would like to stress very much that this phenomenon does not happen at all. And I would like to ask you very much to give them this information in their dealings with entrepreneurs as well. What's the proposal? Raising the maximum fine for tax offences, which may be imposed by means of a criminal mandate. What does that mean? Currently, the mandate can be imposed up to double the minimum wage, i.e. up to PLN 5 000 600. We want this limit to be raised more than twice or almost three times to PLN 14,000. What exactly does that mean? The framework of penalties will remain exactly the same as it was, but more cases can be dealt with by way of a mandate. And now: what is the practical consequence? Currently, fiscal services detect a lot of cases in which the perpetrator's offence of tax is obvious, e.g. in the event of the arrest of a person carrying excise goods across the border, the detention of a smuggler. If there is no controversy about the circumstances of the case, both the office and the detained want to close the case quickly. The National Tax Administration gives a mandate in such a situation and the perpetrator accepts it, pays it and the proceedings are closed. The problem raised to us and by the National Tax Administration, and by the courts, is a very large number of cases that could be closed by a mandate procedure if the penalty was simply higher. Hence, our proposal to raise almost three times, so that there will no longer be a situation at least to a new limit, that also the office, and the person herself, so to speak, caught at the border wants to pay a mandate, does not want to go to court, and although the case is completely unambiguous, is forced to do so by law. And I would like to remind you that, as a result, 14,000 cases of this kind go to court every year. If this volume could be halved, the speed of handling cases in courts and the efficiency of the administration and the judiciary would be improved in a tangible way. Let us remember that in such a situation the indictment must be written, the case ends with a judgment. Very often this is completely unnecessary. And in no way do we make things worse for those responsible for tax offences. If they do not agree with the position of the authority, they may not accept the mandate and refer the case to the court and, at the same time, give them the opportunity to deal quickly with the matter, an opportunity which they had not previously had. Hence it can be said that here we are dealing with a solution that taxpayers are asking us to do and which is really expected by them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u75	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been submitted, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the law amending the Law amending the Law on Hunting Law and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 340 and the report of the Commission In print No 340 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Zdzisław Pupa, to submit a report to the committee. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u76	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour, and at the same time, to present the work of the Senate committees on the law amending the law on hunting and certain other laws. The committees held their sitting during which the law was examined. As of 17 March 2021, no resolution was adopted in 4 voivodships on the division by hunting circuit and the classification of these circuits into individual categories. There are four voivodships that haven't settled this case. These are voivodships: Mazowieckie, Łódź, Lubelskie and Śląskie. Due to the state of work on resolutions in these voivodships it is not possible to enter into force of such resolutions in all voivodships I stress: in all voivodships Until 31 March 2021 Therefore, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland passed a law of 25 February of the same year amending the Act amending the Law This sounds complicated, but to sum up, one thing has to be said: the lease agreements in force on the date of entry into force of the amended law are to apply until 31 March 2022 and not until 31 March 2021. The aim of this law is to extend the lease of hunting circuits by one year because 4 voivodships did not adopt the relevant resolutions until 31 December 2020. It is extremely important and necessary for this law to enter into force practically, also because in those voivodships where there are no such resolutions, there may appear areas which will not be leased as hunting circuits by individual circles, and thus there will be such a situation that the resulting hunting damage, for which hunting circles are paid, i.e. members of the Polish Łowicki Union... It is simply that there will be no one to cover these hunting damages precisely from membership contributions and the income of individual wheels. It is therefore necessary to adopt this law amending the Law on Hunting Law. The Commission has examined this law, has started a discussion and is in favour of this law by a large majority without amendments, and no amendments have been tabled at the meeting of the Senate Committee on the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u77	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There you go, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. [[Voice from the room: There is no...]] [[Voice from the room: It is, free from the cameras must...]] Welcome to the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u78	Good morning. I'm still present, although not physically, in the courtroom... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: But we haven't seen you...]] ...but I've been following the proceedings from the beginning. Mr. Senator, here's the question: what would be the situation? I'm talking about it in the context of hunting damages. For example, if you were in a situation where you're in a situation where you're in a situation where you're in a situation where you're in a situation where you're in a situation where you're in a situation where you're in a situation like this, you're in a What would happen to the hunting damage? Who would ultimately pay compensation to farmers who suffered such damage? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u79	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u80	Since it would not be possible to say, the owner of the hunting circuit, then the issue of such damage would have to be, can be said, regulated or paid for by the Treasury. So this kind of hunting damage should be covered by your money, mine, and every citizen. At the beginning of my speech I said that a hunting union or rather a hunting circle from its income, but also from the membership contributions, covers farmers with these hunting damages.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u81	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? No. Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] The bill was introduced by Members. Mr Robert Telus has been authorized to present the position of the applicants, but we know that he is not. In that case, now the representative of the government, the minister of climate and the environment, the Secretary of State, Mr Edward Sularka. Would the Minister like to speak on this matter? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u82	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to thank the Senate Committee very warmly for working on this parliamentary project, which the government supports. This task, which we are doing today, is, in a sense, also partially, the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which, like the state, those who are dealing with this subject, remember, in 2014 imposed on the marshals... whether in general he proposed that... question the issue of boundaries of hunting circuits, pointing out that the legislator, in this case the Polish parliament, must adapt the boundaries of the circuits to the borders of the voivodship. Thus, among others, in 2018 the Sejm or Parliament decided to propose a legal, legislative solution which imposed a task on the marshals. And you can say that and privilege Some kind of boundary formation of hunting circuits within the limits of its voivodship. As the Senator rapporteur said, 4 sejmikas from Małopolska voivodship... although the original deadline for implementing these records was 2019, this legal obligation was not fulfilled. First it was 8 voivodships, and at the moment, as we already know, 4 more Marshals still have resolutions on the division of voivodship into hunting circuits. According to our information, as far as Silesian and Lublin voivodships are concerned, the work is ongoing and they will be carried out. This also applies to one more voivodship, which I checked to make no mistake. The region of Łódź. As far as the Mazowieckie voivodship is concerned, work has not yet begun. We'll be monitoring this situation. Without these resolutions, we cannot implement it in all voivodship seymics. The Polish Łowiecki Union cannot implement the provisions of this law as a whole, because simply there would be a legal gap here, which would eliminate certain areas from the lease. And the whole area of Poland must be covered by the structure of hunting circuits, which, in accordance with the new regulation, will be leased by hunting wheels. Mr. Senator, right now it's not just about paying compensation for hunting damages. - No, it's very important too. But also the issue of the hunting economy. Without hunting circuits, the Polish Hunting Union would not be able to conduct the hunting economy. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Thank you for working on the bill submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u83	Thank you very much, Minister. More questions. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u84	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I would like to discuss these four voivodships. As far as I know, political colors spread out in these voivodships, you can say, quite ecumenically. While the Mazowieckie voivodship is managed by the PO-PSL coalition, the Łódź, Lubelskie and Silesian voivodships are governed by law and justice. So it's not a political problem, it's a systemic problem. Could the Minister indicate why these voivodships were unable to do so within a time limit that was not so short? Well, it wasn't a one-week term, the bill gave us much more time here. Why were these voivodships unable to adopt these resolutions? I don't think it's any kind of, let's call it controversial. It is about adapting to the law, and the real problems that result are serious. My second question concerns this issue. The question is whether any of these voivodships, anyone from the local government, has requested such a legislative initiative as we are talking about at the moment. Well, maybe it was that the voivodship couldn't make a resolution for some reason, and it made a proposal or a suggestion to adopt such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u85	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u86	Senator, as far as the answer to this question is concerned, I must say that we, acting at the level of the Ministry of Climate and Environment, have been communicating with the Provincial Seyms, with the Marshals. We asked how we were working on the adoption of relevant resolutions related to the division of voivodships into hunting circuits. Well, there were voivodships that did it without a problem, which didn't report any problems. As we started to point out that the deadline for implementing the provisions of the Act was approaching, then in most voivodships it was answered that covid issues prevent consultation. As you will remember, in the case of setting boundaries for hunting circuits, the marshals must carry out some consultations, for example with regard to exemptions. Well, the marshals mainly benefited from this argument that the pandemic situation prevents them from carrying out a full public consultation related to the adoption of these resolutions. Did the voivodships ask for this? Yes, the former voivodships, which requested that, for the reasons I said earlier, this deadline be postponed. No, among others. Małopolskie voivodship called for this. Yeah, I'm sure it was a Małopolskie voivodship, because I came across this case. If I remember correctly, the Lublin Voivodeship called for this. The marshal there also pointed out that he had problems with the timely implementation of this statutory obligation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u87	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. Please ask questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u88	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! However, I still have some kind of resistance not related to the meaning of this law, but to the reasons for taking it. How can one voivodship differ from another in implementing the law that became law in 2018? Date of entry into force: 1 April - No, maybe it's that date. These voivodships were over two years old... well, two years old. I'm talking about local government in voivodships. It's been so long, over two years. I was the councilman in the Sejm. The resolution is not being prepared. So there's either some kind of specific agility or evil will. According to the Minister, 3 of these voivodships want to adapt are in the process of preparing and adopting these resolutions, but one is not. Why am I talking about this? Because in this law amending the law on amending the law, there are really no sanctions, we here reward the attitude of not doing the law. Local authorities do not exercise the law, but they are rewarded, deadlines are postponed. Well, yes, a pandemic, only the pandemic was in 2020, since March. And let me remind you: the adoption of this amending law, which ordered a new division, took place in 2018, in April. Ladies and gentlemen, that's what's bothering me. Shouldn't you be... Because it is the voivodship's fault, and the State Treasury pays when a resolution is not adopted. Why don't we just apply some kind of interim sanction rule? Aren't you going to make a resolution? You're paying! Then we would just teach the law, especially when there are so long periods, by the way.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u89	Please... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Edward Sulfur: Is it over?]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u90	Thank you. [[It's over. The question is simple...]] Yeah, yeah. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. [[... or shouldn't it be? sanctions apply?]] Well, Senator Czerwinski's question is clear and clear. I, of course, would not like to judge the policies of the various marshals at this moment. As you can see, it's different on the political map, isn't it? Because even the Marshals of the United Right, who rule the voivodships, have not fulfilled this obligation. So there is no explanation here, and I fully agree. Probably various arguments are raised, but from my ministerial practice, it appears that one of the problems that arises during the work on these resolutions is that often at the level of the voivodship what as a Sejm, as the applicant of this bill, we have assessed as a privilege for the marshals, because in the consultation they can solve this important social problem... Well, it wasn't taken full advantage of. It's often just a situation like this... On the basis of the writings that appear in this case, I can say that there is even such a situation that you try, for example. sometimes completely artificially and unnecessarily move borders of hunting circuits, often already historical, within the data of voivodships. This gives rise to additional conflicts, misunderstandings, and unnecessary problems that are avoidable when it comes to this subject. Well, today the situation in the Polish Hunting Union is such that any change in circuit boundaries raises certain problems in relations between wheels, also problems with financial settlement related to contributions that were carried by hunting wheels in situations where, for example. part of the circuit will be in the neighboring circle, and the wheel has made some financial expenditure in the part that, as a result of the change of boundaries, passes to the neighboring circle. This raises a lot of problems and, in fact, these issues come out during these consultations. Well, I generally follow the marshals and I'm talking about not trying to force myself to change those circuit boundaries, because they're already historically rooted in our territory. And if you start to change them forcefully... Simply social factors that arise, and often discussions in the field between the hunting circles themselves, to which the communal authorities, the county... Well, it causes conflicts to arise and then it's very difficult to settle, even at the level of the voivodship, and map how the perimeter of the circuits should actually look like. Here, different factors matter. And, of course, there's the issue of sanctions. Well, the legislator didn't provide for sanctions either. I don't think anybody anticipated any obstruction on this. Well, that's what I'm imagining. When we wrote these laws at the level of the Sejm, I remember, as a Member, that this did not give rise to much doubt, that we give this privilege of adopting and adopting the boundaries of the marshals' circuits. Although, I'm paying attention. During the Senate commission... I imagine that, after all, it would be obligatory, from the ministry level or from the level of the voivodeship level, to introduce a perimeter of circuits. Right? But we didn't and we don't. Indeed, the Marshals have been given the privilege of a democratic state: you have the opportunity to establish borders in consultation, and take into account historical, economic and local aspects. The point was that these boundaries should be established. However, as you can see, some of the marshals didn't take advantage of it or didn't actually go to the topic and that's why today it's necessary to proceed on this project. I don't want to dwell on possible sanctions because those boundaries haven't been adopted somewhere. Yeah, but we're gonna monitor it, and right after we've adopted these records, we're just gonna follow, which voivodship is gonna eventually have a problem with setting these boundaries. I can't imagine that we're actually gonna be in a wedge. or that we will be held hostage in a situation in which one of the marshals would not take such a resolution. As I said at the beginning, which I stress, the intention of the legislator was to give this authority to the marshals, to the hosts of the voivodships for consultation, to discussions. We know that there are also environmental environments that want to be involved. We did not want to make such records here, according to which mandatory e.g. The minister or the voivode shall determine the boundaries of the circuits. We said: we give an instrument, use this fully democratic instrument to establish a border for hunting circuits. Yeah, but that didn't happen.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u91	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwiński wanted to ask the question again.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u92	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This time it's not about ideas, it's about the records that are in the bill. There are two very similar provisions here, and I do not know if the Minister is aware of the possibility of conflicting these rules. Art. 1, which amends the amended law, in point 1, i.e. in the amendment of the first, changes the wording of the article. 7, i.e. a transitional provision in the amending act, paragraph. 2... I'll quote it: the divisions of voivodships into hunting circuits and the classification of hunting circuits, etc. They shall remain valid until 31 March 2022 before the date of entry into force of this Act. This, i.e. amending, is the division that was made before 1 April 2018. And there's an article. 2 of this law, which we are talking about, which is changing the changes, which is: The divisions of voivodships into hunting circuits, etc. Which were made by the voivodship sejmikas on the basis of the provisions of the original law Hunting law before the date of entry into force of this Act, the one we are now talking about in 2021, shall remain valid and shall apply from 1 April 2022. Could it be a problem for two transitional provisions to be imposed in two laws?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u93	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u94	These dates are certainly thought out and result from the practice related to the date on which the lease agreements will apply. As far as the rules are concerned, once we have the division of voivodships into hunting circuits and when new agreements are in force... There's no collision here. However, there is some doubt, which was also raised by the Legislative Office, concerning the transitional provisions themselves. There's actually a problem here. If it turned out that, for example. The president won't be able to sign the bill by the end of March, then there might be some doubts about the entry into force of the transitional provisions. They'd be as if they'd vanished from the legal market. But there's no doubt about the dates here, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u95	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u96	Thank you very much. According to the Minister's last words, I don't think there's any doubt, but there's certainty here. If the rules don't come into force, they won't work. There's no doubt about it. I think we should be very specific about this. I'm going back to the 2018 bill, which the Minister said wasn't very controversial. Well, there have been controversies. I remember working on that bill. The controversy was. Of course, it was mostly about the way of pointing the great hunter and then hunting the voivodship or district. Those problems were raised. Now we have a situation that... then we were assured that it was a very good bill and that it would be much easier. Turns out it's not easier and we have a pretty powerful problem. This problem... For some time it has been evident that this problem exists. I have no doubt... Of course, the Minister may deny it, but I have no doubt that this ministry has asked Members to make a quick attempt at the last moment to address a problem that you did not pay attention to at some point. You should've done this before. What happened? Why is this reaction so late? Such a late reaction causes... the danger he was willing to mention, and the minister, and the senator, makes you put the Senate against the wall. The whole structure's gonna collapse... [[Voice from the room: Question, Mr. Senator.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Senator, Senator Czerwiński and Senator Jackowski also described the situation before they asked the question. Let us all speak on the same terms. Thank you very much.]] I'd like to know why this reaction is so late. This puts the Senate, I repeat, in an extremely uncomfortable situation and makes the President unable to take advantage of his prerogatives, he is not 21 days old. Who forgot to settle this? We heard the marshals. But why didn't you react earlier?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u97	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u98	Mr. Senator, I will answer the 2 questions I have noted about the doubts about the procedure for the law in 2018. I remember this discussion, it was indeed about doubts about the competence of the Prime Minister's Board and the powers of the Minister. The question of handing this over to the voivodships did not seem to have caused much conflict. Indeed, the discussion took place around the issues that the senator is talking about. But the question of handing over this task to divide the voivodship into circuits rather did not give rise to more discussion, we even recalled the argument that it is indeed in a democratic state as if giving citizens the opportunity to consult on the whole process of creating hunting circuits. As far as the response to the lack of resolutions is concerned, we from the Ministry level have been Vice Minister since October. We've been monitoring this situation from the beginning, how it's going, and we've been communicating with the marshals. It's not like someone slept through that term. In fact, until the end, there was a belief that the marshals would adopt these resolutions. Well, it would be hard to judge whether there's going to be some bad will or an attempt to delay the implementation of these records. We fully believed that this would happen, that it would be realized. Even the last reactions of the marshals are that, unless, at the time we discussed at the Senate committee meeting, 8 marshals had no resolutions, but at the moment when we are discussing today, only 4 marshals do not have these resolutions. So when it comes to reacting to the fact that there's going to be a legal gap, it's us. We've been monitoring from the Ministry's level from the beginning, and there's no situation that someone's slept through. But like I said, it was hard to give, for example. In November or December, a signal to the marshals that we are already extending this deadline and releasing them from this obligation. I think then, as a minister, I would face another charge, such that prematurely, so to speak, we are going out with such a project as a ministry. Seeing the situation that is, Members have indeed put forward this proposal in order to simply supplement this legal gap in some way. About that, it's a full agreement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u99	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions. Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Edward Sulphur: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u100	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Well, the Minister will probably not be surprised if I say that I do not fully accept this translation, that everything has been completed so that the legislative process is going on normally, and that is for the simple reason that it is so late that in this law, there is an article in this draft. 3 as follows: The Act shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication with effect from 31 March 2021. Here's the assumption, because you have to deal with it, and you had to... Members, let us say that it was the Members who had to deal with this and hence the sound we are talking about in this article. There will be further amendments and that you will re-examine this in the Sejm. This kind of legislation, abstracting whether it's a well-designed project... And after hearing the very interesting doubts of Senator Czerwinski, I am not convinced that he is wrong in these statements. I believe that, first of all, these transitional provisions are highly likely to be contrary to good legislation, even if we have time to do so. Secondly, it will put the Senate in a forced position... Because you're really saying this: either way, you have to say it, you can't make any changes here, because we're not gonna make it. This is not the way it can and always, not only with this bill, we said that such a construction of vacatio legis is not actually so much a vacatio legis, as you want this law to enter into force backwards is absolutely unacceptable. Thirdly, this is putting the President in such a position, and here I will defend the prerogatives of the President, that he must do something within a time limit which is in conflict with the terms which the Constitution gives him. I therefore propose an amendment which amends the Article. 3. After this amendment, he will say that the Act shall enter into force on the day following that of... The wording that it shall enter into force on the day following the date of publication with effect from 31 March 2021 shall be replaced by the following words: 14 days after the date of publication. This should be according to the legislative art. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u101	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u102	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! After listening to the Minister, I would like to say on behalf of the marshals: thank you, my lord. But, Minister, you know perfectly well that the marshals didn't ask, they didn't want to do any of the tasks that are on the side of the Treasury. So you're not a benefactor, you've created a problem for them. Mr. Senator, the owner of the game is the State Treasury and if the circuits are not designated, the State Treasury will be obliged to pay compensation for the damage caused by the game. The local governments of voivodships do not really have any part, apart from the designation of hunting circuits, in the area concerning access to animals, participation in the process of the election of authorities in the Polish Łowiecki Union. This is different for some time in the part concerning government administration, because you have de facto privatized, in such a dimension of PiS-owski, the Polish Łowiecki Union. Minister, you've changed the rules, which has led to the designation of a hunter's national minister responsible for environmental affairs. And so it is in the district hunter section, and they are appointed with the consent of the national hunter, who is the nomination of the minister of the environment, the government. You built your own administration with private money. But you didn't want to divide into hunting circuits because you know it generates conflicts, real conflicts between different wheels. So everything that's bad, bad, you left it on the side of the local government. So that again in PiS-owsk, as you can do, where there is trouble, we will leave to someone else, and we will accept only what is good for us and for our activists. It's actually a disaster in itself from the point of view of the trial, that you can think that way, that you can think that way about the organization, take over the organization's money. After all, money in the Polish Łowiecki Union comes from membership contributions, not from government grants. Of course, the Polish Hunting Union uses access and the right to the fact that it can hunt, participate in this process related to the game, which I will remind the owner, is the Treasury of the State. But the very determination of hunting circuits, Minister, you could have attributed yourself. Since you have already taken over the Polish Hunting Union, it was necessary to include a delegation in the law to the regulation, which would be issued by the Minister responsible for Environmental Affairs, and in this regulation define hunting circuits. You could have done it. You just didn't want to do it. I'll say it again: you didn't mean it. You left the trouble on the part of the local governments. It's no mercy, Minister. Take this. Even your marshals associated with the PiS will be happy to tell you: take this, take care of this problem, since you've already taken over the organization as such. But that's the first problem. And the other problem is the one Senator Pociej was just talking about. Unless the Minister knows that the President's pen is already warmed up. Well, if the Minister has that knowledge, then in fact, I'm out of what I'm about to say. You can't write down... and oblige the president to sign a bill without giving him 21 days to process the case. There's no way these 21 days from today you're in this presidential right. And the bill is due to enter into force on March 31st. Or, if the president signs later, he'll act backwards, which is unconstitutional. We're gonna be involved in a constitutional violation process. Unless we actually accept the amendment that Senator Pociej had just tabled, and the amendment itself causes that this period during which there will be no designated hunting circuits... will have to pay the Treasury for the damage at that time. I'm really wondering why you guys are doing this. Even such a simple thing, really, even such a simple thing you can't do right. I mean, you can't do from A to Z decently. 'Cause I'm... Good and decent are probably the concepts you know. I am aware that the Minister works there relatively briefly, but, Minister, that doesn't change the fact... Well, you're also responsible for what your predecessors did. And it doesn't matter if the initiative is parliamentary. Because you're right, Senator Pociej: even if she's formal, you've only cut your way out of public consultation, the way that comes from the government's legislation on draft laws. I said it at the committee meeting, and I'm gonna say it now. This bill cannot be supported. 'Cause what's gonna happen, like one voivodship? He won't accept again... He doesn't have to. The bill is, but there are no sanctions. You said there'd be sanctions. Put those sanctions on yourself. Sir, sir, sir, sir, sir, I'm gonna say it again. It will commit itself to issuing a regulation that will determine the circuits. Then it'll be okay. Otherwise... Please do not really scare and really accept full responsibility, since you have already done so much wrong in the Polish Hunting Union, full responsibility for what belongs to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u103	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Władysław Komarnicki. Is there any connection between the senator and me?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u104	Yeah, yeah. Can you hear me? [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: You can hear the senator very well.]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Dear Marshal! High Senate! Minister! Today I would like to share with you my reflection on the review of this law amending the Law amending the Law I consulted with foresters, local authorities, I consulted this proposal primarily with those who are people of the forest on a daily basis. And the truth is that the state for today is that hunting wheels can hunt on private land, and if the landlord gets in their way, the hunter can in turn accuse him of obstructing the hunt, which, of course, threatens criminal sanctions. I would like to say that this is the third time I have taken the floor on this law and I will repeat it again: it is completely absurd. Of course, I would also like to remind you that this is not in line with the Constitution, because the 2014 Constitutional Court judgment states that provisions allowing private property to be included in hunting circuits without looking at their owners are simply incompatible with the Constitution. And what happened to it? Nothing at all. These rules have been in force for 7 years. Let us now ask ourselves the following question: does the proposed amendment correct this? No, it's not. The novel only extends the current state by another year. A state in which hunting wheels unpunishedly violate the very essence of our right to property, that is, art. 64 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. In addition, this novel gives the hunting wheels the right to act retroactively, in its original version, before the amendment, as we remember, PSL. It's another violation of the Constitution. In addition, if that were not enough, this novel is incompatible with the Sejm's Rules of Procedure, because it was not consulted with the local government. So this is it. Okay, here's the The new record of the Sejm, which today is a trick of the institution of lawmaking. In fact, Senator Pociej spoke a lot about it as a lawyer. In the 3rd act we have a double violation of the Constitution and, of course, non-compliance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. The Constitutional Tribunal dealt with the case in 2014. Okay, I'll remind you. . and found that hunting law restricts the freedom of owners that their constitutional rights are thus being violated. And let me remind you, he's given 18 months to change the rules. And it's not like you've been waiting for this year and a half. The State has just taken up work Okay, I'll remind you. In 2018. And today's legal status is actually that there is a law that is against the constitution. I would like to make all of us aware that private property is limited in this way. Private owners have only been in the theory of owners for 7 years because they can't manage their own territory, they can't disable them from hunting circuits. Everything today works according to the old flawed law, and this bill we're talking about today is another proof of your attitude towards the legal order as regards your political interests. He spoke very much about this today in his speech by Senator Aleksander Pociej - Excellent lawyer. - Mm-hmm. Senator Stanisław Gawłowski also scored it well, so I won't expand this point because it's a waste of time. I met in the justifications of the rulers that this amendment of the law is needed to combat the ASF. There's no need. For the fight against ASF, Dear ones, we need, first, Minister, passive supervision, second, bioinsurance, not shooting at wild boars blindly. And the last point I would like to bring to an end is the issue of sanctions and mobilization of these voivodships where there are problems. Assuming in theory that this bill will enter into force, I ask: how will the government motivate, mobilize the voivodships that did not meet this deadline? And that's why we're having this discussion today. I'm afraid in a while. We'll meet again and discuss the next extension. Because that's the sad truth today and the situation, and there's no other one. I'm signing off on Senator Pociej's amendment. Thank you very much for your attention and bye-bye.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u105	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Ryszard Śvilski, Senator Aleksander Szwed, Senator Janusz Pęcherz, Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Senator Benjamin Godyla, Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska and Senator Jolanta Hibner made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. I would also like to inform you that you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing by Senator Alexander Pociej. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the legislative proposals put forward? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u106	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I will start by saying a lot of things to Senator Komarnicki, but unfortunately they do not refer to this bill, which we are talking about here today from this stand or in this Chamber. I will refer to the constitutional issue, which is very much discussed, especially with regard to the right of citizens to exclude their land from the lease. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the law in force, this possibility is possible. And as part of the consultation that takes place at marshal level, you can report it. It's clearly written. As a result of the 2014 Constitutional Court judgment, anyone who owns the land may exclude their land from the lease. The problem is that these applications are often made by people who are not landowners. Often associations that do not have ownership in a given area submit such requests. This is also the reason for regret, which is often expressed in discussions or in social forums, that our proposal has not been taken into account. Well, it wasn't taken into account because you don't own it. Just like that. And that's what I want to say very clearly. About the other issues... Ladies and gentlemen, no one planned to change the boundaries of hunting circuits until the Court's judgment had appeared, which obliged the Sejm to adapt or introduce a regulation within a certain time limit that would adapt the boundaries of fishing circuits to the boundaries of voivodships. And that's why this process of creating circuits was initiated. But for the record, 99% of the circuit boundaries are consistent with the historical boundaries that these circuits have had so far. Only at the borders of voivodships are shifts, unless for some reason some marshal decided inside the voivodship to move these circuits. But I'll admit, these are isolated cases. In a good case, the marshals moved the perimeters to their resolutions. Finally, there is a question of a transitional provision, namely the deadline for signing this law and the prerogatives of the President. Well, this provision, which we have in the wording adopted in the draft law, is giving the President time to sign at any time, in accordance with the prescribed statutory deadlines. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Marshal, for the opportunity to speak. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u107	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at this Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 342 and the Commission's reports In prints No 342 A and 342 B. I now ask the rapporteur of the committee, Senator Janusz Błucher, to present a report to the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and then the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the Act adopted by the Sejm on 25 February 2021 amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments and certain other laws. On 2 March, the Senate Marshal sent the bill to the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. The committee held its meeting on 10 March 2021. Following the review of the bill, the committee brings: The High Senate will approve the attached bill. This law is the implementation of the obligation resulting from the incorrect, in the opinion of the European Commission, transposition of the Directive of the European Parament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment. 8 March 2019 European Commission in a reasoned opinion addressed to the Republic of Poland pursuant to Article. 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union indicated that both the provisions of the Act of 23 October 2008 on the provision of environmental information and its protection, as well as the provisions of certain other laws providing legal grounds for the granting of investment permits for projects which may significantly affect the environment are incompatible with the provisions of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment as regards Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 3, i.e. rules on access to justice for the public concerned. In its reasoned opinion and then during its working meetings with representatives of the Government of the Republic of Poland, the European Commission pointed out that, in order to ensure effective access to justice, the public, when complaining of an administrative decision, must also be able to request the administrative court or an independent body to order a provisional measure so that certain measures may be interrupted and to prevent the resulting threat to human health or the environment by temporarily suspending the implementation of the permit for the contested undertaking. The European Commission also pointed out that, according to settled case-law of the Polish administrative courts, it is not possible to apply a provisional measure to an environmental decision, since it is an indirect decision and therefore the implementation of it does not pose a risk of causing significant damage. The European Commission also pointed out that NGOs are not party to investment authorisation procedures for certain projects, e.g. construction permits, water law permits or geological and mining concessions. In addition, the European Commission stressed that, in accordance with the article. 8 The results of the consultation and information collected pursuant to Article 8 of the Directive. This Directive must be taken into account in the procedure for granting investment authorisations. Where an investment permit does not adequately take into account the results of the environmental impact assessment or does not cover the conditions contained in the environmental decision, the public concerned, including environmental organisations, must be able to challenge the legality of such authorisation. Therefore, in order to ensure the correct transposition of the Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 3 of the Directive in question in national law must ensure that the parties concerned are able to appeal the investment authorisation decision and at the next stage It also refers the decision to the court and to the application for interim measures. The Government of the Republic of Poland has undertaken to amend existing legislation in order to eliminate identified infringements and possible non-compliance with Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 3 directives. Today's law aims to ensure that the public concerned can have full access to justice in the investment process for projects likely to have a significant impact on the environment. This law is divided into three parts. The first part amends the Environmental Information and Protection Act, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments. These changes are linked precisely to the introduction of an appeal and judicial procedure with regard to environmental decisions. Mechanisms have been put in place at these stages to enable parties and environmental organisations to request interim measures in relation to the suspension of the implementation of the environmental decision and to introduce a review and judicial procedure for specific investment decisions, allowing environmental parties and environmental organisations to challenge these authorisations for compliance with the environmental decision. In the second part of this law, i.e. in the article. Two hundred and twenty-five, amendments were made to 24 specific laws. These laws introduce an appropriate reference to the mechanisms designed in our Act, referring to the decision issued on the basis of those laws, which are defined in the draft as an investment permit. Additional substantive changes have also been made to these provisions in individual acts. These laws are not uniform in terms of those provisions which the European Union is calling into question as incompatible with the Directive, and therefore this amendment could not be made in bulk. The individual rules had to be amended because they differed from one another in some laws. And in the third part of the law, i.e. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Transitional provisions are in place. It regulates the impact of this law on administrative and judicial proceedings that take place on the date of its entry into force. The purpose of the Act is to include its rules of procedure in progress by empowering the public concerned and non-governmental organisations to the greatest extent appropriate for the stage of the administrative and judicial procedure which will take place on the date of its entry into force. In view of the European Commission's claim to restrict judicial review in respect of investment decisions referred to in the special laws, the protection period after which the court cannot revoke the investment decision has been extended to 60 days. The Act fully abolishes the protection period in the event of non-compliance of an investment decision with an environmental condition decision or a decision issued after a re-assessment of the impact. The same shall apply to the procedure for annulment of that decision. In turn, in response to the European Commission's allegations that it is not possible for the public concerned to verify the compatibility of the investment decision with the environmental one, the Act provides that environmental organisations and parties to proceedings for the issue of an environmental decision should be entitled to appeal against investment decisions and then to actions before the courts in relation to the non-compliance of those decisions with the environmental decision. Mr Andrzej Schweda-Lewandowski, General Environment Director, stated that the draft law and each of the articles were agreed with the European Commission and developed in meetings with its representatives and that the European Commission was 100% It accepts this proposal and considers that it is compatible with EU law and, above all, meets all the directives and there is no doubt about it. The bill addressed to the Senate ultimately includes 41 pages and 29 articles. The entire law addressed to the Sejm, together with the justification, the public consultation report and its annexes, consisted of 113 pages. Ms Małgorzata Golińska, Secretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment, Chief Conservation Officer of Nature; Mr Andrzej Szweda-Lewandowski, General Director of Environmental Protection; Ms Anna Jasińska, Director at the General Directorate for Environmental Protection together with colleagues; Mr Bartłomiej Zydel, Expert of the Polish Districts Union; Mr Marek Wójcik from the Association of Polish Cities; Bartosz Kwiatkowski from the Frank Bold Foundation; Ms Sylwia Szczutkowska and Radosław Ślusarczyk, representatives of the Association In a discussion that was conducted in a very factual and good atmosphere, which is undoubtedly due to the chairman of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Mr Zygmunt Frankiewicz, both the senators and the mentioned representatives of institutions and organisations spoke. Senator Janusz Błucherz stated that this law belongs to such legal solutions as can be said to not satisfy everyone. There will be no wolf's full and the sheep's whole. It concerns information on projects that can have a significant impact on the environment and therefore society must have full knowledge but also an impact on their location and implementation. All those involved in investment processes or earlier know very well that this procedure is very complicated, often without justified reasons too slow, incomprehensible to many passive observers. Local authorities know this best, who are accounted for by the residents with the effectiveness of decisions made, rapid implementation of investments in voivodship, urban or municipal areas. However, regardless of what functions we perform, whether we are self-government, parliamentarians, entrepreneurs, heads of associations or environmental foundations or currently ruling in the country, we should bear in mind the principle of environmental priority over economic activity and the principle of non-distortion of the state of the environment. If we take these principles into account, we need to examine whether this law, which came to us from the Sejm, meets the requirements and requirements imposed by the European Commission in respect of the amended law. Given what the government, but also the Senate legislature, said at the outset, it should be said that this is indeed the case. But is that the case if we conduct an analysis of the comments submitted by environmental organisations at the stage of its consultation, accusing the project of insufficient solutions to meet the objective of eliminating the European Commission's alleged incorrect transposition of the European Parliament and Council Directive in Poland It's on the one hand. On the other hand, we will take into account investors denying the proposed solutions due to their negative impact on the continuity and stability of the investment process and the introduction of mechanisms to stop administrative proceedings and to give environmental organisations new powers? Thus, Senator Bladder believes that it is necessary to find a gold remedy, which is always difficult to find, but one must try to find it, for example by introducing appropriate corrections. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz stated that it would be good if the lawmakers who propose changes were at least one term a mayor, mayor or president of the city, who deal with legal matters relating to investment processes every day. In his opinion, it would not be a problem if all participants in the investment process played on the same team, and it is not, because it is often a game of different interests. He said that if there was no need to attach an environmental impact report, it would be possible to protest it. His hair's all over his head. After all, we have different investments, such as: Construction of packaging factory and construction of landfill Or a piece in the Białowieża Forest or a piece of trees in Nowa Sola, where Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz was president for 16 years. This must be borne in mind, otherwise we will not make any investment or it will be very late. In his view, the law is necessary, but its provisions cannot be used by the parties to block much-needed investments. On the other hand, Anita Sowińska has announced amendments to the Committee on the Environment, as the proposed amendments to the Act do not, in her opinion, constitute a correct transposition of the Directive of the European Commission. She pointed out, among other things. to provisions preventing the parties from submitting a complaint within a specified period of time to suspend the procedure for investments not covered by Article. 72. 1 or as regards the possibility of access to full documentation. Mr Bartosz Kwiatkowski from the Frank Bold Foundation, who is also an ecological and legal foundation, clearly emphasized that they absolutely do not care about blocking investments, as mentioned earlier. He pointed out that the law was a step in the right direction, but only a step, because it did not solve all the problems, including the fundamental ones not noted in the legislative process, because it was accepted that decisions on immediate feasibility could be made with regard to investments that would be carried out without adequate social control and could have a significant impact on the environment. He also asked why in the article. 72. 1 does not have all decisions subject to social control, among others. localization decisions, spatial and land-use decisions. He also suggested that, in the context of investment decisions, environmental decisions should also be included in the BIP, which would greatly facilitate access to environmental information for environmental organisations. He pointed out that in Polish law, environmental organisations have limited possibilities to challenge environmental decisions, in which they were found not to carry out an environmental impact assessment. Article 1 shall not apply to such decisions. 44 Environmental Protection and Access to Information Act, granting organisations the right to appeal, and Art. 31 c.p.a. is insufficient because it is an evaluation article and it is often difficult to demonstrate the social interest of the organisation as a party to the proceedings. On the other hand, Mrs Sylwia Szczutkowska and Mr Radosław Ślusarczyk from the Foundation for All Beings, in addition to the comments previously submitted, raised problems related to the inability to read the file of the case before the deadline for filing the appeal, which in fact could give rise to the pathology of mass appeal pro forma, in order only to make time. They also stressed that the law does not give the possibility to eliminate a defective decision from the legal trade within the framework of, for example, the road, and that it does not really matter that the deadline has been extended to 60 days. The Foundation asked the senators to make the amendments previously tabled and not accepted by the Sejm. An interesting voice in the discussion appeared in the statements of patron Grzegorz Kubalski from the Polish Districts Association. He pointed out that where there are concepts of appeal, provision, action, it is necessary to make a clear determination as to when the decision must take place. He also pointed out the activities of pseudo-organic organisations whose real purpose is to extort funds from investors under threat of investment blockade or to act in favour of competitors vis-à-vis investors, which strikes these associations and organisations for which the need to protect the environment is a real goal. Therefore, the proposed regulation should be accompanied by criminal and administrative criminalisation, e.g. the prohibition of operators, managers in the event of abuse of the rules on public participation in the environment in order to obtain property or personal benefits, possibly the introduction of additional conditions for environmental organisations to participate in administrative and judicial proceedings should be considered. Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, summing up the discussion, but even before discussing possible amendments, said, among other things, that we cannot approach legal solutions too ideally that there are no angels themselves in administrative proceedings And it's not on any of the sides of this process. . and that if the records do not provide for bad intentions, it may lead to negative consequences in the form of coercion or terror in the proceedings. He also stated that it was not possible to talk about only flagship investments, such as the Vistula mine excavation, the Central Communication Port or the nuclear power plant, because there will be several, several, while in local governments thousands of investments are carried out. So we're back in the golden middle again. He asked the government representative for a position on the proposal of the Polish Districts Association... [[Mr. Senator, you have 20 minutes...]] Please? [[You can report for up to 20 minutes. I'm afraid you've crossed that time, and, as I see, you have a lot more...]] I'm finishing this, but I still have a report from the Environment Committee... [[Oh, another one...]] But I'll cut it short. [[If you can cut it short a little bit...]] Yes, definitely, Mr. Marshal. [[Thank you very much. There you go.]] The government's representative has responded to almost everyone... I hope, Mr. Marshal, that, therefore, a government representative will shorten his speaking time. ...spoken in the course of the discussion. Finally, Senator Bladder took over 4 amendments from the 9 proposals previously tabled by the Legislative Bureau, but taking into account the voices in the discussion, among others. on the part of the Association of Polish Cities or the statements of Senators Tyszkiewcz, Frankiewicz and Pająk, decided to withdraw them at this meeting of the committee so that they could be reviewed again and possibly submitted to the meeting of the Committee on the Environment or in plenary. The chairman of the committee therefore decided to vote on this law without amendments. The Act was adopted by six votes in favour, no votes against, and two senators abstained. This was a report from the meeting of the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration. Now the second committee, the environmental committee. The committee held its meeting on 18 and 23 March 2021. Following the review of the bill, the committee asks: The High Senate to adopt the attached draft resolution. The Commission has finally proposed to the text adopted by the Sejm of the Law 7 amendments, which I will mention further. Practically the same persons participated in the committee meeting. The Senators spoke in the discussion. At the meeting of this committee, Mrs Jadwiga Rotnicka, Vice-President of the Committee on the Environment, who said that the law should be adopted, in view of the matters governed by it, while at the same time reserving that we expect a certain consensus from the government on our amendments, because we believe that the social side should, however, have a greater share of these consultations, in line with the guidelines of the European Commission. She also informed that the brainstorm carried out in a wide range of stakeholders interested in the law allowed the drafting of 9 amendments which Senator Stanisław Gawłowski presented at the request of Senator Rotnicka. He said that this was a law that was going in the right direction, needed, but in order to fully meet the expectations of the committee's position, there was a need for certain additions, details, which are possible through the adoption of the amendments tabled. Representatives of non-governmental, environmental and environmental organisations have made the same practical comments as at the meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration. Ms Małgorzata Golińska, referring to the amendments tabled, stated that these amendments, due to rather extensive content, require a greater reflection and a written response to them. Following a brief discussion between representatives of the government, senators and representatives of the Senate Legislative Office, Mr Mirosław Reszczyński, the chairman of the Environment Committee, Senator Zdzisław Pupa, proposed to interrupt the committee meeting, obtain the position of the Government and the Legislative Office, and to vote on the amendments at 4 p.m. on 23 March. An adjourned meeting of the Environment Committee was resumed yesterday at 4:00 p.m. Just before the committee meeting, we received the government's position on the amendments tabled at the committee meeting on 18 March. The government's proposal was to reject all 9 amendments tabled at the Environment Committee meeting. Before we heard the reasons for the government's position, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, on behalf of the amendments tabled by the senators, withdrew Amendments 7 and 8. Finally, there was a vote on 7 amendments, which were adopted by a majority. The whole bill was also voted out with the amendments to 12 votes in favour, 2 senators abstained. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u109	Thank you, Senator, for your very thorough report. We now begin to ask questions. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I would like to ask you about issues related to environmental organisations. So what's their status gonna be? They're gonna play a bigger role than they are right now? Will they have more or less opportunities to participate in the environmental decision-making process? I ask this because not all the activities of environmental organisations are received positively. Well, there are situations when environmentalists effectively block the necessary investments. It is always, so to speak, a balance at the border between the social interest arising from an investment and the idea of environmental protection. It's hard and sometimes complicated. So I'd like to know if after we take these records, the investor "Whether it's public, whether it's individual" By joining an investment, environmental organisations will have to consider that they will be able to block the investment more effectively, in colloquial terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u111	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u112	Thank you very much, Senator. I'll answer that. In my speech, I pointed out that such a discussion took place mainly in the committee of local government. Yes, we were also referring to environmental organisations. Here the problem is that there are a lot of these environmental organisations. In their statutes they aim primarily to protect the environment, but some organizations stick to it and others do not. That's what the local government pointed out, but not just them. You can't put them all in one bag, although the offer... Well, according to this law, these organisations will first of all have more opportunities when it comes to bringing the decision to court. It was definitely negative. It's about how administrative proceedings have been so far. The European Commission has paid attention to this and has been amended by the government. This law proposes that organisations be able to lodge complaints with the administrative court. Are they gonna block or not? Everyone's afraid they're gonna block. I don't see why I'm worried, but if that's the case. ... Government representative, Minister Golińska, said that the proposal of the Polish County Association is interesting. Such amendments were not accepted because this would go beyond the scope of this law, but if so, it would indeed be possible to consider some solution to this problem, what conditions environmental organisations would have to fulfil in order to be a party to administrative proceedings.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u113	Mr. Senator Jackowski, one more time.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u114	Thank you very much. The problem is important because we are dealing with a specific situation. Well, Poland is a country that is catching up on infrastructure. Therefore, many investments that have already been made in Western Europe face resistance from environmental organisations in Poland. If we were to assume that the principle of environmental protection is literally superior, we would be faced with the fact that we could not make up for these infrastructure failures on a permanent basis when it comes to certain routes. I'm not saying all of them, but to some extent. And that's why I have a second question, ancillary. How to separate situations here At the moment I'm speaking theoretically, I'm not referring to any particular case, although I could give you such cases. In which we can deal with e.g. with business lobbying under the ecocoat, i.e. When creating some kind of infrastructure investment will be unfavorable for someone and someone will want to block such an investment using the environmental slogan? This is difficult because the public, you know, will be on the green side. And then this bad investor, who just wants to destroy some natural resources there, will be presented to the general public in a difficult situation. So I think it's worth discussing this so that we don't throw out a baby with a bath, i.e. so as not to limit the role of environmental organisations, but also certain negative phenomena that may arise in this area, and the possibility to abuse it simply in some way eliminate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u115	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u116	Mr. Senator, we've been discussing a lot about this, too, because it's... The so-called problem. In fact, the blockage created the possibility of creating the so-called. Specialist. They were needed at some stage, especially when Poland wanted to prepare for the Euro. And I am of the opinion that if it were not for the specialities of that time, we would not have this Euro in Poland, we would not have had motorways, we would not have reached stadiums and also some stadiums would not have been built. That's why these specialties were, let's say, a solution... It might seem that they were a temporary solution, and yet it turned out that they were solutions enough, let's say, cool, that maybe we wanted to use them too much. The excavation of Vistula is an example that certain decisions are already irreversible. If there is no possibility of appeal at some stage of the decision and its immediate feasibility, then we can simply cause irreversible changes in the environment, and then we can prosecute for a very long time.... That's why we're looking for the gold center. I don't think it's easy, and this bill won't do it either, but I believe first of all in the wisdom of the public administration, but also in the wisdom of the administrative courts, which will deal with complaints about administrative decisions. And I predict, as I said earlier, just now, that if there are situations where environmental organisations want to block solutions or administrative procedures for unjustified reasons, then legal solutions will also have to appear. And I hope that the representatives of the Ministry are also in agreement with this.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u117	Thank you. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz is asking questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u118	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I have a question... I mean, maybe before I ask a question, I'll say that actually the special act was the best thing that could have happened to local governments in recent years. And it's a great use for local governments. But I have a question. After the environmental decision has been taken, after the start of the investment, are environmental organisations suing the court for such a decision holding back this investment? I'll just give you an example: an investor, not necessarily a local authority, but it could be a new factory that went through the whole process of obtaining a building permit. The investment process begins, the factory is being built in Nowa Sól or in Zielona Góra, and the environmental organization from Białystok is protesting, and it goes to court. Does that stop the investment process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u119	At this moment, according to current solutions, this will stop the investment process. The question is whether the court will consider it... whether the public administration will consider the organizations a party. Of course there's art here. 44 and 31. According to Art. 31 was possible to investigate a situation where the authority had to establish that the environmental organisation had a legal interest in blocking. Art. 44 has a wider scope, according to which the authority does not necessarily have to consider this as a legal interest. As I said, this administration must do much more here, but at the same time we cannot And that's the whole point of this bill. Don't bring our legal solutions into line with the EU directive. Poland has undertaken to bring legal solutions into line with this directive. If he does not do so, the measures that are currently blocked for some investments will be permanently blocked. By the way, since the senator raised the problem, I'm going to say one thing. There is a situation in my territory today about windmills, that is, energy produced by, say, wind appliances. Environmental decisions were issued in 2012 and construction permits were issued in 2015 and no one was interested, because at the time there was such a situation that windmills could be built within a distance of, say, 500 m from the buildings. In the meantime, the law has changed and this law has caused us to have so-called. a distance bill introducing 10H. So the height of the windmill in my area today is 182 meters when it comes to 3 windmills. So we're basically shutting down 5 towns. And now no public administration has a problem. Although he also has a problem because he has an unbuilt or unbuilt area Only today are people protesting, who suddenly find out that they have a 10H rule, that is, within a 2 km radius, they cannot build and they will not build any apartments. So if the consultation process at the stage of the environmental decision were conducted in line with today's solution, this community would know more about the investment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u120	Thank you, Senator. Senator Tyszkiewicz again.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u121	I'll be very brief. I, with investment or local government experience, have huge doubts about whether to vote for this act. ♪ For today ♪ I'm certainly not going to vote for her because I have great concerns about the fact that investment processes will be inhibited. That's why my question... I don't know how much you know. If it is true that after any authorisation has been granted, after the start of an investment worth e.g. 300 million zlotys by sending a motion to court can stop such an investment, and I'll be honest with you, I'm terrified. And my question is: whether in the European Union I know that we need to adapt our rights to EU requirements In fact, the start of an investment for several hundred million euros can be stopped because some environmental organization protested in court? How does it work in Western Europe? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u122	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u123	I am not going to answer that question, Senator, because I am not as skilled as it is in the European Union. I think someone from the ministry is able to answer that question. I am able to assess that there will not be such cases in the European Union that the investment will start At least in those countries that have long functioned in the European Union which organisations can block. This process as if pre-investment should eliminate such situations. Today we are afraid for those situations that are related to the specialists actually. Because other actions can and will probably be prolonged a little bit, but you have to do whatever it takes not to prolong them. Therefore, there was a proposal from the Polish Districts Association to determine at every stage how much time does the higher authority have to decide. It can't go on forever. These changes in Polish law must appear. The administration, but also the administrative court, and the voivodship, and the general, should have time limits to settle the case.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u124	Thank you. I understand that the senator will repeat this question to the Minister. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u125	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! As for my question, it is good that you are in a double role, because you have submitted a report on the work of both committees, and the work of these committees was different. Well, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, which should represent the interests of the local government, recommends simply that the law be passed without amendment. What's interesting is they didn't really get into this committee. If I've noticed correctly, Opinions which, in some way, may not be revolutionary, but essential, may have an impact on the content of this law. On the other hand, the Committee on the Environment, which should rather agree with the organisation, as we call it in general, has introduced amendments, i.e. wondered. In addition, it has been the subject of the proposals for amendments to the Polish Districts Association, which are very far-reaching, in the area of environmental organisations, concerning the danger we are talking about. Well, let's say a simple text: it's about some of these organizations, I hope there won't be any. She has not made this procedure a way of life or, in other words, that it does not enter into the investment process in many places, at many moments, without having any greater responsibility. Because it's important. It's different how you take a material responsibility. But that's not the case here. There is an investment process and the possibility of blocking this process. And here's the question: why the different attitudes of both committees? Although, as I say, they are opposed to the scope of action. And, in particular, did you deal in detail with the amendments proposed by the Polish Districts Association, which have... I know they're out of the scope of the bill, but they're definitely related in general to what this law is talking about. Have you leaned over these amendments? And then what? Because if they're not in this bill, maybe it's worth a legislative initiative if they go beyond matter. And it is possible, even in senate, special, regulation mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u126	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u127	Thank you very much, Senator. Let me put it this way: do two committees have different opinions about the bill? They don't have any. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration had a meeting on 10 March, the Environment Commission on 18 March. Therefore, the same amendments or almost the same amendments were discussed at the meeting of the Environment Committee. Except we've been betting that we still have time for the Environment Committee's meeting by the 18th to consider these amendments. Because they were signalled, and then they were withdrawn at the meeting of the local government committee. That's one point. The Polish County Union had not yet tabled amendments in writing, but signalled at the meeting of the local government committee that such amendments would try to prepare. But even then, at the question of the chairman of the committee, Senator Frankiewicz, addressed to government representatives... Since we like the amendments you are talking about, we can, Mr Senator, take the initiative here in the Senate and think about what is next in this regard. And the county union only made written amendments at the meeting of the Environment Committee. He just signaled them before. And the representative of the government, present Minister Golińska, stated that these were interesting amendments, but they go beyond the scope of this law, and that they can be returned to them. This situation is kind of open. I see this case as an open case, for a later period, when the bill that comes into force, when you finally sign it, the president... If this law does not work properly, then one might wonder whether there should be a legislative initiative on the part of the government or even on the part of the Senate to amend the functioning of environmental organisations. We have a problem here. Environmental organisations that have tabled proposals for amendments are those that, in terms of their actions... We can't say that there have been any shortcomings so far. But environmental organisations know that some of them work against environmental organisations, those that are functioning properly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u128	Thank you. There are no more questions. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. [[Thank you very much.]] The Minister for Climate and Environment has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Małgorzata Golińska like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Małgorzata Golińska: Mr. Marshal, if I may, it's a short one.]] Here you are.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! By entering into what the Senator rapporteur of the two committees spoke about very comprehensively discussing the bill, but also in the discussion that has been taking place, I will allow myself not to repeat what the idea of drafting the bill is from. As the senator pointed out, it is a response to the reasoned opinion of the European Commission, which pointed out to us violations in the main law, namely the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments, as well as in some other laws, i.e. the so-called. Specialists. The Commission has pointed out to us that we should emphasise more strongly the access of the public concerned to justice. The EIA Directive, to which we adapt Polish law, ensures a wide public participation in decision-making, including access to appeal procedures, as well as access to justice in environmental matters for so-called. the public concerned. I say "so-called ', because it is clearly defined in the directive as a society which is or may be affected or has an interest in environmental decision-making procedures. For the purposes of this definition, environmental NGOs meeting the requirements of national law shall be deemed to have an interest in this respect. In our country, the general principles governing the participation of the public concerned, in particular environmental organisations and other social organisations and parties to proceedings, in decisions relating to the implementation of projects likely to have a significant impact on the environment, are governed by the Act on the provision of information, in short the EIA, as well as by the Code of Administrative Procedure and the law on proceedings before administrative courts. In addition, the laws governing the granting of investment permits contain provisions of the nature of lex specialis. It is about building law, water law, geological and mining law and specializations. The Polish government has committed itself to preparing a change of rules. This law, which we are discussing today, has been drafted with broad support and in cooperation with all the resorts that may be affected. The work was carried out by the Directorate-General for Environment as designated by the Minister for Climate and Environment by the authority empowered to carry out this work. Therefore, in case of specific questions, I will ask, Mr Marshal, for the support of the Directors of the Directorate-General for Environment present as those who directly participated in all the work, arrangements, but also discussions with the European Commission. As this law aims to ensure that the public concerned has as full access to justice as possible in the investment process for projects that can significantly affect the environment, we have introduced a number of solutions that extend the powers of the parties to conduct and environmental organisations vis-à-vis environmental decisions and extend the powers of those entities to follow-up decisions, i.e. investment decisions for which environmental decisions are required. On the one hand, our intention was to bring the law into line with the EIA Directive or to respond to the reasoned opinion of the European Commission, but on the other hand, it was also at our heart that these proposed solutions should not lead to the situation that it would be schematically possible to automatically block many investments. Hence, perhaps the discussions that the rapporteur spoke about today, and perhaps different views depending on whether the discussion took place at the meeting of the local government committee, in which long-term local government officials participated in the discussion, experienced in conducting various kinds of investments... This discussion was different from the discussions at the Environment Committee, where, however, the main objective of the discussion was to put certain issues as priorities by many non-governmental organisations. It is worth pointing out that in the Act, when we referred to the Commission's complaint that it was not possible to ask the Court for interim measures, we introduced the following solutions: we made it possible to apply for interim measures at the stage of the adoption of the environmental decision and made it possible to apply for interim measures at the stage of the adoption of the investment decision. With regard to the allegations regarding the limitation of judicial review in respect of investment decisions referred to in the special laws, we have extended the protection period after which the court cannot revoke the investment decision to 60 days. We have completely abolished the protection period in the event of non-compliance of investment decisions with the decision on environmental conditions or a decision taken after the re-assessment of the impact. On the other hand, in response to the allegations of failure to provide the public concerned with the possibility to control the compatibility of the investment decision with the environmental decision, we gave environmental organisations and parties the power to bring an appeal against the investment decisions and then complaints to the court regarding their non-compliance with the environmental conditions decision. As I said, it seems to us that, although we are not able to satisfy everyone, the proposed solutions address above all the question of compliance with the directive. But at the same time, by allowing or extending the powers of green NGOs, we do not give the opportunity to automatically block the economic development of our country. I think this is important in the context of the question that Senator Tyszkiewicz had just asked the rapporteur, but it is also important in the context that we have placed several fuses in the bill. We give non-governmental organisations far-reaching powers, but only after an analysis by an authority or by a court can the enforcement of an environmental decision be suspended. Why am I talking about this? Because one of the amendments that was adopted at the meeting of the Environment Committee is an amendment far beyond what we have proposed. One of the amendments explicitly states that the authority which considers the appeal against the decision shall, by suspending the proceedings, suspend the implementation of that decision if it has been granted immediate enforcement and that the authority responsible for reopening the procedure for the decision in the situation referred to in the preceding paragraph shall refrain from ex officio enforcement of that decision. And yes, the adoption of this amendment will implement the scenario that Senator Tyszkiewicz was afraid of. There will be the possibility of automatic blocking of investments. This is why not only this, but also other amendments tabled by the Senators' Group at the meeting of the Environment Committee, following the analysis that we have done with the Directorate-General for Environment, have been assessed by the Government negatively. I, too, today, ask the senators not to accept these proposed amendments so as not to lead to a situation where the solutions set out in the Act block us from making investments in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u130	Thank you, Minister. Senator Stanisław Gawłowski asked the question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, because this law is really about the immediate feasibility clause, and you are so cleverly avoiding this area so far, I would like to ask about one project carried out by the government administration and in a scandalous way run by the environmental administration, that is, the government administration, the Regional Directorate for Environmental Protection in Olsztyn and the General Director for Environmental Protection in Warsaw. This concerns the excavation of the Vistula Mill. Well, Minister, if you weren't so scandalous about this kind of thing at the government level, that's one of the examples, I could mention more. This probably would not have been the European Commission's reasoned opinion on this matter at all. But you did it. I say sure because I don't know exactly, I don't know the background of the conversation. I would like to ask, what was the reason that between the adoption of the first-instant environmental decision of WDOŚ and the granting of an immediate feasibility clause, then the appeal against this decision, by the local government, because one of the institutions appealing to this decision was the Pomeranian local government... that the general environmental director needed many years, I do not even know how many years, but many years to make a decision in the second instance. In the meantime, due to the fact that an immediate feasibility clause was issued, the trees were removed, de facto dug... already connected the Vistula Bay with the Gulf of Gdansk, damage to the environment was done irreparably. The fact that organizations can complain after that doesn't matter anymore. The damage was done. The immediate feasibility clause at the level of the first instance authority should be exceptional and exceptional. You're making a pretty common use of it. But this is just one example of the fact that today the Polish environment needs to be protected from the government. That is why the European Commission is probably asking about these issues. But I'd like to... I'm leaving my own opinion. I want to know what caused it that it took so many years to give an opinion at the level of second instance. What took you guys so long? Why couldn't you settle a case at the level of second instance quickly?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u132	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. The conclusion that if it weren't for the excavation, it probably wouldn't have been a legitimate opinion is far-reaching... Of course, that's the senator's opinion. I'll allow myself to disagree with her. The correspondence between the European Commission and the Polish authorities concerning the application of requirements under the EIA Directive in Poland was already initiated in 2011. The Commission services then asked for clarification on a number of points. After analyzing the position of the Polish side... The answer was in July 2011 and later additional explanations, in 2011 and 2014. The Commission considered that the Polish rules were incompatible with the EIA Directive. So to say that the subject has only just begun... Or else, saying that if it wasn't for the dig, it wouldn't be... This is, let's say, very relevant for policy purposes, and not very relevant for substantive discussion. The European Commission has not questioned the possibility of granting immediate enforcement of investment decisions by itself or by virtue of the law of the rigour. The infringement of the EIA Directive was raised as regards the lack of possibility for the public concerned to challenge this clause. Therefore, in order to respond to the Commission's allegation and to comply with the Directive, we have introduced the article. 86e Act empowers the public concerned to submit an application for the cessation of immediate implementation of the environmental decision, as well as the abolition of the current limitation on the judgment of the investment authorities on the immediate feasibility of the decision. As to why it took so long to proceed at second instance, why it lasted many years, I would say that from what I know, it appears that the decision was made within a year and a half. I'd need confirmation... Yes, the principals confirm. Therefore, the allegation that many years have passed is also an alleged failure. Well, a year and a half... The senator himself pointed out that we are dealing with an extremely important investment. It doesn't seem to be such a long term. As regards the details of the procedure, the Minister of Climate Affairs did not conduct this procedure If that's the senator's wish, I'll ask the General Directorate to respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u134	Thank you. That is the senator's wish for a written reply. Now you're Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There are two lines here, actually. One is about what's in the bill. I understand that these changes have been agreed with the European Commission. Was the Commission immune, I would call it, to the argument that such a directive... She may sound the same, of course, but what else is she, is another law, i.e. other factual relations regulates, let's assume, in France or Germany, where most of the necessary infrastructure investments are behind them, and others in Poland. In Germany, the same beetle, if at all in Germany... In Poland he will be more often, let's call it, in collision with the construction of the highway or some other investment. In Germany it will not be, in Germany it simply does not exist or what should be built is already built. Couldn't it have been... Of course, it's hypothetical. Was the Commission immune to the arguments that we are in another historical system, although perhaps not so much in another historical system, but at another time in history? That's once. And two. Don't you think the minister might be able to do that? I suspect he will. That this amendment will encourage the formation of pseudo-ecological entities that will feed directly on the provisions of this law? I didn't notice one fuse in here in case... What happens if the environmental organization is clearly wrong? Someone's gonna say, he's gonna lose in court as a last resort. Okay, but she's not losing anything, and we're all really wasting our time. And I understand that the more organizations there are, the more time we're gonna lose. And at many moments this time will just be concrete money, especially from the European Union. And that, contrary to appearances, will not be the problem of the state. It's going to be mostly a problem for local governments. I'm surprised that local governments haven't yet. In addition to the Polish Districts Association They clearly did not comment on this. The question is whether it is possible in any way to simply bind responsibility for their actions to those organisations that wish to abuse this right. And the third issue, also related to these organizations. There are proposals of the Polish Districts Association for closer supervision, so that it is He called it, because that's the best word for it. Who should make these proposals? Us, e.g. as a committee of self-government or as a legislative committee? Senate or state, government? Will we wait for this bill to work and only post factum will we react?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u136	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u137	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Thank you very much for these questions, because they also show us a little bit how the work on these changes has been done. It wasn't easy work. During the discussion with the resorts, many resorts, including the Ministry of Infrastructure, pointed to a threat to the investment process. And it seems that what we have been able to discuss with the European Commission... Because it is not that during meetings and discussions with the European Commission there were not many hours of translations on how the whole broadly understood investment system operates in Poland. Many regulations are not governed by this law, but that does not mean that they are not present, they are derived from the c.p.a. or from other regulations. Many of our arguments have been accepted by the Commission. What we are presenting today seems to be the necessary minimum required of us by the Commission. Having received this proposal from us, she fully accepted it without further comments. Of course, representatives of NGOs will always be careful... This was signaled to us during discussions in the Sejm, but we also heard it at the Senate committee meeting. These organisations believe that these powers which they should be entitled to should be even wider than what we propose in this law. They also point to the fact that they will seek access to the European Commission and will seek further changes. Therefore, it seems that the signals which the parties to local governments, the associations of counties and those proposals which have been submitted are worth leaning over them in the near future, without waiting for the effect of this law, because this law is intended to extend the cultivation of environmental organisations, to adapt us to the EIA Directive, but it absolutely does not prevent us from taking other actions worth considering and discussing with those who carry out these local, regional investment processes on a daily basis. And I think that based on their experience, we are able to develop solutions that will bring about some sort of order and order, while at the same time complying with the EIA Directive. It's not gonna be easy, I guess, after the discussion that's been going on, but that doesn't mean we can't make the effort. I, for my part, declared at the Senate committee meeting that I would lead to such a meeting with representatives of local associations to discuss potential proposals. In the meantime, they appeared in writing, submitted by the Polish Districts Association. At the moment, they were not taken over by any of the senators, but I also understand that they go far beyond the bill. However, I do not withdraw from my declaration. This meeting will take place, and I will also include the DG Environment as this institution, which is best placed to address the requirements of the Directive. The point is not to bring back the situation in which the work we are doing will meet with the Commission's accusation that we have barely fixed something, and we are already ruining it. I hope I've satisfied the senator. If the Senate takes this initiative, it will present its own solutions, of course we will lean on them. For my part, I declare my openness to such proposals.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u138	Thank you, Minister. Senator Swede. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u139	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question. As regards the issues covered and the implementation of this directive, the government is indeed facing a very difficult task. On the one hand, we are investing and we do not want to paralyze these investments, and on the other hand we need to implement the directive and allow environmental organisations to speak. But I would like to ask what it looks like in other countries of the European Union. How have the Directive been implemented in other European Union countries? Did we have any allies in these negotiations? Was there any common position, agreement with other countries of the European Union? I'm asking you to answer me if you have that knowledge. If you don't, I'll eventually ask for a written reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u140	Thank you very much. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u141	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! These systems are so different that comparing them is extremely difficult. However, I will be asking for the support of the Directorate-General for the Environment. But I do not expect an answer at this point, because the analysis that would have to be carried out in order to give you an answer is not possible immediately.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u142	The senator asked for an answer in writing. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Małgorzata Golińska: Thank you very much.]] Thank you. Senator Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u143	Minister, if there is no willingness to take over these proposals of the Association of Polish Cities, then I am prepared to do so. That's one thing. I would also like to ask a question similar to that of Senator Swed, a question about how it is in other countries. Because I can't imagine that in Germany or in other European countries it would be so easy to block already started investments. Honestly, I'm scared. As a self-government officer with a 17-year internship, I'm a little scared of this bill, but I'm comforted by what you said. You said that you were ready to do legislative work in order to find some solutions that would be secured not only by local governments but also by investors and investment processes in general. I'm going to quote one proposal, which maybe it's already rained here, and maybe it's not. Is it possible to do so that, in the event of an appeal against a decision before a court, the court has an obligation to consider such an action, e.g. In a week? Because a week will not kill an investor, but a prolonged suspension of investment can cause really huge losses for the economy and for the local government. Have you considered any solutions that would mitigate the possible adverse effects of this law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u144	Thank you. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Małgorzata Golińska: As the senator asks about the whole process, please...]] It's in writing, too, isn't it? [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Małgorzata Golińska:... the answer of the director Marek Kajsa present here, of course, if possible.]] Senator Tyszkiewicz, I understand, asked the same question as Senator Swed. So I'd like to ask... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Małgorzata Golińska: I understand.]] ...so that you can answer... [[Secretary of State of the Ministry of Climate and Environment Małgorzata Golińska:... in writing.]] ...senator in writing. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Małgorzata Golińska: Good.]] I'm talking about the first part of the question. And as for the second part, if you're the principal... [[Voice from the room: No...]] Who's gonna answer that? [[Voice in the O.R.: In writing.]] About this procedure? [[Secretary of State of the Ministry of Climate and Environment Małgorzata Golińska: Sala demands written reply. I understand we're in a hurry.]] Well, maybe... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Małgorzata Golińska: Mr Marshal, in agreement with these voices, that we are already very late, we will reply in writing.]] You'll also answer in writing about this procedure, right? Good. I have two questions for you. One, is it true what I heard? Will it be possible to challenge the decision to court, as well as to proceed to trial, only those organisations which are significantly affected by the investment in question? Isn't it? Can any environmental organisation apply to or proceed to court in the course of a trial? That's the first question. From what you've said, there are limits. Yes? Those organizations that have an interest in an investment... So it's not like any organization, let's assume, from Bialystok, can complain about an investment in Rzeszow? She has to show her business. If I understand correctly, I'll need confirmation. Or denial. And the second thing is the case of a famous excavation. Was there such a situation that an environmental assessment was not carried out because the government had classified this excavation into defence-related investments, because then such assessments could not be carried out? Was that the case? I'm asking because if that's what happened, it's actually... Well, especially for submarines Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula Vistula. So I'd like to know if this environmental assessment has been repealed because of the fact that the investment has been counted as important because of the defence of our territory.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u145	Mr. Marshal, as far as the community concerned is concerned, non-governmental organisations that work to protect the environment, or environmental organisations... According to the Directive, if there are 12 months, they automatically have an interest. They are therefore allowed as a party. But... [[So there's only this time limit?]] That's right. But many countries are trying to regulate it in some way. And I think this is the space that we can use just to meet the expectations of local government representatives. As for the excavation itself, please take the floor of Minister Andrzej Szweda-Lewandowski as the General Director of Environmental Protection.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u146	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards the excavation of the Vistula mine, it is carried out, this investment is carried out because of several objectives: tourist destination, economic objective and, finally, military objective. And regardless of which purpose for this investment we will take into account individually, the procedure has always been the same. Therefore, the entire environmental impact assessment was carried out, a report was prepared, an analysis of the impact of this investment was carried out, minimalising measures were applied, they were provided for in the report and then transferred to the decision. So that the military purpose itself absolutely did not cause in any way shortening and skipping any procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u148	Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Małgorzata Golińska: Thank you very much.]] I would like to inform you that the representative of the government has undertaken to provide a written answer to the questions asked by Senator Stanisław Gawłowski and Senators Swede and Tyszkiewicz. I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u149	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In fact, I consider this subject to be exhausted because the Senator rapporteur has presented the entire bill and the way in which it is dealt with. The Minister also answered the questions. I was interested to hear from Senator Czerwiński, who pointed out that perhaps the Senate Chamber could bend over or develop even better solutions to the bill we are talking about at the moment. I think some of our voices... We cannot communicate because an investor, that is, a local government official, has different tasks than an environmental organisation. Often this environmental organization interferes with this official, hinders this investor. So I think the main element is the ability to talk, to allow environmental organisations not so much to co-decision as to give direction to the final decision. I will sustain these amendments that I tabled with my colleagues at the Environment Committee meeting, because I believe that not only investments are important, but we must also invest in our environment. Investment in our environment is often incompatible with economic investment, but here, let's say, looks, we need to consider, because, as a society, we have a duty to take care of where we live, how we live and where we are going. At the moment, the European Union is placing a great deal of emphasis on climate conditions, water conditions, and all of this is nothing more than protecting a good environmental impact, not protecting it. So I give up my next vote. Thank you very much. I think that this, say, promise by the Minister and here this proposal by Mr Czerwinski can lead to a better resolution. I don't know how you look at it, but I'd be in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u150	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Władysław Komarnicki. [[He's got a problem.]] Senator Władysław Komarnicki, remotely. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u151	We have a problem communicating with the senator, so we'll try to connect in a moment, and for now, please take the floor of Senator Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The situation is indeed and extraordinary, and extremely serious, because, in order to make everyone aware of the threat at the moment... I cannot assess, but probably of several dozens of billions of euros, in the part concerning the provisions resulting from this law and the reasoned opinion sent by the European Commission. One corrigendum: indeed, the Commission in 2011 asked... but then accepted the government's explanations and returned to the case probably in 2019, if memory serves me right. I don't have those documents in front of me, and I can't remember the details anymore. Only after this period did the Commission decide to initiate the procedure and a reasoned opinion emerged. The consequence of these actions is, among others. letter from the Minister for Finance, Funds and Regional Policy dated 26 February. The Minister de facto suspended the issue of environmental decisions or investment permits for investments in the public sector in all institutions which carry out Union projects for which Union funding is to be granted. In this letter I'll only read a part of it. The Minister writes something like this: in order to maintain the funding, it is proposed to postpone the granting of investment permits where, as of 1 March of this year, the procedure for obtaining this authorisation is still ongoing, pending a review of the environmental decision by the supporting body or until the new legislation enters into force. That's the first point. And the second: where at 1 March this year. the investment permit has already been issued, the non-starting of construction works or their cessation until an appeal against the environmental decision has been considered. I just wanna say it and I'm gonna say it again. That the case is extremely serious and such flattening... I am sorry that the Minister did not defend the right of citizens, NGOs to access information. If the project developers who are obliged to draw up environmental impact reports were to prepare these reports properly, and public administrations, WDOŚ, GDOŚ, and local authorities in some part, in this case local authorities, issued them properly, there would not be all these problems. I will repeat this again and with all my power: then there would be no such problems, we would not discuss it today. And yet, of course, we are discussing and discussing this in extremely serious terms. None of us want Poland to lose the giant European money that is earmarked for EU investments. At the same time, we must be aware that European law is the same throughout Europe. The administration of WDOŚ and GDOŚ did not know that. It was created on the basis of an administration operating in France. So it is nothing unusual, in every country such a law is applied and in every country NGOs, citizens have the right to access environmental information and the risks arising from the implementation of investments which could have a significant negative impact on the environment. Sometimes we want to exercise this right, and at the same time we resent the fact that such a law is included in the legal order. This is something that I honestly don't understand very well. Once again, I have no doubt that this reasoned opinion, this process which was launched in 2019 by the European Commission, is due to omissions and such prowess. You're misunderstood, misunderstood. The government. The Vistula mine excavation is one of the negative examples, Minister, misconstruing... I could say another example of the whole process related to the deposit of brown coal Złoczew. There, GDOŚ showed a lack of transmission of documents to the administrative courts in due time, and even when it sent them, it was not complete documentation. Well, an outrageous trial run by the government. And it all ended with the fact that we are taking part in this discussion today and that we need to save the situation. Probably nobody will vote against this law, because if someone votes against the law, it will mean that they do not want Poland to benefit from EU money. But really, it's a clou case. and those amendments that I also tabled It concerns the issue of an immediate feasibility clause. And here's something I need to explain. The immediate feasibility clause de facto concerns the primary decision, i.e. the first one. Any administrative decision, including in this process concerning environmental decisions, may be referred to a secondary body. In the case of decisions issued by WDOŚ, the Managing Director of Environmental Protection shall be the secondary body. The immediate feasibility clause for a primary decision is actually extraordinary, it should not be abused. The fact that she's being abused is bad for the body that creates this kind of situation. This entry appeared many years ago, I was the author or co-author of these records, but we were in a completely different situation. I no longer want to recall the history of 2007 and these dozens of proceedings by the European Commission against Poland for the incorrect implementation of the rules in this part and the blocking of all EU funds. We were looking for rational solutions that allowed us to start building, among others. motorways, stadiums etc., etc., many infrastructure projects that were crucial and important. It was a scheda, among others. after the government of the PiS from 2005-2007. Back then, the predecessors didn't do well. I see they got into the same alley today. But then we were able to unlock the process. Today, we don't know why, we're entering the exact same alley. The immediately enforceable clause is outside of discussion in the case of decisions which are issued... all administrative secondary decisions. She is, the project can be realized, you can't stop processes. The party concerned may refer to the general courts, in this case the administrative courts, but this does not stop the implementation of the project. And they can be implemented in their entirety, as the environmental decision determines. The immediate feasibility clause in the case of the primary body leads to such pathological situations as in the case of Vistula Mill. The environment was destroyed, degraded, and then, even if the decision were negative, there's nothing left to fix, the consequences are far gone. And unfortunately, in this case, both the European Commission and non-governmental organisations, citizens, local governments have the right to... It is similar in the case of the deposit of Złoczew. There, too, local authorities are not satisfied with the process which is conducted by government administration, special administration, by WDOŚ and GDOŚ. So, really, I will support these amendments that have been tabled, and I ask all senators to support them. Because if the Minister sees the problem with the fact that the decision is to be suspended for 14 days or without a time limit, then I'll honestly admit that I don't understand it. Or if he sees the problem of only copying, pasting and making this information available to the community in some of the basic documents in the case of information submitted in the section on the environmental impact report on the electronic medium, and giving it a negative opinion, then I don't understand it either. It's bad will. This is not a desire to seek good cooperation and partnership with non-governmental organisations, which serve citizens in the vast majority. There are pathological organizations, bad ones that are created only to block some investment project that are created only to sometimes extort money, but that's what there are other services, other instruments, not environmental activities. If the administration works well, it can make an environmental decision well and defend it in further proceedings before the court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u153	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. Do we hear each other? [[Oh, now, now we hear each other.]] Good. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u154	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! My voice is, as if, the result of the statements of my esteemed speakers. [[Disruption during the speech]] And here's what I'm gonna say... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...Gawłowski. Here comes the old saying: the blacksmith was guilty, the gypsy was hanged. [[Disruption during the speech]] ...Not everything there seems to have happened as it should have, and indeed this degradation of the environment has occurred, which means that the tightening of these criteria or this right related to the possibility of blocking investment will translate into other, very important investments in the country. That's too bad. So some pathology can't give birth to another pathology. The Vistula Mill's excavation gave an assumt to sharpen these criteria. Speaking of Senator Jazłowiecka's statement... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...this concern for the environment was at the highest level. Collaboration with environmental organisations. I, too, as a self-government officer, have to say that it usually worked out very well if one condition was fulfilled: that someone has pure intentions. What Senator Gawłowski said that that's what the Secret Service is for... Well, I guess it's not. Because if an investment is stopped really important for the region, or even a factory... We are talking about local investment, but it is also about blocking commercial investment, which also translates into the lives of residents and economic development. Whether there's a specific factory or not... These are million-dollar taxes for the commune, these are jobs. This is very important. If you really can I'm talking about organizations that have impure intentions to block such important investments... I'm a little scared. I experienced situations where someone in the neighborhood was blocking the investment, demanding huge money, and when the money was given, he suddenly changed his mind, he wasn't so ecological anymore, and he thought that the investment didn't hurt anyone. I hope very much and count on the Minister's declaration that we will move on to the details and try not to fire the baby with the bath. I'm sure we're all in favour of organic organisations working. Most of these are good organizations that have good intentions, but we need to protect ourselves from, in short, eco-terrorists. I hope we can do this together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u155	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm just gonna figure out what's going on with Senator Komarnicki. Are you the senator? Komaricki hears me and wants to speak? No. Okay, thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senators of Sweden, Bladder, Gorgon-Komor, Godyla, Jazłowiecka and Kołacz-Leszczyńska made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Kopeć. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals and statements put forward? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'm sorry to prolong, but Senator Gawłowski's statement deserves a reaction. I want you to hear what the situation is like. The first plea, i.e. the claim that the European Commission didn't mind until this evil government of PiS came in, did a dig and it all started. I will no longer say what has happened since 2011 until 2014 when the Commission concluded that the Polish rules are incompatible with the EIA Directive. I would like to draw attention to the fact that at the beginning of 2016, so just after the government changed, the Commission sent out a call to remedy the infringement, to fail to ensure that the public concerned is able to participate in the process. Here's another charge. Senator Gawłowski, once again arguing why the amendments of the Senators' Group have been tabled, accuses me that I do not want to accept... he asks me what it is harming me to set specific deadlines, to delete a 14-day deadline for making the investment decision available on the BIP website. We have repeatedly stressed that this term is based on the same rules in the CC. The introduction of a deadline only for organic organisations will lead to unequal treatment of the parties. That's one thing. Secondly, the removal of a 14-day deadline without a new deadline will result in the opposite effect from that assumed by the applicant's representative. There may be a situation where something which, according to our regulations, must be on the pages of a minimum of 14 days is a minimum time limit, not a maximum time limit, can be removed if such an amendment is adopted, e.g. within a period of time. 24 hours after release. Another accusation by the senator is that we do not want to accept that the necessary documentation can be made available in the BIP. This is as if stubbornness to the stubbornness itself, because all documents that influence the investment process are electronic. First note. The electronics only took place in 2019 and so we can consider that since then most of the documents have the chance to be transmitted on electronic media, although many cases and many investments were carried out earlier, so the documentation is paper-based. Well, despite the electronization of land register extracts, registration maps and local development plans can still be transmitted only in paper form. In order to meet the requirements of this amendment, which has been proposed by your senators, a few thousand bodies that are involved in issuing decisions will have to bear additional costs. You may even have to hire new people, and this is all just to meet the requirement to share this extensive BIP documentation. Let me just mention that this documentation 1 case does not take 1 binder or 2 binders, but even 2 or 3 cabinets full of binders. This includes a whole bunch of maps, large format documents, which are not so easy to make available in BIP. Few of these documents include a whole lot of information that constitutes sensitive data. Therefore, it would first have to be made anonymous of this documentation, of this data, and only then made available in the Public Information Bulletin. I've talked about the other amendments before. Well, one of the charges that the senator keeps coming back to is the alleged environmental damage associated with the Vistula mine excavation. First of all, the director general of environmental protection has already shown us in his statement what a path this entire investment has gone. Just because someone doesn't like an idea doesn't mean that this idea violates regulations, Polish law or EU law. This isn't the same yet. But since the senator is so worried about environmental damage, it's worth pointing to one of my investments. It's the so-called. The Jamnen Gate, which was realized at the very time when the senator served as Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Environment. WDOŚ considered that there had been environmental damage and that the implementation of this investment had not even been preceded by the implementation of the report. Therefore, we would like to say that the devil is dressed in an ornament. The last case is the charge that I don't want to go against these automatic rigors. Well, you don't understand why I don't support environmental organizations. It is worth pointing out that the law we are talking about and which we are amending today was created in 2008. I'm just going to ask why the government of that time didn't write down these brilliant solutions in this very act, as well as in many of its special laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u157	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Commission for the Territorial Government and State Administration and the Environment Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Road Transport Act. The text of the act is contained in print no 336 and the report of the committee In print No 336 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Halina Poora, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 23 March a meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure took place, which unanimously gave a positive opinion on the Act in print no 336. I ask the High House to adopt this law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u159	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome, Minister. We have Minister Rafał Weber, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Brief information on the purpose of this submission. It did not raise any doubts either in the Senate or in the Seym, but it is worth saying a few sentences about this law. That law is intended to implement the provisions of Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/2205 of the European Commission of 29 November 2017 on detailed rules for the procedures for reporting commercial vehicles showing serious or dangerous deficiencies identified during the roadside technical inspection. That Regulation requires Member States carrying out roadside technical checks to notify without delay the results of the inspection of the contact point of the Member State of registration of the vehicle. This notification should be made using an exchange system for communicators This is the RSI system. In addition, the Regulation sets out procedures and minimum requirements for the content of RSI messages. Therefore, the proposed provisions of the Act assume that the exchange of RSI messages will take place on the basis of data collected in the Central Record of Violations. It is an electronic system operated by the Chief Inspector of Road Transport. The draft law introduces the obligation, firstly, to collect information on the VIN number of the controlled vehicle in the Central Register of Violations and, secondly, to provide information on the results of checks by the main road transport inspector to other European Union contact points competent for the country of registration of the vehicle during which serious or dangerous deficiencies have been identified using the RSI message exchange system. The Act shall enter into force 14 days after the date of publication. As I said at the beginning, it did not arouse great emotions during seym and senate work. I ask the High House to accept the bill submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u161	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Alexander Swed. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u162	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question for you. This amendment introduces an obligation to collect information about the VIN number of the controlled vehicle. Individual countries of the European Union... As I understand it, all of you are gathering this information. Will there be one central point in the European Union that will collect this data from all countries when it comes to control?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u163	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I can't answer that question right now. If you don't mind, I'll do it in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u164	Of course. Are there any more questions, Senator? There isn't. Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: Thank you very much.]] I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Alexander Swede. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, the Senators Gromko, Sweden, Łuczak, Gromek, Durlak and Kołacz-Leszczyńska made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held... [[Voice from the Chamber: What about the legislative proposal?]] But I have no conclusion here. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Wait a minute, this is where we need to determine whether a legislative proposal has been tabled. [[Voice in the O.R.: There was no conclusion...]] [[Voice from the room: Maybe it's to the next point...]] Senators, I'd like a moment of patience. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm declaring a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 24 to 15 minutes 25]] I'm reopening the session. We have clarified the matter: there are no legislative proposals at this point. So I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I would like to remind you that item eight: the amendment of the Rail Transport Act will be considered on the second day of the meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Road Traffic and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 337 and the report of the Commission In print No 337-A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Arthur Dunin, to present the report of the committee and then the conclusions of the minority committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u165	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am very pleased and proud to present a report on the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure held on 19 March 2021 on the Law amending the Road Traffic Law and certain other laws. Ladies and gentlemen, the law really concerns the regulation of scooters and scooters. Wait a minute, personal transport devices. The main task of this law That's what the Minister said. It was legal to regulate scooters, their speed, their departure to parking places and pedestrian safety. This bill is really needed. Some things need to be regulated so that there is no suffrage, but they need to be regulated, as it seems wise to find a compromise between the safety of electrical devices and the safety of other people on the way. The discussion was substantive because this case should not be political, security should not be political. The bill has quite a long history, but we are very happy that it has finally been created. I am very pleased that the regulations governing all things and ensuring road safety have been adopted for people who move, among others. scooters or personal transport devices, but also pedestrians. The basic thing in this act is that scooters can move according to the provisions of the Act: on the roads up to 30 km/h, mainly after the designated places for bicycles and as a last resort on the sidewalks. And that assumption is absolutely right. That's the way it's supposed to be. The devil, of course, is in the details. Each of us has a different view of certain things and amendments that have been tabled, including this. In the bill, e.g. As far as scooters are concerned, there is a record that at a speed close to pedestrian speed. The amendment, which was tabled at the committee meeting, was as follows: at a speed adapted to the driving conditions. The speed limit of 20 km/h for scooters is recorded in the act. One of the amendments increased it by 5 km/h and allowed for scooter rides at a speed of up to 25 km/h. Also, when it comes to matters related to whether a scooter can be taken to a road which has a limit of 30 km/h, a speed limit of 30 km/h... One of the amendments was to give the citizen the option to choose whether he would want to move on the road, which is limited to 50 km/h. The amendments were also proposed by the Legislative Bureau. Two amendments were made to the majority. One concerned an article. 86a, that you can't punish people who will drive slower, just those who will drive faster. This amendment was accepted by the High Commission. The second amendment, tabled by your President, was that the road manager could also plan and carry out lighting for pedestrian crossings or bike rides on public roads on the site. Here was a suggestion from the Legislative Bureau that this amendment goes beyond the submission that reached the Senate. And the third amendment, which received a positive opinion from the committee, is the amendment proposed by the Legislative Bureau on vocabulary. The word 'Fulfillment' is replaced by 'Fulfillment must'. This is about technical requirements. The previous amendments I was talking about did not get the majority. They were reported as a minority request. The marshal allowed me to present them in one speech, and so I did. Thank you very much. So we don't get caught up in a case. Between the committee meeting and today's Senate meeting, ladies and gentlemen, after some discussions and discussions, also with local government institutions and NGOs dealing with this issue... I would like to make an additional amendment to the Marshal's hand, which I will try to discuss briefly. I'd like to report an autocorrection to the minority amendment. The words I reported sounded at a speed adjusted to the driving conditions. I would like to change it to a speed adapted to traffic conditions. This is a broader issue which, I hope, will also not raise any doubts. The main point is to adapt this ride to the pedestrian movement. Oh, and I would like to point out that these amendments are being tabled together with Senator Jack Bury. The second amendment concerns Article. 130a. These were the applications for the use of poorly parked equipment. They're especially self-government... But also as I talked to the police, she suggested that this solution, every time you ride and take off these scooters... Well, that's not gonna be a good solution. Hence the amendment to the article. 130a. And another amendment is an amendment extending the deadline for the adoption of this law from 30 to 60 days. Mr. Marshal, I'd like to present this set of amendments on behalf of myself and Senator Bure. [[May I?]] Yes, of course, Mr. Marshal. I hope that the Ministry, which stands in the position of support for the presentation which has been submitted to the Senate, will bend over again and once again the arguments which were put forward at the committee meeting... will nevertheless agree to safeguard one and the other, because this is a good compromise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u166	Thank you very much, Senator. Please remain on the speaker, as the senators can now report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Swede. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u167	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, this is a very important amendment, of course we are all in favour of ensuring security. We know that scooters have become an important means of transport, especially in big cities. I would like to ask if some statistics were presented at the committee meeting on scooter users in the context of various road events on the sidewalks, on the roads. Were there such statistics presented, and if so, how many such events do we have? How important is it to regulate the use of scooters in cities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u168	As I said, the discussion concerned changes to individual articles. It was not discussed, the Minister did not provide any information on road accidents involving scooters or other personal transport equipment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u169	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator... [[Senator Beat Małecka-Libera: Małecka-Libera.]] ...Libera-Libera. I'm so sorry. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. If the senator can't answer, I'll direct him to the government. I agree with my previous speaker that the issue of pedestrian safety and those who use scooters and skateboards is extremely important. This is an area that has not yet been regulated, and I am very pleased that we can talk about it today. I would like to ask whether, during the work of the committee on this law, the results of some expert opinion were presented or perhaps the opinions of experts who have decided that from the age of ten these scooters have been allowed to be used. In my opinion, it's a very low age limit, it's about children. Question: were such expertise presented to the committee? And the other thing about helmets. Did you talk about it? Will it be mandatory to use them? What were the suggestions in this regard? You're welcome, Senator, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u171	Mrs. Senator, on this other subject, we've already asked one senator why there's no record of helmets in the bill. I share the position of Minister Let's educate, let's teach, that we should use these helmets. When we rent a scooter... Well, that recipe would be hard... We would be discouraged from using scooters or other personal driving devices. I will be with the Ministry, with the Minister, encouraging everyone to wear protective helmets, but it does not seem appropriate to write down this obligation rigidly. He rests on us parents so that we can have children up to the age of 16 with these helmets and influence the children to use these helmets. I agree with the Minister here. Let's not write it down in the law, let's do education in this area. In my opinion, this will have better results. Age 10 years. Ladies and gentlemen, since this year of life you can get a bike card, since this year children can ride bikes. I don't see anything wrong with having children since I was 10 years old... Let me remind you that the bill states that they need to get a bike card. So let's leave this age in the bill. I have a kid about this age, and it's doing great. Well, he's gonna have to pass the bike card test first. I believe that this bill is needed because it will help children learn about traffic and in theory and in practice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u172	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u173	But I'd like to ask. Well, with all due respect, Mr. Senator, I understand that we allow children because they ride bikes, but I did ask for the position of experts, whether there were studies that confirm that this is the right age for children on these scooters to ride. I was asking if... [[I see.]] ...there were consultations, expertise, some conversations with experts.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u174	No, there was no such question at the committee meeting, so there was no answer to what the senator asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u175	Thank you very much. You ask Senator Janusz Gromek a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u176	Exactly. The senator's question was whether there were discussions and consultations. For 12 years of being president, I've experienced what security is. It's not just scooters. Because you're talking about scooters, but I'm talking about go-karts. And it was also asked by Senator Swede how many cases of anything or accidents were there, or... There are no statistics, but it wasn't a small number. Luckily, there's a city guard in Kolobrzeg that worked in some way. But I've spoken to a lot of ministers in this case to make it happen, there's a bill that's going to talk about speed limitations, overtaking rules, types of roads, an acceptable stopping point, etc., etc. So that such discussions at the stage of the creation of this e.g. Whether with the city police chiefs or with the local authorities, they could do a lot of good. Because I'm sure that even if we pass this bill, there will still be some elements that will have to be added or changed. But since there will be a regulation of this, I am very pleased. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u177	Anything else?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u178	I don't know if I should answer because here... Mr. Senator, yes. Well, as I said at the beginning, I think the High House is pleased that this project has seen the light of day and we can think about it and vote it out. But as I said before, there was no record of accidents involving scooters.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u179	Thank you. You're still asking Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u180	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, you raised an important issue earlier about getting a bike card, because indeed younger users will have to have a bike card. Was the committee meeting discussing the procedure for joining the cycling card exam during the current Coronavirus pandemic? Was that mentioned at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u181	No, it wasn't. However, the rules for obtaining a bike card are the same, they were written down earlier and we didn't touch that. This bill does not touch it, it is clearly stated that from 10 to 18 years of age you need a bike card to use this type of equipment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u182	Thank you very much. No further questions... Oh, as usual, I don't see your senator from here. You're welcome, Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u183	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. Namely in the added amendment is the concept of... This is Amendment 2, Article. 2aa paragraph. 1. It's about lighting the walkways for pedestrians and here's the concept of public roads on buildings. Is this the concept of road traffic law? I don't think that's the point. At least I didn't find that in traffic law, and that should be precise. Because when it comes to the area from the board to the board, it's a built-up area. It's so informative.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u184	Mr Senator, if you could ask the Minister this question, I would be very grateful. This amendment tabled was agreed with the Ministry by your President. And if I could ask, I would send directly to the Minister. [[Good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u185	Is that all of them? No further questions? No. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Hello again, Minister Rafał Weber.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I thank the senator for the precise definition of the changes that we propose in this law, the amendment of the law on road traffic. I, in addition, would like to highlight a few very important issues on which we have focused in a special way. The first is that we qualify electric scooters, but also other personal transport devices, as vehicles. At the moment, their status is not regulated, which is why Here I answer the question about statistics right away. The police do not carry out statistics on these devices, as the person who uses these devices is considered to be a pedestrian. So that all the events, all the road accidents that so far have occurred involving people moving on electric scooters or other personal transport devices, were included in the catalogue of events involving pedestrians. Since the entry into force of these provisions, electric scooter or other personal transport equipment will be treated as vehicles and then there will be a completely different eligibility of this type of event. The courts will also have no doubt that someone who was riding a scooter was using a vehicle to move and was not a pedestrian, as it has been for the past months. This is a fundamental issue because the vehicle user has certain obligations, of course there are rights, but also certain prohibitions. In this law they are very precise. The most important thing is... From my observations made especially here in Warsaw, a summer time when it was warm It appears that many people used these devices, electric scooters, under the influence of alcohol. It was visible at first glance. First of all, they were tourists who treated it as a fun, not necessarily an element of communication, a means of transport. This will be prohibited as from the entry into force of these provisions. So we don't let you drive after alcohol. We also do not allow two people to ride on one scooter, nor do we allow another vehicle to be dragged when using an electric scooter or another personal transport device, and these were the most often diagnosed by us situations that occurred in the past three years. With regard to the selection of the infrastructure that we allow, first of all And it's perfectly natural to allow whether we point out that an electric scooter or another personal transport device is used for cycling or cycling. If this is not the case, then the roadway, but subject to the speed limit, i.e. the maximum speed permitted on this section of the road 30 km/h, and if there is no cycle path or if the maximum speed is higher, then the pavement, but provided that 4 elements are met: firstly, driving at a speed close to pedestrian speed, secondly, giving way to pedestrian priority, thirdly, taking special care, fourthly, not hindering pedestrian traffic. So that all these 4 factors, all these 4 elements must be met together so that the user of the electric scooter can move not only legally, but also safely on the sidewalk, i.e. so that he can ensure this safety for himself, but above all for the safety of pedestrians. Because the overarching aim of the Ministry of Infrastructure has set itself before it is to create such regulations as to allow electric scooters to ride on the sidewalk, but precisely subject to the full protection of pedestrians, to allow pedestrians to enjoy safe, unfettered, unlimited use of pavement infrastructure. And in our view, this objective has been met in these provisions. The next question is the question of age. Why 10 years, not e.g. 12 or 14? Such proposals were made, but they were not from expert backgrounds, but from political backgrounds. I think one of the amendments in the Sejm talked about allowing the use of electric scooters to people since they were 12. However, we are in the position that a child, who is ten years old, has acquired a bicycle card, i.e. passed a course, training, whether at school or at a road centre, and has acquired some theoretical and practical skills regarding cycling, may also benefit from this means of transport. We don't see any contraindications here. Someone who is aware of safe movement, with proper behaviour on the road, can also use an electric scooter or a personal device. And let me remind you that, due to the lack of regulation, there are no such regulations, which at the moment theoretically even a six-year-old can use an electric scooter on the sidewalk, is treated as a pedestrian and no one can stop him from doing so. Of course, he can do so in the care of his parents. So that these are the fundamental issues that we had in the drafting of this law, this was a goal. The bill was consulted twice. The project was proposed by the Ministry of Infrastructure in June 2019. The first consultation brought a great deal of new proposals, comments and opinions, which were examined very strongly by the Ministry of Infrastructure. We thought that some elements were really worth including in the project, it was worth reorganizing. We did it and this bill was consulted for the second time. And then there were also many environments who expressed their opinion. I will admit that in the previous year, we did not run with this law on purpose, seeing that the pandemic situation was not conducive to the use of electric scooters. Some operators even withdrew during that summer season from making these scooters available in large cities. Well, the traffic was much smaller than in 2019. But we think that the situation in 2021 will be similar to that in 2019, so we want these rules to come into force with the new season. If, at this meeting, the High House adopts this law and it goes to the Sejm later, I think that the Sejm will deal with it on 30 March and the Act will enter into force 30 days after the publication in the Official Journal, which means that in the second half of May. And from then on, these new, necessary, expected rules will be in place, as you have already pointed out. Finally, I would like to assure you that we are not closing ourselves to other proposals. We will observe how this law works, we will observe what its effects are, whether it is fulfilling its role, whether it requires adjustments, changes and going with the spirit of time, with the spirit of modern technologies, which are everywhere, also when it comes to such individual communication. And if necessary, we are, of course, open to revision of these provisions. In addition, Western countries, in which these scooters were earlier and which had previously taken up this subject, also used this practice. First the first legislation, then the first amendment, if necessary, is the second amendment to go with the spirit of time and keep up with what is new on the market also in the road space. I thank the Committee on Infrastructure for its substantive discussion, thank you for the proposals, for the amendments. With regard to the amendment related to the lighting of pedestrian crossings, and with this deadline, which was used in this amendment, i.e. the term related to the area of construction, I will say that this term is not included in the Law on Road Traffic, but is contained in the Public Roads Act, and this article amends the Law on Public Roads. So it is the same term, similar to that which currently exists in the Polish legal order. Once again, thank you very much for your work in the committee, and of course, I would like to count on the second part of the substantive discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u187	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Alexander Swed. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u188	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister! This is a very important and very positive amendment. I have one specific question. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 point 4 of the Act provides that the maximum permissible speed of movement of devices such as electric skateboards or scooters is 20 km/h. Are you planning on... How will this be measured? How will this be checked? How will the servants be able to control it? In general, these vehicles are moving on the sidewalks. Will there be any measuring tools, any radars that will be placed by the sidewalks? Are there plans to use any measuring devices in this area?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u189	We are wondering whether this matter will be resolved in a regulation that will be included in the bill. This regulation will specify parameters, among others. dimensions, but also other technical elements, scooter. We are wondering if there is a technical and maximum speed limit, which is set in a technical way at 20 km. Let's see if we can do that. As I said in my first speech, if everything was okay, I also said it at the committee meeting. If on Polish roads we do not deal with events involving people who use scooters... We are open to an amendment if necessary if there is a will to increase this speed. We wouldn't want to technically limit it so that in the next step we could raise it five kilometers. We're wondering how to do it. As a rule on the market, especially on the market of scooters rented in large cities, those that are present on the roads, on the streets, on the sidewalks that can be rented through the app... Maximum speed of these scooters It's a little over 20 km/h. It's not that they develop much higher speeds, it's just those oscillating within a range of 23.24 km/h. Originally in our project, this speed was set at 25 km/h, but as part of the compromise, after having heard many opinions about the fact that riders should wear helmets, we decided to lower the speed to 20 km/h, but not impose an obligation to wear a helmet and thus not limit the possibility of using electric scooters that are available on the streets of many cities in our country. As part of the compromise, this speed has been reduced. I don't lock myself in here. If everything is okay, if these rules are played, if scooters are applied to them, we will be open to update them in the future and increase the maximum permissible speed of scooters and other personal transport devices.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u190	Thank you, Minister. Senator Tyszkiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Tell me how the speed of scooters will be measured. Are there gonna be cameras? Is there another way to measure the speed to possibly punish the guilty of speeding? How will the speed of scooters be tested? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u192	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u193	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think I answered that question in part just now. Of course, the police will not stand with a manual speed gauge and will not measure the speed at which people travel on scooters. As I say, practice shows that the vast majority of these devices have a technically determined speed. It's a little over 20 km/h. Of course, there are those that have a higher speed. In order to manage the situation that took place during the summer in large cities, we had to propose a solution, and I just said a few moments ago. I don't think this solution is acceptable to scooters users. Besides, operators who, whatever they say, make money on this have not had much attention to do with it, have not contested the setting of the speed limit. Right on this level. I think so, ladies and gentlemen. I'm going back to pragmatism and practice. That the person who will use the scooter and will meet, especially on the sidewalk, all 4 conditions associated with safe driving, i.e. not only the condition of speed close to pedestrian speed, but also the retreating of pedestrians, special caution and not hindering pedestrian traffic, will move legally and it will not be threatened. So that the practice and pragmatism of life point to this.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u194	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u195	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have one more question, and in fact I would like to return to the question that I have asked before. The youngest users of electric vehicles, I consider 10 years of age to be as useful as possible, will have to have a bike card. I'd like to go back to that last question. What will be the procedure for taking the bike card exam during the current Coronavirus pandemic? Granted, the rapporteur has already said that this amendment does not apply, but I would like to ask whether, in connection with the pandemic earlier, any changes in this examination have been made. Did the Ministry, through the regulation, change anything about it?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u196	No, we didn't touch that. I think that the director of any institution that conducts a course, or later a bike card exam, decides these issues. Voivodeship traffic centres operate in a relatively normal way, of course schools with certain limitations. However, such a decision is made by whether the Director of WORD or the Director of the school, in which you can take a course for a bike card and then pass exams.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u197	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Gromek a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u198	Minister, there is such knowledge that a vehicle that is driven by its own muscles can move on bike paths. But like I said, in Kołobrzeg the problem has existed for many, many years. There is talk of these light electric vehicles, but once again I am talking about the ability of go-karts to weigh 40 and 50 kg, to develop very high speed and to drive them very many children, who can sometimes not control them, and many fractures have occurred either in large injuries. Will it still be maintained that on bike paths will be able to move a vehicle powered by the force of its own muscles? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u199	When it comes to motion aids, because this is how we define skateboards or scooters driven by muscle force, roller skates or roller skates, then yes, you will be able to move these devices on the sidewalk and on the bike path. It will be a matter of user decision. As far as go-karts are concerned, as far as I know, they are not allowed to be used on public roads. These vehicles, let's say, can be used on tracks, especially on racing tracks, but not in places that are public roads. So that under the law such devices, such vehicles on public roads should not be.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u200	Thank you very much. There are no further questions. Thank you very much... [[Senator.]] Oh, as usual. Senator Czerwinski again... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Not as usual.]] As usual, I don't see you, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u201	Oh, as usual, you don't notice me. Yeah, yeah. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, what is the relation between the name and the concept of electric scooter? I ask this in particular in terms of the fact that they meet, let's assume, they can meet. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 15a is described how a person should behave by using a motion aid device, but there is nothing about a scooter. Because if there's one in the other, then yes. But I don't think so, because a muscle-powered motor...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u202	It's somewhere else. The behaviour of the person who uses the scooter is specified in this act elsewhere. [[Where, if you don't mind...]] Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, [[I've got it, Minister, I've got it.]] [[I understand that...]] [[Yeah, yeah, because they're not even... these 2 devices are treated separately, otherwise.]] Separately, yes. [[Yeah, yeah, a scooter or something, or a motion-enhancing device.]] Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u203	There are no further questions. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u204	Thank you very much. One more thing, Mr. Marshal. Thank you to all those who have prepared this difficult project on such a difficult matter at the Ministry of Infrastructure. I'm here with the officials, the principals and the wardens. Thank you very much for working on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u205	Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senators Świlski, Gromko, Szwedz, Błecherz, Gorgon-Komor, Godyla, Gromek and Jazłowiecka have made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senators Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka, Artur Dunin and Jacek Bury. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? No. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Infrastructure Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the National census of population and housing in 2021. The text of the Act is contained in print No 339 and the report of the Commission In print No 339 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Andrzej Pajak, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u206	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on the meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, which took place on 4 March this year. At the meeting, the Act on the amendment of the Act on the National Census of Population and Housing in 2021 was examined. This law was adopted by the Sejm on 25 February 2021. The draft law was introduced by the Government. Some amendments were made during the work in the Sejm, but only of a more precise and technical and legislative nature. As for the substance of this law, there were no reservations. It was adopted by a majority: 312 votes in favour, 11 against, 129 abstentions. This Act aims to amend certain amendments to the Act of 9 August 2019 on the National Population and Housing Census in 2021. These changes aim primarily at extending the duration of the national census of the general population and housing in 2021, hereinafter referred to as the census, by 3 months. The census will run from 1 April 2021 to 30 September 2021 and not, as originally planned, until 30 June 2021. The second change is the shift in the period during which the follow-up and follow-up tests will be carried out. Those studies shall start on 1 October 2021 and shall be carried out until 31 December 2021. In addition, the Act contains provisions which harmonise the rates of remuneration or the census add-on for census rankings, clearly define the rules for determining remuneration or the census add-on for census rankings for conducting an interview, specify the resignation of additional functions of census counters who are employees of public statistics units and adapt the rules on free distribution, transmission of information by Polish Television and by Polish Radio. These are the main changes that concern the census of the general population and housing in 2021. As far as the discussion in committee is concerned, this law did not raise any objections. The legislator only paid attention to the time limits for the procedure of this law. Because we're going to the Senate now, and the committee has tabled one amendment, so if she's going back to the Sejm... If the Sejm were to meet on the 30th of this month and it is recorded that the Act enters into force on 1 April 2021, the President would not be required to do so constitutionally for 21 days, which is guaranteed to work on and sign it and followed by its announcement. That is why I will make the amendments that will complete this missing issue. As far as the committee meeting is concerned, one amendment has been tabled, quite significant, namely it has been deleted... This amendment includes the deletion of point (a) above. and in Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013, the following paragraph is added: Point 1 (9). This is the topic that, which is a little sad, went through when there was an agricultural census. There were all the regulations concerning the payment to the heads of municipalities of some kind, in all small amounts, and the money was transferred, there were regulations, the appropriate rules to admit it, and at the last moment the money was withdrawn. It got a little agitated, so to speak, self-governments, because even according to this old folk saying that who gives and receives, he gets in hell, a little bit like that... First it was passed on, the data, and then suddenly, at the last minute, it was taken away. And because of what was before, the committee has decided this point, this provision that we can discretionaryly admit it, delete it, so that it is not discretionary. And that was the only amendment that was accepted by the committee. There were no objections here. This was unanimously adopted, even with the approval of the factors representing the government in the matter of this law. And this amendment is written down. But I will also allow myself to make 3 amendments here, which are agreed with the President of the Central Statistical Office and which are about to solve this problem. They're not holding back the whole process of preparing for the census, but they're giving the president this opportunity that he might be 21 days old. This will be included in these amendments. And on the other hand, if the president signs the bill the next day, that's his case. But from this constitutional record for 21 days, it's not gonna be, so to speak, cut off, it's just gonna be written down. And that's why I'm making these three amendments that are prepared and accepted, discussed as amendments to our committee. As I mentioned, the bill was adopted without reservation, unanimously. I ask the High Senate to adopt this bill with the proposed amendment. And I am proposing these 3 additional amendments, also on behalf of the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u207	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Marek Plura. [[Mr. Marshal, I would like to ask a question to the representative of the Central Statistical Office if he accompanies us in the proceedings.]] Okay, of course, Mr. Senator, I'll report you to the next tour. You're asking Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u208	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question: did the committee's meeting mention such a question as to which cases the census accountant is not entitled to an allowance and can he appeal against it?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u209	When he's not entitled... The kind of specific question you're asking wasn't and here I'd possibly ask you to redirect this question to the president of the Central Statistical Office.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u210	Thank you very much. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u211	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Were there any estimates of the costs that need to be secured in the budget to carry out this census? It's about total costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u212	That is the question, as I recall, which was probably not the case at the committee meeting, but the president will be here in a moment, and I think it will be possible to repeat this question by your senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u213	Thank you very much. I don't see any requests for questions. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The President of the Council of Ministers has been authorised to represent the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Is there a representative of the government here, Mr Dominik Rozkrut, President of the Central Statistical Office, wishing to speak? Yeah, I can see that. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u214	(PL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Senators! There have been questions, so I'm just gonna let you answer them. With regard to the mandatoryity of the statutory allowances, the statutory allowances relate only to the case of the auditors who are our employees at the same time. Everyone else gets paid, as is apparent from the contract signed with us, and after the amendment of this law, at a uniform rate, regardless of the mode of conducting the interview, whether it be telephone mode or direct mode, the rate is 6 PLN. So that here, as far as they're concerned, the case is mandatory. As far as the question is concerned, are the resources provided... Yes, we planned these measures well in advance and nothing has changed here. We have so far received all the measures planned and implement the inventory according to the schedule. At this point, if I could appeal to the High House... This census is our common issue over all divisions, and it really gives us valuable material to show us who we are as a society, but perhaps even more enabling different kinds of local communities to show how they live, where they live, who they are. Thanks to this, for the next 10 years we are actually shaping not only statistical surveys in the field of public statistics, but all strategies, development programs, we are conducting analyses, diagnoses, forecasts. This is the material we need, we need all of us. I strongly urge you to encourage everyone in your environments to participate in the inventory, especially in this online self-script. Yeah, I'm sorry, shorty. And I don't know if I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u215	Stay on the stand. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're the first Senator Brejza to report.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u216	Good morning. Minister! Mr. Marshal! I have a question for you. With great scepticism, I approach the possibility of organizing a census during a pandemic. The first question is, why are you just now... why is the government just now, as if he's woken up, initiating this bill? After all, as early as January, the Voivodeship commissioners for census were appointed and their municipalities were given the obligation to establish census committees. It looks like there's been a schedule suddenly, and it's like you haven't been analyzing it for a year, even though it's been a pandemic of coronavirus, and you suddenly realized that this deadline has to be postponed. Second thing. Why make a census during the pandemic? And is it true that Germany's census... I understand that this is also due to EU requirements, but is it true that the Germans translated their census into May 2022? The third question: isn't it better to devote all the power of the state, including very large resources, to saving health and jobs? Finally, last question: Minister, what substantive value will the data collected in the census in the pandemic, for example, have for you. groups of conditions causing difficulties in carrying out daily duties, professional plans or occupational situations, the type of activity of the workplace, in the greatest social crisis for decades? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u217	You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u218	I am immediately in a hurry to answer the four questions asked by your senator. Why now? It was already in January that commissioners were appointed. No, as early as April of the previous year, at the beginning of the pandemic we completed the first trial census, in the autumn of last year we carried out a general agricultural census of more than 1.5 million farms. And there was no news here. What we are now changing in the law is obviously due to the length of the legislative process. We started already in December and it was prepared based on the experience we gained in the general agricultural census. Following the experience of a fully completed census with success, whose first results will be presented next week, we have come to the conclusion that, in the event of a third wave of pandemic, we would like to prepare for it in a special way, i.e. Extend the time we have to make a census using phone interviews. In the most extreme, critical case, we are prepared to carry out a census solely on the basis of online self-written and telephone interviews. Here I must add, in order to reassure the senator, as regards the concerns we have heard, that we carry out the census with a very modern method, so-called. mixed method. In fact, we make the most of the administrative sources we source from other administrations, validate them, verify them, compile them, and as a kind of complement, we also consider the possibility of conducting direct interviews. They are extremely important to us, because these source registers are associated with various types of problems, methodological inconsistencies, which are quite important for statistics. Hence we must also obtain other sources, but this source in the form of direct interviews is not the only and is not the primary source in the implementation of the inventory. This is also indirectly the answer to the question about the case of Germany. Yes, of course, it is true that the Germans moved the census to the following year, but it is true in such a context that the German census is a traditional census, implemented as we did 20 years ago, based solely on paper solutions. And under these conditions, they really are not able to carry out this census. Most countries, the vast majority of the countries that we know about, keep the inventory at that date, at which we implement it more or less, because they use more modern methods. There, this German statistical system has a kind of special solutions, the land has a very large voice, where carrying out such statistical tasks is far more complicated than in other countries. Therefore, they also have reasons why they organize it in this way. But there is no need for us to translate this inventory in connection with the limitations we have, and the delay would cause a significant loss to the knowledge we have, which is essential to us in this particular pandemic situation, in which we want to correctly estimate and monitor the course of socio-economic patterns, diagnose and analyse them in effect for the benefit of our society, for our country. And this is extremely important, because we are immediately able to translate this information into concrete results, concrete added value that we can bring to public discourse and to everything that we are doing together. Therefore, the answer to the next question concerning the value of these data is this: it is huge. It is precisely at this point in time when we are going through a pandemic that precise knowledge about local communities, about demographic structure, about housing resources is the basic knowledge needed to take any informed action optimized for future effects. And it seems that having the possibilities that we have, preparing this inventory for a long time in a very modern way... Indeed, we are one of the leading countries, I will not hide it, and often invited to present my experiences and share my experience in the field of public statistics in general, and from the censuses in detail And we're happy to do that, because that's how we see our role in this system that we're creating together. I think that's it. So I tried to answer these four questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u219	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Plura a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u220	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, the current census will actually have the form of a self-written, i.e. an internet-based census, hence my 2 clarification questions to clarify. The first concerns the situation of national minorities, ethnic groups and languages in Poland. In the inventory survey we have the opportunity to declare a sense of self-identity, nationality. There's a question. A homogeneous or double nationality may be declared. We also have a list of those nationalities from which we choose the version for ourselves. That's my question. I am a citizen of the Polish Silesian nationality. Do you confirm that I can only declare such nationality, i.e. Silesian, first and only? And the related question is another, and it's the language used in everyday situations. I speak Silesian. Can I also declare this, in truth, by adding this language in a census survey, even though the government's recent proposals strongly contradict the existence of the Silesian language? There'll be a second question in a minute, but first I'd ask for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u221	I'm in a hurry to answer that. Indeed, this means of communication can be declared: as the main Silesian language. There is a list and you can declare the answer in this way. It is similar in the case of minorities. I mean, me. God forbid! I would not like to be drawn into the discussion about what is a nationality, what is an ethnic group, because it is not the role of statistics or public statistics to resolve this. Nevertheless, the senator, in accordance with the algorithm adopted in these questions, may indicate two groups which, in your personal opinion, best reflect your situation. I am here, of course, calling for the answers that you think are true, because we all want to have a good, real, true picture of the diversity of our society.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u222	Thank you, Mr. President. Unfortunately, I have to adjourn at this point and announce an hour's recess by 5:30 p.m. We'll go back to asking questions in an hour. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 28 to 17 minutes 30]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u223	I'm reopening the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. High Izbo, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by the following items: the second reading of the draft law on amending the Act on Employee Capital Plans and considering it as item 18 of the agenda; the second reading of the draft resolution on the 40th anniversary of March events in Bydgoszcz and consider it as item 19 of the agenda. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I believe that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I inform you that to the point concerning the draft resolution on the 40th anniversary of March events in Bydgoszcz we will join tomorrow, i.e. March 25th, 12:30. If legislative proposals are not tabled, the vote will take place immediately after consideration of this point. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the National census of population and housing in 2021. I would like to remind you that the committee's report and the position of the President of the Central Statistical Office, Mr Dominik Rozkrut, had been presented before the intermission. Is there any other senators who would like to ask the president a question? Senator Alexander Swed. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u224	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. President, before the break, I had a question for you, and I asked you about these additions for the census accountants, when they don't have them, and if you can appeal against them. Mr President answered me that this mainly applies to employees. But I'd like to ask you what it's like if this inventory is wrongly executed. Is that when these additions or allowances are taken away by census officers? What's the procedure? And can the accountants possibly appeal against such a decision if they believe that they have done their job properly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u225	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u226	Dear Senator, in such cases we sign the contract and in the content of this agreement is also the provision on proper performance of duties and census interviews. If we learn that someone does these tasks incorrectly, then we terminate the contract at such a time and, of course, further remuneration is no longer possible. And in the case of these accountants with additions, i.e. our internal employees, of course we are able to regulate this within the framework of the employment relationship.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u227	Thank you very much. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u228	Mr. President, I have a few brief questions. But at first I would like to point out that I and, I think, colleagues, appreciate the role of statistics in Poland, especially I am awarded a medal for the merits of Polish statistics, so I am not questioning all of this, God forbid. But what I'm saying is... If you'd answered my question about these Germans... Because you said they use archaic methods, which are old, traditional ones. Are they worse or better than Polish? It seems that Germany is a technologically developed country on an extraordinary scale. Why, then, do they use such archaic methods? And are they better than ours, or are ours better? Now there's a question about the inventory costs. I mean... well, I'm not hiding that in the case of the agricultural census, the controversy aroused very high prizes, all sorts of exclusive gadgets that were being purchased in connection with it. It was millions of zlotys. Therefore, my question is: what is the envisaged cost of carrying out the census, and is there any place to see the planned costs, or is there somewhere to find them? Like I said, the costs were huge, there were prizes, gadgets, and the local government didn't get the money. Therefore, I ask if there is any estimate of the cost of carrying out the inventory. Thank you very much. Greetings.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u229	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u230	Thank you so much for these questions. Mr. Senator, as far as Germany is concerned, our good colleagues from the statistical office could share their experiences. In their case... Yeah, our methods are better. We're doing a more modern inventory. I'm sorry, I have to say this. I hope this isn't overheard. There are some objective reasons why a country like Germany has some difficulty in implementing the inventory in a modern way like us. They're a federal country, a land country. Land participation in lawmaking is definitely stronger there than in a country such as Poland. There are a number of problems related to access to administrative sources. Due to the federal structure of the country, it is not easy to consult administrative registers. Land statistical offices remain quite independent from the national office. In the face of organizational and technical complications, they carry out a list of completely different methods, traditional ones, one that we last used 20 years ago. Ten years ago, we had a much more modern inventory, and the current one, I have to say this. It's really gonna be in the world. If anybody gets into all this, we're able to offer specific analyses and information. As regards the cost of the census, they are public and are included in the annex to the Act. They were all scored there. I will say that the assumption of the implementation of this inventory was not to exceed the nominal value of the cost of the implementation of the inventory 10 years ago. We keep the cost at the same level as 10 years ago. Of course, taking into account inflation, this is a much, much lower cost. As for the attention to the high prizes, let me say that we had a problem with something else. We decided not to pay the prizes under the prevailing conditions. There was some dissatisfaction from the municipal census commissioners, i.e. Vojts, presidents, mayors, however, in view of the situation we have, the difficult situation in the country, both epidemiologically and in terms of public finances, we have not paid such prizes. There were also some remarks about gadgets. It is known that it is always easy in public procurement to see such purchases. They were implemented, but all this had to do with a wide-ranging promotional campaign in the general agricultural census. A wide promotional campaign was also planned for the national census. We're organizing a series of... There were at least a dozen competitions that we did for students, for teachers, for municipalities. There was a contest for the most electronized municipality, i.e. one where there was the highest percentage of the autoscopy. We've equipped schoolrooms. Gadgets weren't bought thoughtlessly. This was all dedicated to promotion and communication activities planned for the implementation of these competitions. I would like to point out that, as part of the national census, we will also be running a lottery. For those who will take part in the online self-writer, we have predicted a series, it seems to us, very attractive prizes, including 16 cars. In each voivodship there is 1 car to win. This will, of course, be a lottery for those who take the trouble and do their job online. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u231	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Halin Poor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u232	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Director, I have this question about Senator Plura's questions. Is the definition we had in 2011 with the previous census of nationality the same at the moment? Is the method of marking the same as in 2011? It was easier then, and now it's harder. I'd like to ask if it is, and if it is, then why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u233	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u234	Thank you so much for that question, Senator. It's exactly the same. We have assumed that because some solutions have been agreed by consensus on different platforms, in particular in the Committee on the Environment. Minorities, they worked on the previous census... We didn't want to spoil anything here. Firstly, because of the possibility to maintain comparability of results from this and the previous census, and secondly because these solutions were commonly agreed and not controversial, we retained the exact same solutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u235	Thank you very much. Senator Jazłowicka. Please answer the question remotely. Senator Danuta Jazłowicka?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u236	Thank you very much. I couldn't get through. Your marshal wouldn't let me in. Thank you very much. Mr. President, I have a question... I mean, before I ask a question, maybe I'll say something first. It seems to me that even maintaining the cost of carrying out the census from 10 years ago in the event that this census will be carried out in an excellent majority via the Internet or by telephone calls means very high costs You have to admit it. But I have a question. How do you estimate the value of the statistics that will be collected during the pandemic when reality changes so much in our country? What will they be worth for the next 10 years? Because they're really not gonna be changed for ten years. Do you really think that this inventory is necessary at the moment? Wouldn't it be better to wait until after the pandemic to carry out this inventory so that these data actually have as much actuality as possible over the next 10 years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u237	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u238	Thank you so much for these questions. The first thing I have to answer is the way I can. We have one of the cheapest censuses in the world. And that's what I'm particularly proud of, as well as the fact that we've managed to keep these costs in check. The fact that we implement it through Internet self-written, through telephone interviews, but we also retain the possibility of direct visits, and above all we have this powerful IT camera, which is necessary for the integration of collections of information from various sources of public administration information, is also one of such qualities, which we will probably have a chance to share in the international environment for the next 10 years. Really these comparisons are available, we can prepare such material and here we have nothing to hide. As far as the second part is concerned, how I evaluate the value of the data that will be for the next 10 years... It's like this. In this situation today, we could consider what is happening in such dimensions as. work, the labour market, employment. We know that a lot of people are losing, and may lose their jobs as a result of a pandemic. And now I'm going to answer the question with a question, a little provocative maybe, but with the best intention: do we want to know about the fact that someone lost their job today or next year? I think it's today. And that doesn't affect the quality of the data. Because here's the point: believe me that the quality of the data we are able to keep at a similar level both today and next year, but that we know it already today. and note, that is at very deep levels of territorial disaggregation, i.e. We know what it looks like in local environments, in towns, in neighborhoods. It's a value. I don't think it's overrated. And it seems to us that at this particular moment, it will add even more materials that will enable us to be able as a society. This is going beyond the competence of statistics. It's better to shape your future. This will happen thanks to this material, precisely because it arises at such a sensitive moment for us and describes in such detail what is happening. Without this inventory, we would not be able to provide such detailed information about the pandemic that we are going to give.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u239	Thank you very much. Senator Hibner. [[Hello! Hello!]] There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u240	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. President, first of all, I want to know why the census hasn't been moved to another date, until after the pandemic. What will the census look like? people who are in quarantine and don't have a phone or Internet access? And what's important is the situation where... I would like to know how you will secure sensitive data and other data about people's assets that will be provided online. We know, for example. about the use of hacking methods of access to data in the case of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office in Cracow, and we know what it ended with. What will it look like to get e.g. the kind of data you're gonna need, and someone's not gonna have a computer or a phone call? Me, for example. On the phone, I wouldn't give anybody that sensitive, important information to me for security reasons. At the moment, the phone is absolutely not safe, we don't know who's listening to us. How do you want to secure all this? If an old lady who doesn't have a phone doesn't have an Internet, she's gonna come to a point to report what she's got, how's she gonna handle it, who's gonna handle it? What is the credibility of these people? I'm asking because you see everything in this kind of virtual world, and the real world looks a little different. That's why I'd like to know how you want to secure all of this. And people in quarantine who are in trouble at all, e.g. With the safety of everyday life? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u241	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u242	One at a time. Dear Senator, thank you very much for these questions. As for the first one, why do not we translate it, I think I have tried to argue this before, so I would not want to waste time here. Well, this is particularly important at this point, and we are fully convinced that we can do this for the benefit of all of us. It's a long story short, so I don't repeat myself. As regards security, how we will secure data sets, e.g. information on assets provided online. Yeah, well, the asset information, luckily, we won't have to secure at all, because we don't collect that kind of data. As regards these safeguards that we apply, I would like to remind you that the Central Statistical Office is the oldest public institution in Poland, it was created several months before independence. The foundation of its operation was always so-called. statistical secrecy, which has the highest value among all the secrets existing in the legal system. It's never been broken, we've never had a case like this to happen in statistics, and I want to assure you that we're trying to make every effort to keep it that way. I think we're doing it well. Besides, one of the basic mechanisms for protecting these data is that they are immediately anonymous just so that there are no temptations. We, as statisticsmen, apply a measure to how processes form in aggregate form, we do not care whether it is physically Jan Kowalski or someone else. Well, such a simplest mechanism, though brutal, guarantees that data remains confidential for hundreds of years. As for this indication of the lack of preference to participate in the inventory on the phone, I would like to say that it is not, of course, that we will call. If you have any doubts, you can call the helpline and ask them to write it down. Then it's 100% sure that there's a proper sworn census accountant on the other side. You may also ask to set up a visit to a local, municipal office where such posts will be made available for the implementation of the inventory. There will also be people chosen from among the ranking officers who will provide all the necessary assistance. I will say more, going beyond the scope of the question, we are in the process of very intensive cooperation with various associations, associations of people with disabilities, deaf and blind, in order to ensure individual treatment in these particular cases by using the contacts of these organisations. The idea is to reach those particularly in need who are excluded because of various types of disability. I'm happy for you. I'll add, we've tried that list. It is also not a question of getting as much information as possible about people with disabilities. This is an important thing that differentiates it from the previous census, because then we had it included only in a long interview that was on too low a trial, now these questions are addressed to everyone. We're here to provide this material for these special groups that we've never had before. So that this is our ambition and I want to assure you that we are doing everything we can, and we are really open to different voices. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Thank you very much...]] [[Excuse me, sir. What about those in quarantine?]] People in quarantine, of course, have limited contact with anyone. Well, we can ask them to call the hotline, and we'll try to call them. If they do not wish to do so by telephone, they may come to the statistical office in the municipality and make such an inventory, of course after the quarantine is completed. That's why we're extending the census a little bit, given that... well, these circumstances cause the need to increase this time window that is necessary to carry out the inventory.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u243	Thank you very much. Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u244	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. President, I'd like to ask you a few more questions. Well, maybe right now, with this inventory, it's less important than it was before, but is this amendment of the bill taking into account this situation... It's about an accident when there's a shortage of personnel when it comes to census records. I know that we have the ability to write this interview electronically, to write it over the phone, but sometimes, for example. in the case of excluded persons, as the President said here, or disabled persons, it will have to be done on the spot. So, what if no one in the area wants to take up the task of being a census accountant in a pandemic? Are such situations included? Does the bill regulate it somehow? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u245	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u246	Thank you so much for that question. We, too, were to a certain extent concerned about this, but the agricultural census has proved that we have successfully gained the necessary number of reckoners. The same is true now in the census, in all the municipalities, we have secured full cast and we have a large group of ranking officers for replacements, such as those waiting. These solutions, which we introduced before the agricultural census, were also coming with some changes to the census laws, made it more flexible for us to organize this inventory so that, if we were to do so, we could also, if there was a local need, ask for the help of the ranking officers from neighbouring areas. They can now legally carry out their duties also in another municipality. So this is where we secured ourselves.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u247	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u248	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! I have a question. Actually, it's three, but it's about the same problem. Well, it's about sensitive issues. Let's not hide it, i.e. questions about nationality and language, about native language or home language. Because these questions are important not only for information, but also for data to be processed, aggregated, but also for constitutional purposes. This is the result of the Act on National and Ethnic Minorities and the possibility of using a minority language as an auxiliary language and a double designation of topographical names, mostly towns. In the first list It was 2002, I don't remember exactly. Some municipalities have been given the opportunity to do so. They were mainly Belarusian and German municipalities and probably one Lithuanian one. I live in Opole and... So some of these municipalities took advantage of this possibility. And the rule is simple: 20% the proportion of the minority concerned as regards the inhabitants of the municipality, and such double nomenclature may be used. And then there was the 2011 census and these results changed. The natural order of things, for example. Biology does it, migrations. This led to a decrease in the number of these municipalities; some of the municipalities which had such a right lost them, i.e. minority participation came down in them e.g. from 21% to 19%, 18%. And then, in quotes, to defend ourselves against privileges, because that's how minorities treat it... Well, they just questioned the results of the census, said that they were not representative, not complete, etc. I remember exactly this action, which was probably in 2012 and the following years after the results of the census, as these results have shown. Mr. President, are you able to provide here? Not me before the census just... It's about not reacting to something, it's about ensuring that the results in this segment are: The whole, of course reliable, and c-full in the sense that anyone who wants to give birth, the nationality he will want, will give. And then there's the next line. The Polish state recognizes nationalities... It considers as national minorities to be clear because it recognizes all nationalities, but as national minorities it recognizes those which are included in the law I was talking about. The question is: if someone gave a Silesian nationality, perhaps that was already the question. Is he gonna have a right? Will the directory be closed or semi-open, which means will be mentioned nationalities, but will it be possible to add any other? And then how will that be interpreted in the results? The point is that there is a specific state policy It is, as it were, incorporated in the Act. And here are some facts... I don't know if I've made myself clear what this conglomerate is all about. I'm not talking about language anymore, because deciding whether it's a language or a dialect or a chatter is another matter. According to what I read, there are no Silesian language as such, there are different dialects, there are different Silesian dialects, depending on the area we are talking about. So, to recap: these issues, sensitive, constitutional, those that will have an impact on politics... They, well, unfortunately, also have a lot of emotions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u249	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u250	Thank you very much. About... Maybe I'll start answering from the end. Am I able to guarantee that the data will be reliable, reliable and that anyone who wishes to characterize his/her national/ethical affiliation or his/her language, his/her language, his/her chatter, will be able to do so? Yeah, he'll have the opportunity. And that's what we guarantee with this census. That is what I would like to guarantee you here openly. Of course, how reliable and reliable this data will later depend on us as a society, on us to understand that the census is precisely the tool that allows us to tell who we are. And this year we have a special opportunity. Because in the past, such issues have often been raised, that often people have concerns about saying certain things... or, well, sort of speaking in a specific way. This web samoscript really introduces a certain atmosphere of intimacy here. This can be done in a very, so to speak, comfortable conditions, without exposing yourself to the need to interact with the illiterate, which can cause such concerns. So I think we have a special one in this list. favourable, favourable conditions to obtain such truly reliable and reliable data. Nevertheless, I call on all of us in our environments to explain that this is an undertaking that serves all, beyond divisions, and how important it is just that we are able to see the smallest communities that shape their lives in different areas. And that's what it's all about, so that we know all about each other. As for the specific question, is this questionnaire... Like I said on the previous... There is really an option to type in if someone wants to choose any other one than from this list that appears at the beginning... For technical reasons it is not possible to show the whole list of etnonims, because it goes into hundreds, but they are written in the dictionary. If anyone wants to choose the right one, he'll show him how to sign in. And if there's no answer in the dictionary Although I find it difficult to imagine such a situation, knowing how extensive it is. It will be possible to enter any other and the system will also accept it. The same is true of the tongue. The same is true of this question, and the corresponding passwords are also included in these dictionaries. Well, it all depends on whether society wants to benefit from it. Let us remember that these questions are sensitive and voluntary. So if someone thinks they don't want to answer, As for the question of confession, Well, that may not answer either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u251	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much again, Mr. President. [[President of the Central Statistical Office Dominik Rozkrut: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. I inform at the same time, for the sake of order, that the senators Alexander Szwed, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Jolanta Hibner, Danuta Jazłowiecka, Mieczysław Golba and Janusz Pęcherz made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. And I would also like to inform you that Senator Andrzej Spider has submitted a legislative proposal in writing. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the legislative proposal submitted? No. Thank you. As a legislative proposal has been made, I ask the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposal presented and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Mr. President. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Law on amending the Law on Education and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 341 and the report of the Commission In print No 341 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u252	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Committee on Education, Science and Sport, a report on the Law amending the Law If the senators allow, I will present the purpose and subject of the bill. First of all, this law aims to introduce a system for monitoring the careers of public graduates and non-public secondary schools. This monitoring is to be carried out to collect information on the careers of graduates of these schools. They will be collected for education policy at national, regional and, of course, local level. This is intended to enable the orientations and content of education to be adapted to the requirements of the labour market and to better prepare pupils for the occupation and further training. Monitoring is to be carried out annually and includes an analysis of the educational and professional situation of graduates in 3 stages: after one year, after two years and after five years after their graduation from secondary school. According to the provisions of this Act, monitoring will be carried out on the basis of data collected in the Educational Information System and the Integrated Information System about Higher Education and Science POL-on. It will also use data collected by the District Examination Boards as well as by the Social Insurance Institution. I'm talking about monitoring insured accounts or premium payer accounts. This monitoring will be carried out by the Minister responsible for Education and Education, and according to the regulations the Minister will be able to entrust this task to an organisational unit subordinate to him. The Institute of Educational Research in Warsaw will be responsible for analysing and developing the results of monitoring the careers of graduates. The results of this monitoring will be made available by the Minister responsible for Education and Education in an aggregated form on the relevant website of the Public Information Bulletin. Just a few more information. The monitoring of graduates' careers in 2021 and 2029 will also include graduates of public and private upper secondary schools who graduated from school in the school years 2018/2019 and 2023/2024. As a consequence of the introduction of a system for monitoring the careers of secondary school graduates, it is also necessary to amend the relevant laws, including the Social Security Act on the possibility of obtaining information to assess the situation of graduates on the labour market, as well as the Act on the Educational Information System to supplement the data collection catalogue in the education information system for conducting the monitoring of graduates' careers and to allow for obtaining specific data from the database of the educational information system by the Minister responsible for Education and Education, as well as the Law on Higher Education and Science in the Law on the possibility of obtaining information from the Integrated Information System on Higher Education and Science POL-on on continuing to study by graduates of technicians, industry-related secondary schools, general schools and university schools. The provisions on the monitoring of graduates' careers are to enter into force on the day following the date of publication. Ladies and gentlemen, at the meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, two questions were addressed to the Minister, which were, as if to clarify the provisions of the Act. There was no doubt that... well, there were doubts, but the Minister answered those questions. At the committee meeting, we unanimously decided that the committee was asking the Senate to adopt this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u253	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u254	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator, I have a question. Has the committee mentioned whether an increase in staff is envisaged in connection with the implementation of this amendment? Were any estimates given at the committee meeting, or was this even mentioned?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u255	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u256	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, thank you for that question. During the committee meeting, such questions were not raised. There was no doubt, but I think that if you address this question to the Minister, the Minister will have an opportunity to talk about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u257	Thank you very much. [[Rapporteur Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: Thank you very much.]] Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u258	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Just a quick question. These data will be published, but, of course, in aggregate form... [[Rapporteur Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: Yes, anonymous.]] What if the school wanted to know, just for their own sakes, what happened to their graduates? I'm sure there'll be a school number or an address, etc. Can he, I don't know, go to the minister's office for that kind of information? 'Cause, you know, like... She would want to change her education profile because she thought that all the graduates would go to agriculture, and they went, I don't know, for example. For computer science.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u259	Thank you very much, Senator. Since we did not answer such questions at the committee meeting, there was no such information from the Minister, I will also ask the Minister to answer that question, if you don't mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u260	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the senator? Thank you, then. [[Rapporteur Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Education and Science has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Welcome to the House of Minister Thomas of Rome. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u261	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the government's position on the draft... already at this moment a law passed after the third reading by the Sejm, currently under investigation in the Senate. The revised Law on the amendment of the Law and of certain other laws is another action planned in the framework of the vocational training reform implemented since September 2019. These changes bring vocational education closer to the labour market. The employer becomes a school partner. We have now prepared another mechanism that will allow for an even more accurate adjustment of education to the needs of the labour market. The draft law is a response to the lack of adequate, detailed and reliable information on the fate of secondary school graduates observed for years. The aim of the proposed changes is to provide feedback on the careers of secondary school graduates. This information will be used for educational policy at national, regional and local level. And so I answer the senator's question, but I can make it more specific if that question comes up later: there will be information in specific educational institutions about the fate of graduates in particular schools. To this end, the Act sets out new public tasks for the Minister responsible for Education and Education, i.e. monitoring the careers of graduates of all types of secondary schools, i.e. First and second degree professional schools, technicians, police schools, general education schools, special admission schools. The rules introduced refer to similar solutions adopted in the higher education system, but are adapted to the specifics of educational data. Graduate monitoring will be carried out every year. The research group will be all secondary school graduates who have completed their studies: one year, two years and five years before the year of monitoring. Monitoring will be carried out on the basis of data from 4 main sources: from the educational information system, from the information system on science and higher education, from the databases of district examination committees, from the social security system. These sources will provide information on the following: the profession in which the graduate was educated; participation in courses conducted under the education system; study at the next secondary school; study in a specific direction; entry to the examination or vocational examination; obtaining a certificate of maturity, certificates and diplomas; employment and earnings. These data will also assess the situation of school graduates in the labour market With information on the frequency of job changes and the period from school leaving to starting work. The proposed solutions guarantee a high level of protection of graduate personal data. After the combination of data from 4 sources, they will be anonymized immediately. Further monitoring will be carried out only on the basis of non-anonymised data. This solution ensures data security and limits the work on personal data to the minimum necessary. The Ministry of Education and Science will provide non-notified data to the Educational Research Institute by 1 October each year to develop monitoring results. The results of the monitoring will be prepared by the Educational Research Institute annually until 30 November and then published in the Public Information Bulletin of the Ministry of Education and Science. With regard to the anticipated effects of the proposed changes, please, High Izbo, reliable and easily accessible knowledge of graduates' careers will build an image of industry education based on very reliable evidence and data. The education system will respond better to the needs of the labour market. Monitoring will allow for ongoing response to changing socio-economic circumstances. Monitoring will also provide reliable information on the conditions of employment and wages of graduates in particular professions, sectors and regions, allowing students to make more relevant educational and professional decisions. I would very much like to thank the senators of the committee responsible for their very efficient work. And I'm looking forward to any questions. Mrs. Marshal, I'm at your disposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u262	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I'm sure you're Senator Alexander Swed. There you go. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u263	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I would like to repeat the question that I have asked the rapporteur: is there an increase in staff due to the implementation of this law? Somehow I didn't get it in the report, so I'm gonna ask for more detail...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u264	Thank you. You're welcome to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u265	The answer is very simple and obvious. No, no increase in employment is expected. I can, if your marshal, the High House will allow, even extend this question: are any costs of this regulation foreseen at all? The answer is also negative, i.e. the system is already so designed that we do not need to generate costs. Costs were incurred earlier during the construction of the entire IT system. So it can be said that in this respect We are waiting only for the implementation and decision of the High House to complete the legislative process.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u266	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u267	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Again with the question. I mean how the results will be made available, except for those that will be published in the Public Information Bulletin, because there can probably be aggregated data about the voivodship, maybe about the county, from a given yearbook of course. Well, a simple example: the employer wants to see where about the most people were educated in computer science, which is where, as you can guess, they will return to the IT family, unless they stay in big cities, because that's what usually happens. He must have it about the aggregate district, about a large municipality. And even more interesting will be the data on schools. It's just that he's bothering me because he's so out of focus, he's writing in the article. One in the last change... It's probably... Anyway, at the very end of the article, there's more or less such a record: there's no total results available for monitoring graduates' careers involving less than 10 people. I am able to imagine that in the case of more exotic professions and careers, these groups will be smaller than 10-persons, but for large schools, let's say three or four-trains... And I'm not talking about some private schools that want to know what's going on with their graduates, I don't know, schools run by churches or by individuals. Then this group of 10 people is a barrier condition. Isn't she just gonna cause And the data is still anonymous. That we will not be able to share some of the information we need?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u268	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u269	I'm in a hurry to answer that. Dear Senator, the career monitoring reports will be automatically generated and sent to not only school heads, but also to the authorities running these schools, so this information will go there. In addition, it will be available in the Public Information Bulletin, it will be prepared in an appropriate way, also in terms of industry and territorial and even in terms of income. This system will be so extensive that it will be possible to generate information that interests the employer, the graduate, or the primary school student who decides what type of secondary school to go to, information about whether the income or the number of graduates who have found a job who have continued to study. There are really many questions, and many of them, if not all, will provide a reliable answer. To illustrate, this is a system similar to the ELA system, which already exists in the case of higher education. So, in part, by supplementing the Senator's first question, I'm going to say that also because this system already existed, we have the opportunity to extend it by analogy. I hope I've answered the questions thoroughly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u270	Thank you very much. Senator Halina Poor's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u271	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I have a question about deadlines. Because there is a provision in point 10 that the OKE must provide the minister with a great deal of data by 1 June. And we know that May and June... There is this period until 1 April, then until 30 April, then these data are supplemented. And for the district examination boards May and June this is such a very difficult time due to various kinds of exams. And isn't that gonna cause the need for the additional employment that Senator Swed was talking about, or is it gonna upset the other OKE responsibilities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u272	No, we do not expect this kind of complication to occur, the more that the data will generate automatically. This is complementary to the answer to the first question concerning the costs of the whole project and the increase in employment. This information will come from the system automatically.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u273	Thank you very much. Senator Ewa Matecka's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u274	Thank you very much, Marshal. Dear Minister, the bill presented to us is indeed... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: This is the bill.]] Okay. The presented project actually... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: According to the Constitution after the third reading of the project.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Ladies and gentlemen, please do not interfere with the senator's question.]] ...is a tool expected and certainly helpful in diagnosing the education system. However, there is concern about the number and nature of certain data that are planned to be collected. Please tell us what relevant information is to be provided by a secondary school graduate for career monitoring, which will be provided by the Social Insurance Institution. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 paragraph 16 are listed types of information, they are given 9. I will mention only a few of them: the year and month of death of the graduate, the insurance title code, the benefit code, the PKD code, the year and month of the payer's registration, the basis for the assessment of the insurance premiums and information about exceeding 30 times the expected average salary. Are these really data to help monitor the career of a secondary school graduate? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u275	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u276	These are really extremely necessary data, such as pay, status issues, showing whether someone is currently an unemployed person or employed in some capacity, whether he is pursuing an individual economic activity, or if he is an employed person under an employment contract. I'll highlight what I've said before. The same is true in the system for monitoring the careers of higher education graduates. We're acting by analogy here.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u277	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u278	I understand that this is an analogy. But how? She's gonna be able to monitor the career of a secondary school graduate? What do we know about the date and place of death? What's the information on the insurance code gonna give us? What will we learn about the amount of the salary? Here I could possibly agree, because it's probably some important data, but it raises doubts about obtaining the remaining data from the ZUS.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u279	I'm sure the date of death is important. The point is not to keep monitoring a person's career, because it's already... [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u280	There you go. [[I'm afraid you're not convincing me, Minister.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: Sorry.]] Mr Senator Jan Maria Jackowski It's remote. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u281	Am I audible? [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stank: Yes, you are heard.]] Good. Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have two questions. My first question is this. When will the effects of this system, in the evaluation of the Ministry of Education and Higher Education, be noticeable? When will it be possible to analyse the education profile in the Polish system and see how it is adapted to market realities and social needs? Second question. You spoke in your speech about security. These are very sensitive data. Another entity accesses them. I am thinking here of an institution that will analyze, process and prepare reports in this area. What safeguards are planned here to ensure that this data is actually protected and that it does not occur, God forbid, a situation of uncontrolled flow of such data? I'm asking because these are extremely sensitive data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u282	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u283	Mr. Senator! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed solutions guarantee a very high level of protection of the personal data of graduates. In the second stage of processing, as soon as the data linking operations from individual sources have been completed, the PESEL number will be removed from the combined set and only non-notified data will be further processed in accordance with the proposed article. Article 26b (2) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 20 and 21, which will be used in the third stage to create a summary statistical table. In addition, in order to protect the privacy of the graduates examined, only those indicators which could be taken into account for the calculation of at least 10 persons will be presented in the reports. The same solution has been adopted in Article. Point (a) is replaced by the following: 11 the Law of 20 July 2018 on Higher Education and Science. In the case of the ELA system, it is sufficient to protect against the identification of the specific persons affected by the indicators presented. Only data indicated in the Act shall be processed in the framework of the monitoring to the extent that it is possible to carry out the public task indicated. The collection of unnecessary, excessive data and the use of data unrelated to the objective is definitely avoided. At the same time, the law allows for the shortest storage period of non-anonymised data. It is worth noting that an assessment of the impact on data protection within the meaning of Article has been prepared for the purposes of monitoring the careers of secondary school graduates. 35 Regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council 2016/679 of 27 April 2016 The Data Protection Impact Assessment was also positively consulted by the Personal Data Protection Office during the consultation process. As far as data are concerned, if regulation is introduced, we should have the data from the system for the first time this year.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u284	Thank you very much. No more questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Voice from the room: One more question...]] Senator Joanna Sekuła. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u285	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Would you be kind enough to tell us what population of graduates we're talking about?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u286	All of them. [[But what's the number?]] If you don't mind, I'm gonna allow myself to answer that question in writing as soon as I get back to the ministry.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u287	Thank you very much. I therefore inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide a written answer to the question asked by Senator Joanna Sekula. Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.]] I'm opening a discussion. Senator Joanna Sekula, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u288	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The amendment of the law . Education law is intended to monitor the fate of graduates. We want to find out how upper secondary school graduates are doing on the labour market, and above all, I understand that this is about professional school graduates, as this is a study that has not yet been carried out, because the yearbooks of professional schools will only be on the labour market. For me, it is very important that the whole system of special education, which brings to work, is included in the study, i.e. those schools which are designed for pupils with moderate and significant intellectual disabilities. This is so important that this group of students so far is basically marginalized on the labour market It is almost impossible to find employment for them. What else hit me when it comes to the records in this bill? So far, the functioning of the education system has assumed the so-called. career research. However, there was no idea that this career study would also serve the ranking of schools. As I understand, when I examine this law, among the data from the SIO system that will be processed will be the number of the school in the register of schools and institutions. Will this give local governments information about how their schools work? Another element that seems quite difficult to accept is the fact that data obtained from the Social Security Office will clearly indicate the amount and nature of income earned by graduates. What I think is quite dangerous about the processing of these data is the fact that aggregate data that are not anonymous will be sent to the Minister responsible for education and education. So there will be many moments when the combined data of the graduate will occur, including information about the place of his employment and the amount of his salary. However, I hope that this very wide-ranging process, which, as I understand from the justification presented by the government... The government clearly pointed out that the need for monitoring stems from the long-term development strategy of the country 2030, the strategy for responsible development, the national reform programme, human capital development strategies, the prospects for lifelong learning and an integrated skills strategy. I therefore hope that this will actually result in adapting the education system to the real needs of the market, which are currently being examined by many different institutions such as the Voivodship Employment Councils, sectoral industry councils or the professional barometer. These studies appear to be insufficient, which in turn will ensure that there will be no unemployment among our graduates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u289	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Ryszard Świlski, Halina Bieda, Aleksander Szwed, Maciej Łuczak, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Ewa Matecka, Mieczysław Golba, Janusz Gromek and Janusz Pęcherz made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those oppressed for political reasons and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 343 and the report of the Commission In print No 343 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Magdalena Kochan, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u290	Thank you very much, Marshal. The first reading of the Senate bill, the Parliamentary printing no. 578, and the Parliamentary print no. 907, took place on 25 February 2021 in the Chamber of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. All the clubs that spoke about both projects claimed that they were worth continuing to process and addressed them to the Committee on Social Policy and the Family. The final result of the work on these two drafts of the Act was that the Committee on Family and Social Policy, as a base project, adopted the parliamentary project rather than the Senate one. The draft I discussed was adopted at the Sejm meeting on 26 February this year. The bill's draft... Well, there's actually, as you say, a bill. Its aim is to improve the life situation of people particularly worthy of the Republic of Poland, and in particular anti-communist opposition activists, politically repressed persons, combatants, victims of war repression and post-war periods, soldiers of military replacement service forced to work in coal mines, quarryings, uranium ore plants and construction battalions, people deported to forced labour and prisoners in labour camps by the Third Reich and the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics, as well as civilian blind victims of war activities. What does this bill provide for these environments? This is very important, because to the whole set of benefits which the Polish State gives its well-deserved, we also add an increase in the income thresholds, which allow for reaching for one-off monetary assistance paid by the head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. So far it has been possible once every 12 months, after the adoption of this law it will be possible to reach for it once every 6 months. Our combatants and all the well-deserved ones I just mentioned will also receive compensation for all the medicines they need to maintain their health and life, to maintain their well-being. Free medicines will also be given to members of their families. The Act grants these people, above all anti-communist opposition activists and those who are oppressed for political reasons, 5 extra days' leave. Up to 26 working days we add the possibility to take 5 extra days' leave. The amendment of this law makes places... And this was provided for in the parliamentary project. It is about subsidies to places in social assistance homes, which sometimes have to be used by persons mentioned in this law. They bear the cost of living, but add to these costs of staying around... Excuse me, can I have a little water? I felt really bad. I'm so sorry. [[I mean, you can file a sit-down report.]] Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. Sorry about the mix-up. I'll be right back. I'm so sorry. The point is that the persons I am talking about, those covered by this law, while staying in social assistance homes, are partly paying the cost of their stay. These costs are about 70% their pensions, pensions or social pensions. The remaining part of the costs shall be covered by their closest, entitled or maintenance obligation, or by the municipalities from which they come. We consider it worthwhile, as the Members have said. In order to ensure that part of the costs to be covered by the people or municipalities concerned are covered in full and immediately by the budgets of the municipalities. The municipalities will establish appropriate resolutions and combatants and persons who have the status of an anti-communist opposition activist or who are repressed for political reasons will have a place in such a social assistance house, the said costs will be fully covered by the municipalities. What is most important in this bill Although all these issues that I mentioned earlier are equally important, it is a question of pension. Today, I ask you that pensions paid to those who are repressed, like everyone else in social security, depend on the amount of contributions paid by them to their individual accounts, divided by the number of months of their life that they have left. The problem is that we recognised the period of imprisonment or the time when the person was in so-called. wolf ticket, that is, when she simply could not take up a job for political reasons, for periods included in the internship needed to obtain the right to a pension, but we also considered that this time spent in prison or lack of employment is counted with a zero conversion rate. This was the case until the law entered into force. And both the senators and the Members in their solutions said: no, this is a bad solution, unfair to this environment. The duration of their stay in prison or political repression, because of which these persons either did very low, very low-paid work or simply did not work, must be counted as if they were working, moreover: with a salary of national average, at the time of prohibition of work or in prison. Here we agree, and Members and Senators. And I don't think it's causing any controversy. Especially since the bill was prepared by the interested parties themselves, Mr Jarosław Goliszewski, Mr Grzegorz Kostrzewa-Zorbas, Mr Leszek Stall, and helped them to prepare all this in the form of a written project Mr Tomasz Siemiątkowski. Both Members and Senators considered this option to be a very important and immediate implementation... That's what the senators said. I'm sorry. Because the bill came out of the Senate on 17 August 2020. I'd like to remind the senators that we've been doing this in Art mode. 69 of our Rules of Procedure, so that the anniversary events of August are also emphasized in some way, that the activists of the former anti-communist opposition should be honored with this new solution, after all convenient for them. Yeah, but it was up until February, just like you. You heard him, in the Seym. Members have prepared a wider project than the senate one for this environment. And what can be said is that it is regrettable that these solutions, which could already have been in place since September I'm thinking about the pensions of the repressed and anti-communist opposition activists. They will be in force from 1 June 2021, which is close to a year later. Well, it is, it is. It must have been important. authorship. Because it didn't prevent us from adopting the Senate project quickly and then submitting it in due time, as at the moment, to a wider environment. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, after considering this project on 16 March this year, has agreed to all solutions, except for the mistake that the government has made, because in addition to higher pensions and pensions... All those who today have pensions below That's what happened in the project... I'm sorry, it was a parliamentary project. Those who have pension amounts less than PLN 2 000 400 will be paid, but, as it turns out, not up to PLN 2 000 400, but up to PLN 2 000 450. And since this is for the benefit of those to whom we will contribute to pensions, we have decided, at the government's request, that an amendment should be made, the proposal of which was tabled by the government at the committee meeting, and this amendment was unanimously adopted by the committee. We have also clarified the date of entry into force of the law and adopted minor legislative and editorial amendments. But because we can't, despite requests from activists, accept this project without corrections, because of the mistake I was talking about. And the solution introduced is far more favourable to the environment, because not up to PLN 2 000 400, but up to PLN 2 000 450 we will equalise lower pensions and pensions We have also decided, in accordance with the Senate bill, to recognise that it is not the municipalities that will participate in the cost of the stay of anti-communist opposition activists or those who are being repressed in social aid homes, but the Office for Veterans. We thought the communes were different... I do not deny local governments their concern for the people most deserved for Poland, but I believe that it is precisely because these people are so deserved for their homeland that we should take over in full these costs of residence, they should be borne entirely by the state budget. These charges would be paid or regulated by the Veterans' Office. And that's the amendment I'm putting in your hands, Marshal. Thank you very much and I am very sorry, these problems have been temporary, and I hope that has passed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u291	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator, why don't you sit here in the front row because there are questions? Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u292	Senator, both for you. ♪ I know it ♪ As well as I have received signals related to a very large request from the democratic opposition's community that we do not make any amendments in the Senate. Did I understand correctly that our amendment is only being notified because the government, due to a mistake in calculations, asked the Senate to accept an amendment which corrects the amount from PLN 2 000 400 to PLN 2 000 450? And if it were not for the government's request for this amendment in the Senate, we would not have tabled any other amendments, but, in view of this situation, the legislative process must still be extended to adopt the amendments requested by the government?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u293	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u294	Exactly as the senator says. Indeed, you have also spoken to me, gentlemen. Which I really thank once again for your support throughout this process, because from August to today I feel the support of authors, co-authors of this project They asked us to accept this proposal without amendments. But, ladies and gentlemen, since today's lowest pensions and pensions of anti-communist opposition activists can be raised to PLN 2 000 450 and not to PLN 2 000 400, for those 50 zlotys the difference is really worth waiting for, the more that the entry into force of the law is planned for 1 June 2021. So the moment between the Senate meeting and the return to the Sejm with this amendment beneficial to the environment seemed really important, important. And that's the only reason why this is the committee's decision. And if we already have one amendment, then the second Senate amendment will be proposed and I cordially ask for it. It's really important that this gesture we're saying... The municipalities are doing their job, they can help with anything else, the municipalities are creative and effective in providing such assistance. But the cost of staying alone and so well deserved for Poland should, however, be at the expense of the state budget and the office for veterans, not of individual municipalities. It's our real national duty to take care of it. That's why it's the amendment. It is not that if I had not tabled an amendment on the DPS today, we would have accepted this proposal without amendments. No. Because the amendments are being used for the social side. [[Mrs. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u295	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u296	I just wanted to be understood so there wouldn't be any doubt. I am very pleased that the government has decided, after calculations, that we are able to transfer 50 PLN more to these benefits. And for that reason, Of course, these amendments are worthwhile. Mr Stanisław Szwed, representing the government here, is a well-known activist of Solidarity, still from the 1980s, and I have no doubt about his good intentions in this regard. [[Maybe 100 zlotys...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u297	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u298	Am I being heard? [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Yes.]] Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Senator, I, referring to this, would like to say that it is lucky that, as far as I know, March 30th is to resume the session of the Sejm, so there is a chance that if we adopt this law And we're gonna take it in the next two days. She's the one who's going to the Sejm. So this will not delay the legislative process itself much longer, especially since the senator pointed out that these rules would come into force from 1 June. So I don't think there's gonna be any problem here. My question is to the senator. Please tell me whether, in the light of this law and the procedure on the basis of the Seym project, the situation of those who were repressed by the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics in the years 1936 and 1956 has changed. Has anything changed in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u299	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u300	Yes, Mr. Senator, the forks that we predicted would help... Maybe it's different. So far, in the Money Provision Act, in the laws which refer to the care of all those who were repressed by the Soviet Union, of those who were sent or deported, we talked about those who suffered these injuries in the years 1936-1956. We are expanding these time forks, so no matter what year, after the fifty-sixth year, these repressions have affected our compatriots, they will have the rights they all have. The other Siberians. These benefits will be granted to them as they have so far been granted to those repressed, deported, sent down, tortured in the years 1936-1956.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u301	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to ask a question? No. The bill was introduced by Members and by the Senate. I remind you that the authorised representative of the Senate on this bill was Senator Rapporteur Magdalena Kochan. Ms Urszula Ruseck has been authorised to present the position of the Members of the bill's applicants. Would you like to speak on the bill under consideration? There is no Member. At present, senators can report from a place lasting no more than a minute... Oh, that's not... I'm sorry. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Hello, Minister Stanislaw Swede. The Minister will speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u302	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I would first of all like to apologize for the absence of Ms Ursula Rusecka. For reasons of covid, she is unable to attend today, but she asked me to provide information, which I am doing here. Once again, I would like to thank both the Members of the Law and Justice who are the applicants for the parliamentary project and the senators for the Senate's draft law on anti-communist opposition activists, because these are good solutions that are decisively improving the situation of all those to whom we owe our freedom today. It is worth recalling the government bill of August last year, which we introduced... where we placed compensatory benefits in the amount of PLN 2 000 400, giving the right to benefit from this amount, persons who were repressed, who did not meet the criteria for acquiring pension benefits or who had lower pension benefits. Which is also important and important in the context of the changes we have proposed... There we have the amount of PLN 2 000 400. After the decision of the High Senate it will be, I think, the amount of PLN 2 000 450. It's worth it here too... The senator has already discussed these proposals for changes in detail, so I will only refer to the content of one of the questions. Questions were raised concerning e.g. increase in income criteria. Let me remind you that in the case of one-off aid at the moment it was 220% The lowest pension, and it'll be 290%. In the case of income in the family it will be raised from 150% up to 220%, and the person who manages alone from 300 to 350. Income criteria for interim aid are increased From 150 to 220%, and the criteria for single-term monetary assistance. In addition, we also introduce 5 working days extra leave for these people, for anti-communist opposition activists. That's a good solution, too, I think. We are also equalizing issues related to social services homes. In the case of anti-communist opposition activists, this will be on the same terms and conditions as for those who use it within the veterans' corps, the Veterans' Corps Walk for Independence. So that's a level playing field, too. As it has been emphasized here, the work lasted quite a long time. There have been various consultations with the anti-communist opposition activists, who have sought to change this law, as well as making various proposals. Today, around 3 000 people who are entitled are entitled to benefit from this first law on the amount of PLN 2 000 400. We're hoping that after these changes... Because we wrote here, for example. such changes that they can benefit from it... Well, people who benefit from a special survivor's pension will also benefit from this right. There is also a slight change regarding issues related to deported to the Soviet Union. Those people. This is the year 1956 and later. They were omitted, so we've settled that, too. We have introduced a change to the earlier project so that this solution will enter into force from 1 June, which means that we have accelerated the entry into force of this law. In conclusion, we are very happy to say that together, we can adopt a law for which anti-communist opposition activists are waiting and which will definitely improve their material situation. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. If there are questions, of course I'll answer. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u303	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me, Mr. Marshal... [[Mr. Marshal Borusewicz was the first...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] That's what I think. In that case... [[But you want me to go first?]] Mr. Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u304	Minister, this law, in addition to increasing one-off allowances and increasing frequency, changes the conversion rate to pensions, which is for the period during which someone was repressed, was in prison or simply working in the underground, introduces a higher conversion rate, a conversion rate to the lowest pension, during the period during which this situation lasted. I'm asking you... As I understand it, with regard to the pension applications that will be made, the situation is clear: there will be a law and the Social Security Office will apply it. And what will be the situation of people who already have pensions and this conversion rate of 0? Should they address the Social Security Office, or will the Social Security Office automatically count it to them? I would like you to explain this to us so that interested persons know what to do in this situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u305	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Mr. Marshal, here the case is resolved so that there must be a request from the person who is interested. For a simple reason: in the U.S.S. they are not in the state of the whole area of people who benefit from pension rights, such people are found, simply you would have to do a gigantic job... [[Sure, there must be a request from the person concerned, individual. Thank you very much.]] Yes. All the more reason that the people who do this... We are also after discussions with the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons, which has a list of such persons, and the information to these people will be directed. And what's important It is also worth explaining here that we are talking about initial capital, i.e. if the person had a 0-numerator and did not have a qualified one... today he will be able to benefit from an average salary at a given time when there was this repression. Of course, it must have the status of an anti-communist opposition activist, it must have proven this period, and then for this period it will not be 0, only it will be converted, so that will result in a higher level of retirement. That's how it works. Of course, others benefit from this compensatory benefit up to PLN 2 000 400. As I said, about 3,000 people at the moment, since August last year, benefit from this, also on request. And this process is open, which means that these applications can still be submitted, and they are kept up to date by the Veterans' Office.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u306	Thank you very much. You ask Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u307	Minister, I apologize at first for asking you this question, because I have no doubt, knowing your resume, that it has been a problem for you since 1980. But all the more reason for me to ask this question: why has it taken so long to work on this bill? The Senate project was launched in the middle of last year. We know that even the situation with COVID, which is now, has led to the fact that a quite small group of potential beneficiaries of this law will unfortunately no longer be able to benefit from these provisions. What took you so long? And as I say, I am addressing this question to you as a representative of the government, not to you personally, because I very much respect you for your activities in Solidarity and for your achievements in this field. And the second question: how, then, was it possible to find those additional measures that enabled a more favourable proposal, which will now be included in the bill after the amendment?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u308	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! The cost of this law is estimated at about PLN 12 million, which is much less cost than in the proposal that was originally considered. This first proposal also contained a fairly open catalogue, and therefore there was a difficulty in identifying the groups concerned. That was the main reason for considering it at this time. I think that's the issue that has come to mind that these decisions were made a little later than we'd like them to be. I'm glad we could expand this project. We have led to the fact that he is now wider than the original proposal that had been made earlier. And today, I think, we can bring him together.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u309	Thank you very much. Senator wants to ask you another question, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u310	I'll be honest, maybe I can explain. That's my question. How did you find the money? It was a question that held the bitter irony. In the context of the state budget, the addition of these 50 PLN is good, but it certainly did not justify such a long working time on the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u311	Thank you very much. Senator Robert Mammoth.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u312	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, before 2015, I made a few pretty attempts to increase my aid to those who were repressed, and there was always one problem. Several times we have been able to recommend such aid, and to a very limited extent, but there has always been this problem that there is no means to do so. This was the case before 2015. Such effective aid for activists was only launched after 2015. I'm convinced... And thank you very much, senator, for presenting this bill in this way. The reason for our shame is that only today can we help these people to a greater extent. I have always fought for those people who are in a difficult situation, but one must also consider that there are many such activists who simply will never volunteer for any help. You just have to catch them, you have to help them. That is why I would like the Minister to declare that there will be no problem financing aid for these activists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u313	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Well, in this case, there will be absolutely no problem. We have the funds provided from the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons, there is no danger here. I'm also confirming what the senator said. Recently, we have taken a lot of good action to help those repressed and anti-communist opposition activists. It's not just that, because there were a lot of changes. Take, for example, this supplement in the amount of 400 PLN, an allowance for veterans. Well, that wasn't there either. This benefit is at the level of PLN 2 000 400 and this is also additional support. So that these actions were Quite a lot. One difficulty was that we adopted the law on these 2,000 400 PLN. She's the one who made the other proposals... Well, we've been more cautious about this, but I'm glad we've made a change in this area. But that doesn't mean there won't be any further proposals that we won't keep looking. We know that there are other groups that ask us and the High Senate for support to adopt different solutions. I think we should try to maintain a balance here between support for combatants and support for anti-communist opposition activists, because it is, so to speak, very delicate matter. Those who have been involved in this work for many years know that we are moving very carefully here so that one group does not act against the other group. However, we should treat those who have fought for our freedom on similar or even equal terms. This is not always possible, but in this respect These are extremely important issues. It seems that both in this law and in previous laws we managed to play it this way.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u314	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u315	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm so glad there's a bill. I would like to thank everyone involved in this process. I have no doubt that this bill is needed. It is a paradox that we, on behalf of millions, thank thousands. Well, thousands of people benefit from these benefits today, and millions are grateful to them. I am talking about those who acted in the anti-communist opposition, in the KOR, in the Free Trade Unions, in the KPN, in the independence trend, in organizations such as the Independent Student Association or the Fighting Youth Federation. I am very pleased that this bill has been adopted. Except for the people Senator Magdalena Kochan was talking about... I have to say, and this is some sad memento for this project that I talked about last year, for example. It's okay. Warrior Borowik. And that's an example of one of those who unfortunately didn't see this bill because they lost to COVID. And for us, it's such a signal to work on this bill as soon as possible. 'Cause I'm sure it's a little bit like we're in this room, and I'm looking at Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, Minister Stanislaw Swede, and I'm also looking at my former colleagues from the Youth Fighting Federation, with whom I was still working in the 1980s. That we found ourselves in this new reality. But I, sometimes attending various meetings, painfully learned that many of those colleagues who really had full conviction about it They devoted their commitment, passion, heart to free Poland, and later in this free Poland they did not find themselves. At this point, there is only one thing to say to me: very warm, thank you very much for all their activities. And it is a very good situation that, as parliamentarians in this way which is assigned to us, i.e. a legislative initiative, we can thank them for their actions for free and independent Poland in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u316	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. In remote mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u317	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would also like to thank all those who contributed to this bill. I would also like to express some appreciation to the government administration that we have finally managed to solve this problem, and to remind you that indeed, in the Senate, a few months ago, we were already working on this law. I would also like to say that what is important is that we managed to lead to the situation that all groups of heroes without differentiation, i.e. anti-communist opposition activists, the heroes of our underground oppressed by both the Nazis and the Soviet Union, have the opportunity to use in some way the fact that the Republic takes care of them and remembers them. What is particularly painful and sad, and what he pointed out in the course of the questions, Senator Mammoths, and here I join what he said. It is that it is not good that with this help few veterans and heroes of our independence will be able to make real use of it. Many people, especially those who were affected by repression during the war and after the war, and those who were touched by the hand of the Soviet Union, even in the earlier period before the outbreak of World War II, will not be able to benefit from this aid in real terms. Unfortunately, the time factor is ruthless and very many of these heroes are no longer going to benefit from this help. So that I would also like to join this appeal by Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, to thank everyone and to express my hope that this act will enter into force on 1 June and will serve with benefit. A procedural turbulence that has occurred I'm thinking about what Senator Lover said. First of all, I think they will improve this bill, and second of all, they will not make it impossible to enter into force on 1 June. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u318	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Marcin Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u319	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I would like to thank all the creators of this law, which is very much needed, all the creators of both the Senate, including Senator Magdalena Kochan and the Sejm. It is important that in matters of honoring heroes and helping heroes fight communism from the 1940s to the 1980s, we can work together beyond divisions. When I vote on this law, of course in favour, probably the day after tomorrow, I will think not of those heroes of the anti-communist movement who, in the 1990s and later, managed very well in life, went into politics, we have such among us, in the High Chamber, built well-functioning enterprises, such as we all know, or have become valued professors of universities or teachers. I will think about those tens of thousands of heroes who fought against the communist system and who later succeeded in free Poland worse. They're mostly the ones who've been consecrated to this bill. When I think of the people I knew in the 1980s and whom I know today, I think of my neighbour from the village of Poznań, Krzysztofie Cnotalski, one of the leaders of the "Solidarity" plant in Cegielski and Solidarity Fighting in Poznań, which is now at a retirement age, I think of Krystyna Stachowiak, a activist of the "Solidarity" and Under-Solidarity, first in the East, in Greater Poland, then in Poznań, workers of the Solidarity Fighting and yet illegal Polish Socialist Party. I also think of Mrs.Aleksander Banasiak, an absolutely symbolic figure for Poznań, a heroic nurse from June 1956, then wounded, helping those who, during the tragic events of June, were injured, persecuted by the SB, active in the 1980s in the movement of Solidarity. These are people with different ways of life, different views. Some of them have been demonstrating again in the streets in recent years, others haven't, but what's great is that at the moment of the highest and most difficult trial, when, in fact, some actions were paid for by prison. All of these people were either interrogated or imprisoned for months. They gave it to the Republic of Poland and the Polish nation very much, also in family, personal life. Now the Republic can make it up to them. I am very pleased that in this House we reward them today from the right to the left through the centre. I'm glad we're doing this with the Seym. One more thing. With two ladies, Mrs. Aleksandra Banasiak and Mrs. Krystyna Stachowiak, I've been talking in the last few days. They said to say hello to the marshal of our House of Tomasz Grodzki, which I hereby do. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u320	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u321	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I also want to thank all those who really, as my colleague said, actively helped. Today we are finalizing the next stage. I don't think it's over yet. I'm sure there'll be attempts to report some things. I want to say here on behalf of the farmers... Because it's always called "Solidarity," it's about big workplaces, persecutions, etc... And now we have the 40th anniversary of registration of the Solidarity of Individual Farmers. And I would like to point out that more than 300 individuals were interned out of the solidarity of individual farmers. It is rare to hear about this number, that 300 farmers have been interned, and many, many more people have been persecuted. And most of those people who had the courage to stand back then are gone today, these people have already passed away, a sacred memory... You can say thank you to them. They didn't see it coming. But there are also those who are still alive, over 80 years old and more, who have experienced very difficult times of fighting collectiveism, with the obligation to supply. They also suffered greatly because it was persecution. All I can tell you is about my father-in-law, who was a gimp who was destroyed, who was suffering. Of course, you can tell why. One of those evidences he showed me... He says, "Look at them stalking me." I'm asking you, but what are they haunting you for? Only because he was born in 1917 in Chicago. His parents arrived in Poland in 1921. And for the fact that he was born in Chicago in personal evidence, he was being harassed. Not just for what he preached, but for what he did. And where he showed up, in all the services... Today's sacred memory... May he rest there... But I show many others who have been persecuted. Of course, they're not listed in any I.P.N. files, they're not there. But they, too, are worthy today to value them. There are a lot of farmers coming to my office right now who are asking to be in the IPN as repressed persons. They acted, we know them, but there are no documents in the IPN, because farming was often hidden. The service couldn't always check it out. Our activities, such a more conspiracy activity, showed that you can hide each other, you can hide where there were printed paperwork, correspondence, etc. Everything was hidden and not always the servants got to it. And the I.P.N. doesn't have documents, and these people were being harassed. So I have a request to IPN for an increased job. Because these people put together conclusions and are waiting to be dealt with. They are often refused because there are no documents, it is often said that witnesses are unbelievable, and some people are excluded, and of course they would also like to benefit, because agricultural pensions are the lowest pensions today. So if they, the sick, could still benefit at this stage, at 70 or 80, then I'd be grateful. But there is a request to the IPN and also to the Repressed Office for faster examination of their applications, because they are waiting for this possibility. It's my appeal and request. And once again, I would like to thank the government, all the Members and the senators for the opportunity to make this available to others who can benefit from it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u322	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senators of Sweden, Gorgon-Komor, Mammoths, Szejnfeld and Bladder made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted proposals of a legislative nature in writing, Senator Kochan. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Thank you.]] Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I would like to inform you that item 13 of the agenda, i.e. The law on amending the Law on the Supreme Court will be considered tomorrow, i.e. March 25th this year We proceed with the review of item 14 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of Infections and Diseases in Human Beings. The text of the Act is contained in print No 351 and the report of the Commission In print No 351 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u323	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Health Committee on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 17 March 2021 amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of Infections and Diseases in Human Beings. The Senate Marshal sent the bill to the committee on 18 March and today, i.e. On March 24th, the committee considered the bill. The Commission asks the High House to adopt the attached draft resolution, the adoption of a bill with amendments proposed by the committee. The High Izbo, which I am talking about here today, was a parliamentary project, a very short one that really concerns one issue, namely the extension of the circle of people who can carry out qualifying tests before vaccination, during the outbreak of COVID-19. I think this change has been expected for a long time. With the vaccination programme submitted in December... Even then, it seemed that there would be a need. The number of vaccination points that should be increased... This also required an extension of the group of individuals qualifying for vaccination. At first, the bill did not raise much doubt, because, as I said, it was expected. After careful reading into the records proposed by the Sejm, during an in-depth discussion, as well as reading into the opinion presented by the legislators, the committee decided to clarify this article and list names... not names, but professional groups of people who can qualify for vaccination. Initially, only a doctor was allowed to qualify for vaccination in the Anti-infection and infectious Disease Act. In the introduction that came to us from the Sejm, this list was extended to include people who do not necessarily pursue a medical profession. This raised a lot of doubt during the discussion at the committee meeting. By supporting, as I say, a legal opinion that has absolutely confirmed the fact that it cannot be so that persons who are not literally mentioned in the law are defined in the regulation, as proposed by the Parliament's draft... After listening to the Minister of Health's position, who confirmed that the Ministry of Health's intention was to pursue specific medical professions, we clarified what the Minister said. It's the same record. A parliamentary amendment was tabled during the work on the Law in the Sejm. This amendment goes absolutely beyond the scope of this law, it does not concern the problem of combating occupational diseases, it only extends the deadlines for existing lists, lists of providers needed later to contract and implement payments by the National Health Fund. This out-of-law misdemeanor, due to the urgency of the time limits, has been considered reasonable, although I would stress that this provision goes beyond the original draft law. The assessment of the Legislative Office strongly stressed that this proposal confirms our position that this is an out-of-law offence, but because of the urgency and the need to keep the deadlines or the extension of these deadlines, the committee was positive and agreed that this article should also remain in this project. However, the Legislative Office has submitted comments which clarify the process of recording these changes themselves. These are legislative changes that have been proposed by our Legislative Office and adopted by the Health Commission. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Health Committee voted positively on this draft, together with the 2 amendments tabled, both the amendment concerning the amendment to Article. 1, i.e. with regard to the law on the fight against infections and infectious diseases, as well as the amendment going beyond the proposed law, and related to the extension of the time limits for lists of providers. I ask the High House to give a positive opinion on the project that has been submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u324	Senator, I need you to stay on the stand, please, because this is the question stage. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u325	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Senator! I have a question: was there a speech at the committee meeting... In the explanatory memorandum to the bill, we will find such information that, in accordance with the applicable provisions of the qualifying examination, only doctors are allowed to carry out a contraindication to the conduct of defence vaccination against COVID-19, and the changes made make it possible for persons performing certain other medical professions to carry out these tests as well. It is important to stress that nurses and midwives are particularly qualified to carry out these tests. Does this amendment, as you have already pointed out here, have any financial implications for the state budget? Was that mentioned at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u326	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u327	No, the committee did not deal with the financial issue, we were more interested in the question of extending the qualifications of people who would be able to allow vaccination. As we are very keen to ensure that vaccination centres are created in different places and are more accessible due to the urgency of vaccination caused by the epidemic. This is an extraordinary situation, it requires extraordinary action and, therefore, we have absolutely seen here the need for enlargement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u328	Thank you very much. I don't see any more requests for questions. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: Thank you very much.]] The draft law was introduced by Members. Mr Paweł Rychlik was authorized to present the position of the applicants during parliamentary work. Does the applicant's representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? I don't see... there's no envoy. [[Voice from the room: Minister...]] Okay... Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Minister Małgorzata Paprocka You're welcome to the podium. Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u329	Good morning. Anna Goławska, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health. (PL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Senators... [[I'm so sorry, ma'am. I was wrong about the order of points.]] The bill presented by the senator is very important to us. So far, there has been a very limited number of vaccines and the potential for vaccination that we have has not been fully exploited. We expect that these deliveries should speed up significantly in the near future, as well as speed up the vaccination process itself. It is therefore necessary to increase the number of people who will be eligible for vaccination as well as to carry out vaccinations. As we know, we have a third wave of disease and doctors are needed to treat infected patients and to treat patients who are in hospitals and need help. Other medical professionals may qualify for vaccination at that time. The second amendment proposed is to change the date of the lists to so-called. hospital networks. This is also due to the current epidemiological situation. The current implementation of hospitals is not adequate for those which are carried out in normal working procedures and there is a need to extend the time limit for the establishment of those lists. It shall apply from 1 January 2022 until 1 October. The current deadline under the rules is 27 March 2021. We ask for a positive review of the bill, a touch of this change.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u330	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Anna Goławska: Thank you.]] And again, I apologize for the mistake. Please remain on the stand for a moment, as the senators can now report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to an authorised representative of the government. You're asking Senator Wojciech Necessary. Senator Necessary, Room 217. Do we hear each other? [[Senator Necessary reported the Minister's will to ask questions, but in the meantime he left. Maybe he'll come back.]] Good. Then we'll get back to the senator. Senator Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u331	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wasn't actually asking you a question, just to discuss it, but since I'm here, I'm gonna ask you a question, Minister. If we pass this bill... This case is very important, it's indisputable that we should vote it out. Vaccinations are the best that can happen now, in a pandemic age The more people we get, the better. But I have the following doubts. If the doctors are not eligible for vaccination, let's move them aside... We are dealing with undesirable symptoms, so-called. NOP. Who will react when such symptoms appear? What are your plans in this situation, what will be done? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u332	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u333	Thank you. Well, we plan that medical professionals, such as doctors, dentists, nurses, midwives, felchers, medical rescuers, should be qualified for vaccination. These are persons who have the appropriate qualifications and experience in providing assistance during a medical event or in case of an adverse reaction. The vaccination facilities must be equipped with concussion kits, these people will certainly be properly instructed, they will have procedures, so these vaccinations will be carried out in a safe manner.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u334	Thank you very much. The question is Senator Dorota Czudowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u335	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, do I understand correctly: do you now agree with those amendments that we discussed at the committee meeting? Because at the committee meeting, I felt like I didn't. I, too, am opposed to these amendments. In this amendment, which lists people who could replace doctors, are also indicated, apparently, physiotherapists and rehabilitators, and I note that not all of them have a higher education. I am no longer talking about the fact that the bill assumes that the government will draw up such a list and we have no reason to question the powers of the government. Have you changed your mind from committee meeting to debate now, and those amendments that have been tabled, including this change of date, do you approve? Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u336	No, the project which was addressed by the Sejm is still supported by the government and its intention was to introduce a delegation into the regulation in which these medical professions will be defined. But we agree on the competitions to qualify... In addition, they will be defined in the regulation, which will be entitled to carry out vaccinations, and in our proposals there were also laboratory diagnes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u337	Thank you very much. The question is Senator Malecka-Libera.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u338	Thank you very much. Minister, I would like you to make this clear, however, because at the meeting of the Committee on Health, you listed exactly the same medical professions that you are mentioning at the moment, and on the basis of your comments at this committee meeting, we have clarified these professions in this amendment. And yet, I would like to say that there cannot be such a situation that the regulation you are proposing... this regulation must be specific to the regulation. So there can be no such situation that... If there are no directly indicated persons in the bill, then the regulation has no one specifically to refer to. Specific persons must be listed here, and the regulation can only clarify and clarify requirements. This is also the answer to Senator à speaking of physiotherapists. Physiotherapists will only be allowed if they meet the eligibility criteria set out in the Regulation. Therefore, my question is this, Minister: at the committee meeting you mentioned the exact same medical professions you mentioned at the moment. And according to this, we entered this competition, instead of people with a question mark, we don't know which one, we typed exactly this competition. So please tell me, are you in favour of this competition or are you against it?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u339	Senator, of course we agree on the competition... [[Senator Beat Małecka-Libera: Exactly.]] ...but we don't agree on the design of the recipe. We believe it is better to make a delegation to the regulation and in the regulation to specify specifically who will be the people, for example... Let us bear in mind the current state of the epidemic. The situation is very dynamic, so perhaps in some time it will be necessary to add another medical profession that could qualify for vaccination, e.g. pharmacist. The regulation will therefore be a much more flexible solution, a better place for such changes and we will be able to react quickly to the current epidemic situation. [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: Mr. Marshal, can I ad vocem?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u340	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u341	We have listed all the medical professions, Madam Minister, only one mentioned in point 1 and the other mentioned in point 2, which will be the result of the regulation... What you are saying at the moment is absolutely counter to what you said at the beginning, that you care that as many people as possible in the medical professions can take part in these vaccinations. That's the first thing. And the second thing, I think, is very important: I would very much like you not to tell me what you think. Things may seem to us, too. But we are based on what the lawyers have written to us in terms of legislation. And the regulation cannot relate to persons, but must relate to specific tasks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u342	Yes, we mentioned the competition in point 2, but this concerns vaccination, not vaccination. These persons will be eligible after theoretical and practical training or having six months' experience. Those are 2 different operations and the injection is therefore 2 points and there is a distinction. In the opinion of our legislators as well as of the Parliament's legislators there is no contradiction to issue a delegation to a regulation in which we will define these specific professions and specific qualifications which they should have.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u343	Thank you very much, Minister. You're asking the senator... [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: One more sentence, Mr. Marshal. There was a discrepancy between the legislators in the Seym and the Senate. The Senate committee has decided that. Thank you.]] Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u344	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question. This amendment, generally very important, is seen in the statistics that Poland is ahead of the vaccination process, so that the appreciation for the government side, also for your department... But I'd like to repeat that question I asked earlier. I had two questions in general, but for the first time, as regards these professions of people who will be eligible for vaccination, the Minister has already basically answered. But I would like to repeat the question that I asked the rapporteur earlier: will this amendment have any financial implications for the state budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u345	As far as the financial impact is concerned, this will not give rise to additional effects as vaccination must be carried out. Whether they are performed by doctors, whether the qualification will be performed by a doctor or by another medical worker, this will also be financed by the NFZ. So if whoever does this is going to have to do it anyway.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u346	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u347	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, that's actually not a question, just a brief remark. Well, in the amendments that have been tabled to us, the ones in print No 351 A, I think there is a mistake. In Amendment 2, to Article. 1, there are 2 amendments to lit. a and lithium b. In point (a) of the first subparagraph, point (b) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: and in a changed mouth. 1 in point 2, paragraph 2 is twice called up. I will read this and you will see that this is not the case: a physical therapist or laboratory diagnostics, who have the qualifications specified in the regulations issued pursuant to paragraph. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Paragraph 1 (1). Well, if anything, it's mouth. Point 1 (1) is replaced by the following: 5 there are no paragraphs, it makes no sense, there are only points, 2 points, in the original text of the amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u348	I think that's a question for the legislators... [[The Minister is supposed to be at a committee meeting, and these legislators are the ones who need to be handed this over.]] We're already after the committee meeting... [[If there are any amendments tabled, there will be one more.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u349	Good. I understand that right now. This is a difficult question to resolve. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u350	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question for you. I'm talking about issues related to possible... Do not give God, but if there is an improper, non-compliance with the rules of action, any medical error in the performance of certain activities by the person who obtains powers under this Regulation, then who will be liable for this situation: will the establishment in which the person will provide this service or that person? What's it gonna look like? Is there anything more you can say about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u351	Responsibility will be on general terms, such as doctors currently apply. In addition, we are proceding the bill on the compensation fund, which will include possible cases of adverse reactions or side effects caused by vaccination.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u352	Thank you very much. Senator Chybick. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Is the senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u353	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One more very important question has come to my attention right now. According to the 2008 Act, a doctor who was eligible for vaccination was required to examine the patient. This duty has now been narrowed down in some way. Well, you can qualify a patient after completing a survey. If there are only positive answers in this survey, and the applicant himself does not say anything else that poses danger, it may not be tested. But he comes in sick and reports danger, talks about something or in this survey there are points to which he has given adverse answers. In these circumstances, a medical examination is to be carried out in accordance with the Law of December 2008 qualifying for vaccination. Question: how will he perform a non-doctor's medical examination? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u354	Senator, this is a physical examination that is already being carried out today by nurses or midwives on the basis of applicable regulations, so we do not see any contraindications to these activities.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u355	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u356	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'm still gonna go over my previous question. You mentioned this compensation fund. It was an announced fund. Tell me when there's a law that applies to this fund. As I understand it, this fund will determine both... possibly guarantee the payment of compensation in the case of precisely these medical errors related to the presently processed law, because that's how I understand your statement. But also in relation to vaccines. Because, as far as I know, the COVID vaccine producers aren't responsible for the vaccines. And now the question is: how are people who may have experienced the negative effect of this vaccine to claim compensation? Because that's what the compensation fund was supposed to do. Well, the vaccine process is already under way, and the fund, I understand, is still gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u357	In the near future, this project will be included in the government's work programme. It's in the process of analysis. The compensation fund mainly concerns adverse reactions to vaccines and compensation payments where patients go to hospitals and require hospitalisation. But this will soon be the subject of the work of the Sejm and the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u358	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Anna Goławska: Thank you.]] No further questions. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Matecka, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u359	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The revision of the Act of 5 December 2008 on the prevention and control of infectious infections and diseases in humans is extremely important, extremely necessary, especially in the current pandemic situation. And precisely because of this particular pandemic situation, it should have been prepared earlier. This change consists in extending the catalogue of persons who may carry out qualifying tests for vaccination against COVID-19 and thus improves the entire vaccination process. However, there is a lack of precision in the records. The biggest mistake, which raises our serious reservations, is the provision of the Article proposed in the Act. 1. And this is the most important article in the entire bill, that is the essence and main purpose of the proposed changes. It's in the article. Point 1 is said to indicate that, in addition to the doctor to carry out the qualifying examination, an unnamed person without a specific profession is identified, a person who has the necessary qualifications, except that those qualifications are determined by the Minister responsible for Health only by means of a regulation. The implementing act shall therefore be referred to the matter which should be regulated in the act. This is clearly mentioned in Art. 92. 1st Constitution. I would like to remind you that this article prejudges that the regulations are issued by the bodies indicated in the Constitution on the basis of the detailed authorisation provided for in the Act and for its implementation. The regulation should therefore only regulate those issues which are already regulated by the law itself. Ladies and gentlemen, it is extremely important that the qualifications of persons qualified to carry out the qualifying examination guarantee the safety of those vaccinated against COVID-19. Therefore, the amendments proposed by the Health Committee state that they may be doctors, dentists, nurses, midwives, felchers, paramedics, physiotherapists or laboratory diagnostics. And only in this form is the bill worth supporting, which I encourage all your senators to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u360	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u361	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are dealing with a very difficult situation. At the moment, we are practically a leader when it comes to deaths in Europe. 50,000 340 Poles died and 2 million 120,000 670 people were ill. Vaccinations are necessary at the moment, but, as my previous speaker just said, the safety of these vaccinations is very important. Well, to date, over 5 million vaccinations have been carried out, which is unfortunately far from the target for a 38 million-dollar nation, which is 70% from the time of vaccination. population, so we'd have population resistance. That's a long way from where we're at. With this number of vaccinations, 5,000 and 179 adverse reactions occurred, most of which were 4,000. 443 was mild in nature, mild in nature, and the other, or very small in percentage, were severe complications. And I wasn't persuaded by the Minister in both cases. In one case, concerning who will qualify, the dentist... the midwife and the nurse are actually trained, so the minister didn't respond cleverly. But will the pharmacist or physiotherapist really be able to perform a physical examination? Maybe he'll be able to interpret them. I mean, that's a lot of knowledge. And will he be able to provide qualified assistance in the event of septic shock? I don't know if the card itself that he's gonna have written on, what and what order he's gonna have to give is gonna be enough. We support, I support the need for the greatest possible... And I've really dreamed from the beginning of what's promised and what's not there: that there'll be millions of these vaccines. So far, people are in line for vaccines, and these vaccines are gone. What we hear is that it's not one vaccine or another, it's not the government's fault, it's the producers. Nevertheless, there is no such great massage. And really, God forbid this mass should come to an end. But still, Minister, we need to secure it somehow. So I was hoping that you would answer me, that in places where a diagnosis will be eligible or another person who, however, is far from the medical profession, at least somewhere next door will be a doctor who will be able to help if necessary. And I hope that this will happen and that we will achieve this population immunity. When I don't know. I'm afraid it'll never be holy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u362	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Wojciech Necessary. He's not here, is he? [[Voice from the room: Next...]] There is no Senator Necessary, so Senator Dorota Czudowska. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u363	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would just like to add a few words about the course of our committee meeting. Madam President, in truth, said that the committee had accepted the amendments, but not unanimously. We, representatives of the Law and Justice Club, voted against these amendments. 1 person abstained. Because we believe that the law that came out of the Sejm fulfils all the conditions and does not require provisions that are over-regulation of the law. As the Minister said: we will not mention someone who will also prove useful in the process of organising vaccinations, and we will have to change the law again. The bill isn't to write down everything, replace all the competitions with accuracy... Because we can't determine that accuracy today. The bill is good. The Sejm has adopted a good bill. And part of the Health Committee, the Senators of Law and Justice, believes that there is no reason to undermine the government's powers to organise vaccination centres and qualify individuals for vaccination. And we were in favour of adopting this bill without amendment. So that, yes, the Health Committee accepted these amendments, but not unanimously. And that's what I'd like to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u364	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u365	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Well, I would like to draw attention to the following issues. Well, we're dealing with a situation where the pandemic is still surprising. We actually have some kind of show fighting something that's not exactly defined, and we don't know how to proceed. However, we have already had a pandemic in Poland for a year, and therefore some things could have been prepared earlier. It seems to me that the issue of legal instrumentation, the way health care works, all the sanitary restrictions that are being introduced... Here, unfortunately, the government has not been careful enough to prove it. I am talking mainly about the restrictions on health warnings and there are further judgments of the court, including the Supreme Court of last week. This shows that this lesson is probably a little poorly done, which is sad, because at least in this respect it was possible to prepare itself better, and not to expose the Polish state to situations which, on the one hand, undermine citizens' confidence in the state and, on the other hand, make the state inefficient, because there are no tools that perhaps should have to fight the pandemic more effectively. I didn't accidentally ask the Minister about the compensation fund. As I read, the consultation was due to end on 24 January. This fund was announced by the Prime Minister, if I remember correctly, at the turn of the year or in December last year. It's almost the end of March, and there's no bill. The next session of the Sejm is on March 30th, and it will probably be in mid-April. Before this goes to the Senate, it's gonna be April and May or May. Before it hits the president's desk, it'll be May. It will be almost six months since the introduction of the vaccination campaign in Poland, and this fund was announced as a parallel issue. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that this fund is, at least, the result of what can be heard so far. It does not provide compensation for the immediate family in the event of the patient's death if, God forbid, it was caused by complications related to vaccination. I am talking about all this for this simple reason, that I think it would be better if somehow the whole legislative path of the coronavirus was carried out more harmoniously. Perhaps there was a good time, you had to think about it earlier and revise the 2008 epidemic law. It was created in a slightly different social reality, we did not have present experience and not all situations that would require legal description were properly included in this law. At the moment, we are in such a situation that some lawyers believe that a state of emergency, a state of natural disaster, and others say that the introduction of such a state at the moment would increase the level of legal chaos. The situation is what it is, and today we discuss it on the eve... It seems that tomorrow, the Prime Minister is about to announce an alert for the next two weeks as a result of the development of the pandemic. Of course, this law is a rescue action that enhances potential, let's call it a rude, transformative health care in the fight against pandemics and the possibility of taking a vaccine action, but all of this could be thought of in a harmonious, earlier and more peaceful way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u366	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senators of Sweden, Kołacz-Leszczyńska and Gorgon-Komor made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the Cohesion and Development Agency. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 320 and the committee's report In print No 320 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u367	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the 3rd Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union Which committees submit to the High House together with a request to adopt the attached draft law on the Cohesion and Development Agency. We had the opportunity and in the Senate forum, and in the public debate to justify the bill. I'll be very brief. The aim is to find the most appropriate institutional form for the programming and management of European funds, which in the forthcoming budgetary agenda will go to Poland and other Member States in an extraordinary amount, so as to ensure their professional use, politically impartial and the most transparent. This involves the concern to maximise the potential of local government, local government units, which were most responsible for the implementation of European projects. The basic idea is to create an independent agency in the legal form of an executive agency based on the principle of cooperation between government and local government, as well as other constitutional institutions, including the Marshal of the Sejm and the Marshal of the Senate, and the parties to social dialogue. It is not, therefore, a matter of taking over the management of such programmes to move from government to self-government, but of entrusting this task, this special task of the institution based on the principle of cooperation between the two parties, i.e. synergies. The Agency would have the main management powers in the field of national operational programmes, and I still use the existing nomenclature, with the exception of programmes relating to fisheries, agricultural policy, agriculture, as well as the asylum and migration fund. The Agency would also manage the use on the basis of European programmes of a special recovery fund after COVID. I also use the well-known category of regional operational programmes, which would be the responsibility of local voivodships. At their request, the Agency could only assist local authorities in carrying out this task. This is a circle of essential competences described in the Act. As I mentioned, the fundamental idea of the project is to entrust this special task to the new institution based on the principle of cooperation and constitutional institutions, and the government party, and the local government party. This dictates the structure of the council, in which both sides, but also those appointed by the Marshal of the Sejm and the Marshal of the Senate, will form its composition, as well as those designated by the Council of Social Dialogue, representing the two sides of the Council of Social Dialogue. The government of this agency will mean the need to communicate with both parties, hence the qualified majority needed for the selection of the board. We assume that there will be a competition procedure in the selection of the persons to whom the management function will be entrusted. During the consultation we accepted the amendments suggested by the Ministry of Finance, these are the regulations of the Article. 9 and 13 concerning the conduct of the financial economy and the revenue of the Agency. Finally, I would like to thank all those who participated in the drafting of the bill, above all Prof. Hubert Izdebski, the senators, all those who signed the original bill, including those who were the most active Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, Senator Marcin Bosacki, Senator Filip Libicki, Marshal Stanecka With great power the representatives of the local government who took part in the consultation of the draft law and contributed to the final content of the project. Many proposals have been adopted between the creation of the original version of the project and the preparation of what the High House receives from 3 joint committees. I therefore request that the draft be adopted in the version in which three joint committees report it. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u368	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u369	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question. In the impact assessment for the proposed draft we have information on the results of the consultation and we have a number of opinions here, and many of these opinions are critical. E.g. In its opinion, the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber stated that the law should regulate the financial economy of the Agency more precisely. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has expressed his view that the project needs to be supplemented with regard to the costs of implementing the proposed legal solutions and how they are financed, in particular in the context of the likely impact on the State budget. How would you relate to these issues? It is said that this is not in the impact assessment of the regulation. Therefore, I would like to ask you to be more specific here.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u370	First of all, the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber called for his delegate or person nominated by the President of NIK to not be part of the board of agencies. We have accepted this solution. In its original version, the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber was one of the nominees of the members of the Board of Agencies. As for financial regulation, we have enriched the project, these are the articles. 9, 12, which are the result of the adoption of ideas formulated during the consultation and by the Ministry of Finance, and partly by the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. As for the Senator's second question, I would like to remind you that the project involves taking over a substantial part of the human resources currently under the responsibility of the Ministry serving the Minister responsible for development, hence the conclusion in the document, in the OSR, that the establishment of the Agency will not entail additional expenditure of a budgetary nature and may even develop the possibility of a more cost-effective action. So much for me.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u371	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Kwiatkowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u372	Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, my previous speaker quoted the opinion, and I will quote two more things and ask you to respond. In the opinion of Professor Leszek Kwieciński, we read that the current system of managing European funds in Poland, I quote, contains a significant number of characteristics of imperative management. According to this concept, the system is highly centralised with the dominant role of the State's apparatus institution, the Ministry of Finance, the Funds and Regional Policy. And further: The centrally designed system of redistribution of European funds often results in the so-called "department of European funds." The distribution conflict and the policyisation of the whole process. The model also dominates the bureaucracy of the whole process and the facade of interaction with regional, local and socio-economic stakeholders, generating little transparency and consequently low efficiency and low efficiency. In addition, to confirm these words we also have the information from the diagnosis of the World Bank contained in the ranking published in 2021, in which we read that Poland has low institutional capacity and efficiency in 27 countries studied in the European Union. According to the World Bank, Poland, with a score of 0.52, ranks twenty-fifths in the European Union, with an average of 1.2. This indicator assesses the quality of public services, the quality of civil service, the quality of policy formulation and implementation and the credibility of the government. While combining the poor credibility of the government and institutional efficiency with a high assessment of local government in Poland... Does this project address these problems and aim to remove the development barriers related to this information, which are contained in the opinion and in the diagnosis, as well as the practice of sharing funds, the money that we had shown under the second tranche of the local initiatives fund?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u373	Thank you very much, Senator Kwiatkowski. Indeed, the project responds to the challenge of impartial and better governance. The senator quoted opinions and documents. I have another very loud report, prepared under the auspices of Prof. Hausner, prepared in 2014 and announced before the 2015 elections, where this diagnosis is also about a too centralist and bureaucratic model of managing European funds. I want to be very precise. Yes. I do not define the phenomenon of corruption of funds originating in the European Union, which took place e.g. in the Czech Republic. However, we have a problem with the politicalisation of resources and we have a problem with the overly centralist formula of management. We respond to these challenges by looking for a new system model, i.e. a model that encourages cooperation or forces the cooperation of many constitutional institutions and 2 parties, which should work together on a partnership basis: government and local government. So I can subscribe to these diagnoses, which you reminded Senator Kwiatkowski, and pay attention to the systemicity of this proposal, the systemicity and the long-termity of this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u374	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u375	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question for you. By sharing the direction of thinking about it as best as possible, as I understand it, such concern was given to the authors of this law, the distribution of funds to come to us, I have the following question. Isn't that how I would ask for information here, because I admit that I do not know that the way in which the funds are shared on this national agenda is dependent on the European Union, and in this respect there is no mechanism envisaged to make this mechanism communal by including e.g. Self-government? Is it, or is it not? As if the senator would like to speak on this subject... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u376	This is up to the Member States. Of course, there are restrictions under EU law. We are also in a situation where we are all waiting for the content of the EU regulation, the main regulation on programmes financed in the new budgetary agenda, to which Polish law will also have to be adapted, including the implementation law and the law on development rules, even if Parliament did not decide to adopt the proposed law on the Cohesion and Development Agency. But the establishment of the agency itself, the institutional structure itself, does not conflict with the requirements of the European Union. I would also like to say that in some countries, as was said in the joint meeting of 3 committees, there are already such agencies and the Italian agency is equipped with important competences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u377	Thank you very much. The question is Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u378	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question. I may have missed it, but I'd like an answer. Did the Ministry of Finance support or support this project after the Commission adopted the amendments tabled by the Ministry of Finance? That's the first question. And the other. Tell me, as far as the intentions of the people who are the authors of this project are concerned, was it their intention to prevent, if any, pathologies that occurred in the allocation of the local investment fund? Although it was our money, Polish money, that will be EU money, but it is about criteria. The point is that this money should be shared in a transparent and fair way. Were you guided by these experiences regarding the local investment fund? That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u379	I didn't have the impression that the Ministry of Finance would support the project because of the adoption of part of the proposal from this department. I have no title to judge the Minister of Finance's statement. I have the impression that the government has no approval for the project, but we have accepted some of the amendments. The bill itself emerges from system thinking. I can only assure everyone that, certainly, if the will of the legislator and of all the institutions involved in the legislative process is positive, the practices that have taken place in the distribution of funds from the local initiatives fund, such extreme bias in distribution, will not take place now and in the future, which I want to encourage all parties to the political dispute to support the project, because this is a guarantee that, regardless of what political majority will rule, European programmes and European funds will be managed in a professional and impartial manner.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u380	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u381	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As with any legal act setting up an institution, it would be necessary to ask who will be part of the institution if, of course, it is a personal institution and what the institution will do. And now I am. Did the vocation because it was given here as an asset One of the bodies, namely the board of agencies, by those who represent the executive authority, i.e. ministers... This is still the case, but here comes the legislative authority, the Marshal of the Sejm and the Senate, until recently the President of NIK was in the original text, but the members of the local government, the Commission of the Common Government and the Territorial Government are coming. So it's like this. That's what I'd call it. A conglomerate. Is that in accordance with the principle of three divisions of power or not? That's the first question. Two. From what will this body, this advice, and then appointed and supervised by the board of directors, answer? How will they be responsible? Well, if there is executive power, it is clear, political responsibility, the possibility for the Sejm to appeal, we are talking about the government. If there's a legislative authority, then the sovereign cancels. Who will appeal these persons, on what basis, on what criteria? In short, will they be irresponsible in the sense that they will not be held responsible for their actions? That's a question of composition, responsibility. And I'm most interested in the involvement of the local government. The constitutional definition of local government, because that is what we are talking about, not about professionally, is: The territorial government performs public tasks not reserved by the Constitution or by the law for the authorities of other public authorities. We understand that the local government of Warsaw In Warsaw, because of the territoriality; the local government of Krakow In Cracow; local government of Opole Voivodeship in Opole Voivodeship. On the basis of which representatives of the local government, in total randomly selected, because certainly not elected, without any I.D. of the sovereign, i.e. a given local community... On what basis will these people interfere in the affairs of the state, i.e. in the affairs of other local authorities? Where is this constitutional basis? These are the 3 questions for the time being, which are about the entities, because for the subjects in the next series.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u382	Yes. I'll start with the rule of division of power. Well, the point of the principle of division of power is to ensure that the core of each authority is not violated. However, the idea of sharing power does not mean total separation. If that were the case, Mr. Senator should be in favour of the Minister of Justice not sitting on the National Judicial Council. The principle of division of power does not mean the principle of pure, total separation, but the protection of what is fundamental in each authority. The Law on the Cohesion and Development Agency shall be without prejudice to the core of any authority, without prejudice to the core competence of the executive authority. The constitutional basis for this institutional solution is the principle the cooperation of the authorities for the good of the Republic included in the preamble to the Constitution, which also has normative value in this part. As for the democratic legitimacy of representatives of local government, I believe that it is undisputed because it comes from democratic elections. Each member of the Joint Government and Local Government Commission is a registered person. Yes? For this reason, the democratic legitimacy of the members of the Committee of the Regions of the European Union is not asked because the Committee of the Regions of the European Union does not come directly from democratic elections, but each of its members has democratic legitimacy. We were looking for... [[Voice from the room: How do you know that?]] We've been looking for... the presidents, the mayors have that kind of ID. We were looking for the most legally secure solution with a statutory basis and strong anchoring in the legal system. This is the basis for a joint committee of government and government. We wanted to avoid arbitraryness and bad innovation in defining local government representation, so we referred to the body that exists and, as I understand it, enjoys the trust of every government. Since the joint committee of government and government was established, executive power has never challenged the democratic legitimacy of its local partners from the joint committee of government and self-government. As regards control procedures, the Agency will be subject to scrutiny by the Supreme Audit Chamber. Its reporting obligations are described, which it carries out in relation to the President of the Republic. There is therefore no risk that we create a body removed from the standard control rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u383	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u384	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, it is important to point out a sensitive time when you are making this proposal, a time when a new programming period for EU funds is being set. As regards the self-government side, I will quote one more opinion from the impact assessment of the regulation that we received during the consultation of this project. I am referring here to the opinion of the Silesian Association of Municipalities and Districts, which, although the idea itself has been assessed as valuable and undeniably important, but pointed out that due to the moment of submission of the project and the time needed to complete the legislative process, there are some doubts about the current stage of preparation for the next programming period. According to the Silesian Association of Municipalities and Districts, the introduction of such important changes as presented in the draft law raises concern about the possibility of significant delays in the implementation of cohesion policy. The Silesian Association of Municipalities and Districts also considered it important to review and agree on the division of competences between the appointed agency and the minister responsible for regional development and to review the tasks of the managing authority, as the project does not seem to take into account the management boards of voivodships as managing authorities. Similar comments were made by Deputy Mayor of Gliwice, who also said that the proposed project would deprive voivodships of competence in many fields as regards EU funds. How are you gonna deal with that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u385	This key reservation was due to a misunderstanding in the reading of the bill. This is very clearly defined: regional operational programmes will be the responsibility of the local authorities of the voivodships. I am pleased that the project itself and its fundamental principles have a positive assessment. It is only regrettable that other actors have not notified similar initiatives. If we had two, three competitive, innovative initiatives, our work would be richer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u386	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u387	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The second series concerns the subject. Who will be in the squad and how responsible they will be, we already know. Now, here's the subject matter. In your last statement, you rightly said, Senator, that this law does not apply to regional operational programmes, at least I do not see them here. So we're supposed to share, in quotes, all the people of our country. National programmes will be managed jointly by local government and central institutions, by representatives of central institutions and representatives of local government, and I would call them local government, in particular regional operational programmes, no longer. They kind of stay where they are, in the same management. Okay, but the question is, what programs are we talking about? I on the European Funds website have counted 6 such programmes in the Ministry of Finance, and here it is actually only in Article. In paragraph 7, the first paragraph is replaced by the following: 1 such a statement that it is a managing authority for the national operational programme, in small letters. If any, in the plural number of national operational programmes. So, yes, everything that is centrally managed will be managed by the agency and by the local authorities so far. It's self-government. And that's fair. Yeah, but there's still a third component that's coming in now. It's about what's going to happen in the National Reconstruction Programme. From what I have been taught, it is clear that the European Commission will decide there. This is such a special, special program, which will be in quotes of course It is managed by the European Commission. Do you, Senator, want to deprive the European Commission of its influence over the management of this programme? As I say, this is another programme, we are not talking about the ordinary European budget. It's about the one who's not sure because he's not ratified, etc., but everything's going well. So there is a very simple question about the subject: what will this agency manage, what resources? Am I speculating well? Or maliciously or really?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u388	Whether maliciously or gently, you know best, Senator. And the fact that I have provoked you to defend the sovereignty of the European Commission is... [[It's a success.]] Indeed, it's a success. Yeah, I'm sure. The reimbursement of the national operational programme is a legal category in which these equivalents of the national operational programme will eventually fit in after the negotiation of the Partnership Agreement with the European Union. To my knowledge, a significant part of the funding from this special anti-covid programme will certainly not be directly managed by the European Union. It may also be that some of these measures will go to what is known to us as national operational programmes from the coming budget agenda of the European Union. The project operates with adequate and flexible solutions. I repeat once again: because of the consistency of the legal system, it is dictated that the law will be adapted in the event of the adoption of the Agency Act to the EU rules that are not yet known to us. Anyway, it's gonna have to be adjusted anyway. Let us assume that the majority of the parliament will freeze the draft law on the Cohesion and Development Agency, which is unfortunately highly likely. This is how we are expected to correct the entry into force of the relevant EU regulation and the inadequateness of the current rules. And the project uses categories that allow the functionality of these records. And I would like to stress that, according to my knowledge, the national operational programme will not be managed and will certainly not be managed in most resources directly by the European Commission.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u389	Thank you very much, Senator. There are no further questions, so thank you for the report. [[Thank you very much.]] Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? I invite the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy, Mr Waldemar Buda.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u390	Mr. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Ladies and gentlemen! I remember very well the speeches in the Senate. We have always been able to learn a lot of good here and to take into account a lot of amendments resulting from such really, you can say, the work of ants, heavy, resulting actually in reflections and reflections on legal acts. But let me tell you honestly that the extent of the incompetence of this project is so great that... I don't want to use bigger words here because I don't want to be uncultural, but believe me, if we showed this to the European Commission, we would probably freeze ourselves spending money for a few years. It is really quite frivolous that at the time we are in the process of introducing a new perspective, when dozens of authorities and institutions are working on the implementation of the system of national operational programmes, regional operational programmes, the whole system of intermediate institutions in this is functioning, reporting something like this and recognising that such an institution can implement a new cohesion policy and can implement a new perspective 2021 and 2027. This is unbelievable, really unbelievable. Believe me, we had this idea for a while to show it to the Commission, but we thought that in the name of the good of the state we would not show, because it would just be a shame for all of us, not just for the applicants of such a project. Ladies and gentlemen, the system that works today is a system that is being updated, which is a system that is being repaired, which improves as a result of several years of work. I do not attribute to us a functioning system, the state of its advancement, the implementation of European measures, because this has been happening since Poland entered the European Union. This system was repaired, improved every year, with every new perspective, with every new minister it evolved. And today we have a really great system that manages European funds. The level of spending, the contracting of funds is today at a satisfactory level, and we are the fifth and sixth countries in the European Union. Irregularities in the functioning of the system, identified by OLAF fourth, fifth place in the European Union... An exemplary system... The number of irregularities is two-and-a-half times lower than the European average for OLAF's examination of irregularities. Ladies and gentlemen, and today, in 2021, with challenges of this kind, that there is a system that is also to be duplicated to the national recovery plan, the whole implementation system is to be repeated from the cohesion policy... And today we propose an agency that duplicates the tasks of the Minister responsible for funds and regional policy, without proposing intermediate bodies, without a system of implementation of the whole institution, i.e. the appointment, the granting of its competence, without a diversion line between the Minister... without any indication, what would the Minister responsible for funds and regional policy be doing then? This is unbelievable. I really don't want to go into details. I'm only surprised at one thing. The state has a whole bunch of lawyers who give very radical opinions about even the slightest bumps... I myself was the author of the laws that were here, and the hair was divided into four because of minor comments. I'm surprised there's no extreme, devastating opinion of the office, the lawyers here in the Senate about this project, because it's the only project that deserves it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u391	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u392	The question to the Minister is to give me the degree of irregularities in the spending of European funds in the local government and in the generally understood government administration, for example. in the implementation of road and rail investments by GDDKiA. Where is it higher, or where the money is spent by the local government, or where the money is spent by the broadly understood government administration? And if the Minister could remind me how the extensive control of the Central Anti-corruption Office in 16 Marshal offices ended, announced as so-called. Supercontrol of the spending of European funds by the local government... [[Is this really related to this project?]] Yes, because we heard that money from European funds from the government administration is so great in Poland. So I'm asking you to provide me with data to support the thesis made by the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u393	Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u394	Ladies and gentlemen, as regards the extent to which European funds are being spent on the current perspective, the national programmes are ahead of 3% of the regional programmes. That's one thing. [[But that's not what I asked, Minister, it's the degree of irregularity.]] [[Don't disturb me, Senator.]] Secondly, there was indeed a risk of losing several hundred million euro from regional operational programmes. This was indeed the case in 2018, but we managed to discipline the marshals in a way and lead to a situation where we did not lose any euro. There was no such threat at national level. That's two. Thirdly, I am far from saying that the management of regional operational programmes by marshals is wrong. We work together every day, our competences are connected. In many cases, the Minister responsible for funds and regional policy agrees to the management of the various activities by the marshals. And this cooperation is perfect. I am certainly not going to divide the management of European funds into regional and national programmes, because this is antagonization, which does not lead to anything good. And yet, a lot of authority, a lot of action... Well, for example, monitoring committees consist of representatives of ministers, NGOs and local governments, including regional governments. So this cooperation has been functioning, and not only since 2015 or 2016. This cooperation, which operates in 2021, was also active in 2012 and 2011. And then there really were no comments. I understand that this whole initiative comes from one thing. The giant measures negotiated by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki are imaginative. Well, these huge funds will be distributed to local governments, to various institutions. I understand that you would like to be a part of this, but democratic elections did not allow it. Well, then maybe the agency could handle it. But you can't just do that. We don't tear down something that experts think is a well-functioning system. We in the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy have changed little of what we found in 2015. This is a very good mechanism based on excellent, self-educating professionals who have been operating in this ministry since Poland entered the European Union. Throughout Europe, they are treated as great professionals. So doing something like this, showing that someone's doing something right and someone's doing something wrong, showing that a regional program... Why don't we move this to marshals now and say this marshal manages better, and this one's worse. Well, I have statistics like this, and I can tell you what it looks like, but that's not the point. We support each other and work together. We will certainly not divide anyone into better and worse ones, either in regions or at national level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u395	Do you want to ask, Senator? [[Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u396	The Minister didn't understand my question. I am, of course, pleased with your positive opinion of local government. Well, that's my opinion. But this project is going to get us to avoid certain situations. Well, where there are no built-in control mechanisms, the government unfortunately, I would say, shows a low level of transparency in the distribution of money. Let me stress once again that it was not money from European funds, but it was also shared by the government. I'm referring here to an example you know. The second tranche of the fund of local initiatives in the Łódź voivodship: Łódź, zero zlotys for zero projects, the municipality of Dąbrowice with 1 thousand 914 inhabitants. And that's what we're talking about. The philosophy of this project is to build a cooperation mechanism between government and local government. I agree with you. I can serve with statistics and spend money better than the public administration. As for this question, which you have not answered, on the question of CBA's supercontrol on spending EUR 17 billion 300 million, the CBA has found irregularities in around 1.8 projects audited. Possible irregularities concerned tens of millions of zlotys, i.e. A few or a dozen projects. These are facts, that's how local government works in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u397	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u398	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two short questions. This will be an extension of what we discussed with Senator Ujazdowski. The question is whether, in the European Union at all, an institution which is thus created In the local government, the national executive, the national legislature, they gather undemocratically and delegate their candidates, they form the supervisory board, and this one in turn appoints, supposedly after the competition, the board, except that the first board of directors, art. 28, is appointed for a period of 2 years without recruitment... And once we have an institution in this way, we do not know how these people respond. Just constitutionally? Penalty? Would such an institution, thus created, be accepted as a partner for the European Union in the distribution of money? And it's a subjective page. And here's the page... Minister, explain briefly what the funds are right now, in particular the one we know the least about, namely the Reconstruction Fund, which will consist of national recovery plans for individual countries. Who's actually gonna run the money there in quotes? Who's gonna make the decisions? Could it be undertaken by the Board of the Cohesion and Development Agency in this way?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u399	If I may... Ladies and gentlemen, in order to establish such an institution throughout the structure of the implementation of European measures today, from the very beginning, once again, as proposed, I would hope that this could be agreed with the Commission by 2028. In general, the preparation of such documents is that a working project is sent to the Commission, a concept of what the whole system of implementation, accreditation, certification, audit would look like... For this agency, no such thing as an audit is envisaged at all. After all, this is unacceptable by the Commission, normally in the world. Of course, it is impossible for such an institution to take control of the management of European funds. Where are the intermediate bodies here, how would the managing authority carry out its tasks without intermediate bodies, what about intermediate bodies which are now certified by the Commission, which have the power to distribute funds on the basis of the intermediary body? You don't even talk about it here, because there's no diagnosed problem at all, the whole system that works today. Ladies and gentlemen, the National Reconstruction Plan will be managed by the European Commission. National recovery plans after adoption by the Commission and following the Council's directional agreement will be European Commission documents. [[Exactly.]] They will be documents of the European Commission. We will only put forward a system of implementation at national level, but this is a system managed by the European Commission. And of course, there would not be an agency in this group that could manage it, because in any country a national entity does not manage this specific national recovery plan. Ladies and gentlemen, from the perspective of 2021 to 2027, there is no way that any institution other than the one that is today, apart from this system that is today, can operate with European funds. It's just impossible. Today we have a partnership agreement after consultation, today we have regulations at European Commission level, today we have operational programmes that are in public hearings and in public information, we have a consultation of all the operational programmes that have already been in that perspective, and those that will be in the next. We have the closure of previous operational programmes, we have a National Reconstruction Plan prepared, which must be submitted by 30 April. And we are dealing with something like an institution that could be set up in six months to recruit workers who would learn this segment and learn how to certify measures when the European Commission does not know anything about it. That's the thing. Really unbelievable, and let's stop there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u400	Thank you very much. Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u401	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I fully agree that the project is destroying the system of obtaining European funds not on the eve of a new perspective, but in fact at a time when this new perspective for programming measures has already started, because we are in 2021. I have questions about those opinions I quoted earlier. The Silesian Association of Municipalities and Districts indicates that the project does not seem to include voivodship managers as managing bodies, and that the deputy president of the city of Gliwice indicates that the project will deprive voivodships of competence in many fields, i.e. it is so de facto hitting not only government and raising funds by government side, but also in their acquisition by this local government and by local governments as managing authorities. Would you mind referring to that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u402	That is, of course, right, because today the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy is a partner in managing funds also regional operational programmes. Today we negotiate programme contracts under regional operational programmes, whole contracts with special solutions for the entire 7 years. On the entry into force of this law, this agency would not have any delegation to discuss programme contracts. They would lose a total of EUR 7 billion on a national scale if something like this were proposed. Let me be honest: the adoption of this law would block any European measures in the near future, we would normally not get a single euro in the world, because we would not have a system which would be credible in terms of the implementation of European measures. Zero euro per capita also zero.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u403	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions. I'm opening a discussion. Mr. Senator Świlski was the first in remote mode. Are you the senator? Richard can hear us? He can't hear, so at best he'll speak later. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. Come on in, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u404	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister's statement gives me optimism, because if he's talking about this concern that we wouldn't get any money from e.g. Such a mechanism as the Fund for Reconstruction and Development, I understand that in this area, such an important project, the government has a majority in its parliamentary facilities in the Sejm and it is the back room, in its entire spectrum, i.e. the parliamentarians of PiS, Solidarna Poland and the Jarosław Gowin Agreement, supports this project with such capacity and difficulty, for which we thank, negotiated by the Ministry. Of course, we'll see about that in a minute. This project, which we have presented, you have prepared Senator Ujazdowski, is a project based on such philosophy that the government does not always know better. Because it's obvious, and no one questioned it, and neither did I, the effort, the work you did in the negotiations. Of course, I do not fully understand the wording that the consultation has ended, because in relation to individual documents, I understand that this is some form of simplification, because some of these documents, for example. The National Reconstruction Plan, of course, is still in the process of consultation. What bothers me is a certain philosophy saying that those who spend money and are not subject to our control may spend it wrong or worse. The example I referred to is so-called. control of the Central Anti-corruption Office's spending of money by marshal offices. This audit was launched in June 2016. It's not a random date, because the opposition was in charge at the time. From your point of view, the opposition In 15 marshal offices. And I have a side of the Central Anti-corruption Office, an announcement of this control: the CBA will control all expenditure from European funds that were shared by the Marshal's offices, i.e. more than 17 billion. According to the CBA, such control may last for 3 months, in exceptional circumstances it has been extended, in this case up to a maximum of 9 months. There are no more messages as the check is over. And you should be, you should be very happy to repel: local governments in Poland spend money honestly, irregularities in spending money is an absolute ferry. But there's no message about it. This is the information that breaks through on the seventh pages of regional newspapers, that irregularities relate to some minor projects. The only system error was the operation of the so-called system. producer groups in Lublin. Well, there were six similar cases. That's what we're talking about. Today we are discussing that, in the case of the creation of such important documents, in the case of the creation of certain programmes and, I would say, the philosophy of spending these funds, we expect a real dialogue. I listened to the Minister last week when you were a guest of the Senate Committee. Well, this consultation can't be facade. The voice of self-governments should be heard, the local government should really co-create the principles of the distribution of these funds. Local government is our huge asset. When I was vice-president of the European Organisation of Supreme Audit Authorities, EUROSAI, and head of the Contact Committee, i.e. a committee grouping heads of control bodies of all European Union countries, all of them At that time there were still 28 representatives of the European Union countries, saying that in Poland the local government works perfectly, that our success in spending European funds is primarily a consequence of how the local government works. What's bothering me? Well, in the case of different documents, you show your philosophy, you show that you know better. You create a National Plan for Reconstruction and you know better that rail transport is no longer worth spending money on, because green means of transport are only buses. I am convinced that, unfortunately, there is a political criterion in the background. Well, rail transport is a big city, they're not our locals, so let's bet on bus transport. I'm showing you this example because I don't like the philosophy in which the background I have such an irresistible impression. There are not substantive intentions, but political intentions. I encourage us to think together about how to ensure the sustainable development of Poland as a whole. It is not so that inhabitants of the smallest municipality in the Łódź Voivodeship are better than residents of 730 thousand Łódź. You showed your philosophy when you shared the money from the local and local initiatives fund. The irony of this situation is that as you entered the parties of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, among the criteria for the distribution of this money was found among others. a criterion on how many people will benefit from the project in the future. Neither the Minister nor anyone else from the government administration will explain to me, in which 1 thousand 914 inhabitants of the smallest municipality in the Łódź voivodeship are better than seven hundred and tens of thousands inhabitants of the city of Łódź. I know that you personally, as a citizen of Łódź, are ashamed of the fact that such a distribution of funds has taken place. So let us consider together how to avoid this happening again in the future. It is precisely that we have the belief that European funds are funds that serve the development of the whole of Poland, not just selected cities and municipalities. I am talking about this today, because later, at the next stages, we can think together about what solutions we can adopt so that the mechanisms we have created work in an undisputed, transparent, non-disputed way. We can introduce mechanisms that will not be concerned about whether the allocation of these measures is as we wish, or we can organise further meetings where we will wonder where the mistake has been made. I'll take that as a yes... Well, you said you felt it, in the sense of the Deputy Minister responsible for this department. I listened very carefully. The project is not feasible at this stage. So let's consider together how we can achieve this philosophy that we are talking about, the philosophy of dialogue between government and self-government, a dialogue in which everyone is equal, in which we do not favour the same. And that's the philosophy contained in this project. To us senators, it's the closest. It is a philosophy of sustainable development without a political criterion, which takes account of the real needs of the inhabitants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u405	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator George Wcisla.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u406	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! The old Polish proverb says: liars are not believed even when they speak the truth. And another proverb says, "Whoever burns once, the one blows cold." According to these proverbs, Poles have the right not to believe to the government that without the introduction of control mechanisms, EU funds will be distributed transparently, in accordance with clearly defined and publicly known principles. They have the right to do so, because at least two examples that I am going to give entitle me to do so. And these examples I would like to dedicate in particular to Minister Waldemar Bud, whose project we are taking today seems ridiculous or ridiculous to Poland. I wonder what he'll say after these examples. The first of these examples is the functioning of the Justice Fund, from which, as the audit has shown, NIK in 2018, out of PLN 385 million, just PLN 16 million was allocated to help victims of crime. But apart from the report, nothing happened. There's no investigation. No one has been arrested, and Ziobro is still a minister and manages a fund with a budget of PLN 400 million. And Rydzyk's father's foundation has already reached out to the fund's clients. That's justice. The second example is the Government Local Investment Fund. In the autumn of last year he was mentioned throughout Poland. It was pointed out that the only key to the decision to grant the funds could be indicated was the party card of local government officials, because the money was mostly sent to those cities and municipalities in which PiS ruled. Warsaw, Łódź, Gdańsk, Sopot, Gdynia, Poznań, Opole, Olsztyn, Elk, Elbląg They didn't get anything or almost nothing from this fund. In the autumn turn, in which 4 billion 350 thousand zlotys were distributed, these cities received almost no funds, and the entire amount called up by the committee was split up in six minutes. Municipalities in which Law and Justice rule and in which 9% live Poles received 20% from this fund measures. A municipalities where local government officials from the Civic Coalition rule and where 32% live Poles received 20% of the funds. Relations in favor of the PiS? Ten to one. Coincidence? There's no record of how that money was allocated. And the District Attorney's Office in Warsaw refused to investigate this case because the act did not contain any signs of criminal activity. The observers are already talking about the existence of Poland or about the Zero plus program. That's what they say about this country that PiS doesn't like. In this Poland there are mainly cities on the rights of the county, for which the so-called. operating surplus, i.e. investment capacity, dropped by 55% over 3 years. That's the red line. This is progress in these cities on the rights of the county. In these 66 cities there are 12 million Poles. One in three Poles lives in these cities, in those cities that PiS does not like. That's the kind of town I come from. And I don't want to collect any more evidence to prove the rule that Elbląg won't get anything because PiS doesn't like him. For the Fund for Reconstruction my voivodship reported 41 investments worth PLN 12 billion, and my city 6 projects worth PLN 700 million. Without guarantee of EU development and city funding, and the region will be stopped. That is why I want all cities, municipalities and regions to have equal access to public funds, including the EU. And these reasons, Minister, are the reasons why we are submitting this project. Not a sick imagination, but the fear that we will not receive EU funds is the reason why this agency is to be created. And that's why I'm among the authors of the law on the establishment of the Cohesion and Development Agency, and I'm not ashamed of it at all. This institution will participate in the decision-making process on what investments will be allocated to EU funds, including funds from the Fund for Reconstruction or from the Eastern Poland programme. Its composition will be in equal proportion with ministers representatives of local governments, who are just as important investors as the government, because local governments implement around 50% in Poland. public investment. This is therefore consistent with the actual participation of local authorities in investment projects and with the constitutional principle of subsidiarity. And if someone has been hurt by the facts that I have put forward here, which, in my opinion, justify the lack of confidence in power and the need to blow away, all the more so he should vote in favour of the creation of the Cohesion and Development Agency, because there is no better way for PiS to prove and the government to prove that EU funds want to separate fairly and fairly, in cooperation with local authorities, representatives of employers and both chambers of parliaments. I count on the full support of Senators and Senators for the initiative to set up a Cohesion and Development Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u407	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u408	Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to begin by thanking the initiator of this project about the Cohesion and Development Agency, Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski, who has put a great deal of work into making this bill in this form appear at the Senate meeting. It is my honor to be one of the signatories of this project alongside Senator Frankiewicz, Senator Kwiatkowski and Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka. I think this is proof that in good matters for Poland we are able to work harmoniously in the Senate, within this part of the Senate, which creates a Senate majority in this term. I want to be very clear that the government has been bragging about the scale of funds that are to come to Poland as part of the Fund for Reconstruction for many months, and it says that this is Marshall's new plan. And rightly, the government is bragging, because if these announcements are really carried out, the Fund for Reconstruction after the pandemic will be something of a new Marshall plan. But if he actually has this function of Marshall's historic plan to fulfill, then... Well, it's not just about getting as much money as possible, which is of course very important, but it's also about getting them used effectively in the distribution process. It is difficult to imagine within the administration which we have in the Republic of Poland, a better segment of it than the local government. In my opinion, if we really want to use these funds effectively for the development of Poland, it is our task to make the most of their distribution process, also as far as the Fund for Reconstruction is concerned. With regard to what Mr Kwiatkowski said... This is true, not only in the West, not only in the European Union, but also to the east of our borders, if there is some kind of reform that during this 30th anniversary She did the most, that's what I call it. Local government reform. There are dozens of examples for this. I think it is also a good time to mention Professor Jerzy Regulski, the creator of this reform, and to say very clearly that he is the person, the one who is the greatest success in political reforms after 1989, so to speak, programmed and implemented. Finally, I want to be very clear. 'Cause you know me from the honesty of my speech. I am not surprised at the criticism of this project by the Cohesion and Development Agency, by the government and, in particular, by Minister Buda, because there is nothing to hide, let's face it: one of the reasons for this project was how the local investment fund was divided. That's what all my previous speakers were talking about. Well, let us be clear and straightforward: one of the incentives for this project to be created was that these funds should be used well and effectively, but not only that, because this is also the intention of the European Fund for Reconstruction not to be de facto the electoral fund of Law and Justice. And we can speak differently with the Minister about the European Commission's intention to distribute funds from this fund, but it is certainly not the intention of the European Commission that this fund should serve the various political parties de facto as an electoral fund. Minister Buda is well aware of this, and I think that's why the Minister's reaction is so nervous. Once again, I thank Senator Ujazdowski for this initiative and I am convinced that we will accept this project in the Senate and that the circumstances in the Sejm will encourage the bill, despite the criticism of Minister Buda, to be adopted and, so to speak, in the form of an institution already established in the Polish legal order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u409	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u410	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Let us organize this statement according to how the questions were asked to ensure that the quality is consistent. Entity, i.e. Cohesion and Development Agency itself Incredibly undemocratically appointed, in 3 intermediate degrees. It's not even an intermediate choice, it's an intermediate choice to a cube. Even from the board of the agency itself, there are lessons to be learned. The board consists of representatives... ministers competent for individual matters, and then, as we read, eight members elected by the members of the local government committee of the Common Government and the Local Government. Well, that would be good, you'll pick the professionals. I'm talking about the self-government side. But here's an addition: from among them. The members of the local government committee will be elected from among themselves. That's a democracy! I don't know how many members there are, you'd have to read, prepare better, see if there's a dozen of them, and they'll pick that eight... 'Cause I don't think a hundred is. This is the summit of local democracy! Ladies and gentlemen, you've got to be joking about self-government. Because these people are supposed to decide not only about money, I'd call it, centrally divided, but also God forbid! . about those shared or to be divided by local authorities. This law is also a weakening of the powers of local governments It was also in one of the opinions. Those who are really involved in the distribution of European funds at the level of voivodships, marshals, see this. And here we don't know why people are called to do something else. Because the Joint Government and Local Government Commission has completely different competences They will go among themselves and manage what they have done so far, among others. Local governments. Well, that's democracy! The summit of democracy! Few people from this agency will practically answer to no one. No audit, no illusory surveillance, not political surveillance. For other bodies or bodies in Poland, supervision is either directly administrative or political. What's it like here? No. Well, apparently, the board members of the agency are to be appointed by way of a competition. Beautiful. But the first composition of the board is set up for a period of 2 years without recruitment. By the way, you don't know at what time. There are more such flowers, understatements in this text. Without responsibility, before God and history Unconstitutional, because it also mixes executive and legislative power... After all, so that by chance the Marshal of the Sejm or the Marshal of the Senate does not feel hurt, the Marshals may also be, that is to say, a person will be appointed as a member of the board of the agency. That's interesting. The fact that it would be chosen by a marshal from among Members and from among Senators is rather natural, but it can also be chosen from outside this group. Here, the scope of democracy in the case of central authorities is slightly broader. They're not coming from their own group. Without responsibility, unconstitutionally elected, in an unconstitutional composition... and to take over the powers of these bodies, these bodies, these institutions, which, after all, have been managing EU funds for more than 15 years. And that was in battle. I have been a councillor of the voivodship's sejm since 2006, so I know what these first contacts with the Union looked like. It wasn't cute. At the moment, however, we are indeed able to make use of EU funds. We're doing it fairly clean, fairly honest. We don't hear much about major issues; it's unlikely that OLAF has anything to do with us. And effectively, so effectively, that even simple people... well, not simple people, only our citizens see the effect of committed investments. By the way, there are plates on these investments. Why change that? We know the reason for this is some kind of regret. Firstly, it is regrettable that some local authorities have been mistreated at some of the stages of local investment programmes. I don't know if that's true. You just have to prove it, find it, and show the numbers. And secondly, unfortunately, there is such regret: it is a pity that we are not in charge; such money, and it is not us who will share it. But it's not like that. The division will be carried out here together with local governments. There are regional programs... We are now talking about the ordinary budget of the Union. So the regional operational programmes remain, the central programmes remain. Few of this, this third stage... that is not the third stage, but the third component, the Fund for Reconstruction, will be created on the basis of national programmes, reconstruction plans that are consulted and then initiated from the components that the local authorities have provided. As far as I remember, it's the local governments of the voivodships. In July of that year, they made proposals. 14 such programs came out of my voivodship. And of these programmes, a whole was created on a national scale, and now it is subject to consultation. And you at this point, instead of encouraging local authorities to consult, to participate in these consultations, instead of encouraging not only local authorities, not only local authorities, and even simple ordinary people, maybe in this way I will take this into account, you are inventing a tool, a tool that cannot be created that cannot be certified by the European Union. If anyone were malicious, he'd say that you were doing it so that no money would be accepted and absorbed by us. You're starting what was in 2003 and 2004, but you're doing it worse, much worse. Why? There's no need for that. There are some reasons I've told you before. What's next? This project will, of course, be passed by your votes, but no one reasonable He won't surrender, God forbid, to the work of the Sejm. You know why? 'Cause if someone from abroad finds out about this, it's gonna be hard to explain. [[Voice from the room: This is...]] Yes, of course, everything is transparent, except there can be different things on the banner and different people under different banners occur. It's true. There are different graphical characters, different passwords, also shouted. I'm summing up. You are trying to take the opportunity to decide on Poland's development for the government, for local governments, and also for the European Commission. We don't know this last case yet. A European reconstruction fund, consisting of national expansion plans... The tools for its formulation are not yet ratified, so for now he is uncertain. Well, this Fund for Reconstruction... You have been told here that it will be managed directly by the European Commission. There will be 3 stages, 3 degrees: the European Commission, another component of European funds, the government. We're talking about national programmes, operational programmes. And you want us to have an undemocratic and unconstitutional body in which a group of dozens or dozens of people chooses representatives from among themselves. And they're supposed to be called self-government representatives. I am not surprised that the Minister did not want to comment on this, but that does not mean that after the rejection of the project it should not be done in a positive way, it means serious, to deal with what we should do. This is a field for us. The institutions, the bodies that share EU money, are here, but we can set them targets. We can also check them out. Everything is to be done, but let's make sense of it, not with that text. There's nothing we can do about that. I don't know if an amendment has been tabled. No. In fact, it would be a good idea to file a motion to reject it in its entirety, to waste the committee's time dealing with it, even a motion to reject it. Really. Think about it and vote accordingly. The fields for cooperation will be much, much more can be changed, but not with this text. Really. It just can't be saved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u411	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Janusz Bubbler.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u412	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the beginning of my speech, I will ask a question. Would there be a legislative initiative of 28 Senators, I know that some senators did not just sign the proposal because they were sitting remotely at the time, and would there be a draft of this law if not for a number of negative examples of the allocation of funds from the state budget in recent years? I'll answer the question I just asked. Surely there would not be such an initiative, because there would be no need for such an initiative. For 12 years of my presidency in Kalisz, in 2002 and 2014, I did not meet with the allocation of EU funds, either from the state budget or from the budget of the Wielkopolska voivodship, which would raise doubts about the transparency or transparency of their division. Even when the decisions were not in the way of my self-government, I could always examine the criteria according to which the decisions were made, and in the end I could also appeal as president of the city against the results of the competition. What has happened in the last few months with the allocation of funds for investments in local roads, as well as the funds of the local investment fund or with the latest government proposal for the allocation of EU money, presumably, in the new financial perspective 2021 and 2027 for the Wielkopolska voivodship, must be of great concern on further pathological solutions leading to unsustainable development of municipalities, powiats, voivodships and the country. The task of the Senate and other constitutional institutions responsible for law-making is to seek the best institutional forms to ensure high standards of public policy in this area to ensure efficient, impartial, political, professional programming and management of Union funds. We are discussing the draft law on the Cohesion and Development Agency, according to which this new policy initiative of an impartial and professional centre as an institution is intended to provide the management function of certain funds of the European Union. Mr Senator, during committee meetings it has already been explained that regional operational programmes are not subject to this legislative proposal. This is a proposed solution and this is a system solution. The professional approach of the legislator of the legislative initiative to wide public consultations and to take into account almost all the comments made in the draft law presented today, making the draft law more sophisticated. I will, of course, vote in favour of him, but I am aware of what has sounded like in this Chamber. It's a rather problematic term. And it is problematic because the birth of this bill lasted several months. It wasn't easy. She showed up a few months ago and you had to work out this proposal with the experts. Mr Senator says that this initiative will not go through in the Sejm, not even enter the stand, but I hope that this will be the moment when everyone will think about how this EU money really does divide in a transparent way, leading to the country's sustainable development. Thank you for the vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u413	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u414	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! I would like to repeat Senator Libicki's argument. I believe that a project by the Cohesion and Development Agency would probably never have been created if it had not been a reaction to the Government Local Investment Fund, which was pathological. And I'll get to that in a minute. I would also like to say that I, at the committee meeting, commended Minister Buda for his preparation, because, indeed, this preparation can be seen. I've been a local governmentman for many years, too, and I can read what you said. And this is where I commended this preparation for the absorption of resources, but that's all there is to it. Unfortunately, what you have said, Minister, means that the democratically won elections entitle us to... And now, for what? The winning elections do not give you the right to own the state, Minister. And here, unfortunately, we disagree. Please also take into account that the National Recovery Fund or the National Reconstruction Plan, which Poland will implement, if money is actually sent to us, the European Union will account for the objectives achieved, if I am not mistaken. The problem is how we as Poland will come to these goals. And we, as former self-government or Polish self-government, want nothing more than a clear, clear and transparent algorithm of the distribution of funds that will flow to Poland. I will repeat once again: the pathology associated with the local investment fund raises huge concerns among Poles, among local government officials above all, that money will be divided in a non-transparent, discretionary way. And that's why there's a proposal for this bill. In relation to this fund of local investment, here many local government officials spoke on this subject... My city, too, Minister, got zero. I don't know why the local government doesn't know that either. Until now, when we were losing some competitions that were organized, for example regarding the Self-Government Road Fund or earlier, when other money was shared, you could look at and see why we didn't get the money. E.g. We didn't get enough points and no one blamed us for losing the money race. Here there are no answers to the questions asked, according to which criteria the money was divided, what was the way the money was divided, and why some got and others didn't. Once again, the local investment fund raised huge concerns, and he was probably the impulse to look for a solution so that this pathology would not repeat itself. It's like there were checks with the PiS logo. It was incomprehensible, incomprehensible, shared public money, actually state money was distributed with the logo of the Party of Law and Justice. What right? I don't get it. And these fears have caused the idea to introduce a body that will, however, control the distribution of this money, so that no matter who will rule, because maybe the power will change, because maybe next year there will be elections, no matter who is in power, no matter who the distribution of money is transparent and no controversy. By the way, I would also like to refer to the words of Senator Swede, who several times referred to the Silesian Association of Municipalities and Districts. I have worked for many years with the Silesian Association of Municipalities and Districts and I am sure that using a fragment of this opinion from the Silesian Association of Municipalities and Districts will not be very pleased by local authorities who had completely different intentions and really support this project, and they are not against it. And you're just using a few sentences to just use the community union to find arguments against this project. Well, I do not hide that I was deeply appalled by Senator Czerwinski's statement, which includes. He's using words like that that say someone's gonna be in this agency after the contest. Come on, Senator, who's talking? What competitions are held today for positions across the country? After all, it was your group that closed the competitions, these competitions are gone, and people go to various agencies, companies according to which key. So, who's talking, Mr. Senator? If this is a contentious issue, it is still possible to discuss it and I think it is possible to amend it if you think that something can be changed so that people do not go there after being careful. You're talking about democracy, you're talking about the summit of democracy. But why don't you come up with a list of nominees who have really high positions without any competitions? I've just read that the minister who went to the Treasury company earns $50,000 a month. What contest did she come to this company after, Mr. Senator? It is you who choose people from among yourselves, and you believe that local government officials who have really shown that they manage the country and their little homelands well... You're accusing them of some pathology, some bad intentions. You're talking about this project being unconstitutional. I wonder how you're going to vote on a bill that, if I'm not mistaken, will be prosecuted tomorrow, connected to the Ministry of Justice... not the Ministry of Justice, just... This is a bill. She's gonna be here tomorrow. Which is also unconstitutional. We'll see how you vote. After all, many laws that were being tried in the Senate raised constitutional doubts, and yet you raised your hand and voted in favour. This Supreme Court bill will be processed tomorrow. According to the Constitutionalists, some of its records are unconstitutional. Well, we'll see how you vote. You said, we're not in charge, we're looking for solutions, but in the end, democracy, so we should keep quiet... Mr. Senator, I've never been in any governing option, never, ever acting as a self-government officer for many years. I've been trying for a lot of money, I've been doing a lot of projects that I've been doing, and I'm going to say again: this pathology, as it is now, has never happened. And once again, I'm going to go back to the local investment fund and those checks with the PiS logo that were handed out... That's what I, as a former self-government officer of the state, wouldn't forgive. And a word at the end. I believe that this project, even if it is controversial, is heading in the right direction. The objectives of the Cohesion and Development Agency are transparency, honesty, justice and efficiency. If there are objections I'm talking to senators who think it's best to throw this project in the trash, not to procedate it at all, because there's no way he's gonna make it through the Sejm. You're the one who's making the amendments. Follow this principle, too, that in Poland, which is governed by law and justice, with the distribution of EU money, our money, common, because it is not your money, nor ours, but common, the principle of transparency, fairness, justice and efficiency should apply. For preparing this bill, I bow low to Senator Ujazdowski and thank you. I hope that this bill will continue to be processed, and I hope that the Sejm will lean on this draft. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u415	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u416	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I usually take criticism quite humbly, but I am surprised by this extremely violent reaction to the proposal that I take as a body. For me this is not an occasional movement, which results from the distribution of some resources of the state budget, although this is what practically all my previous speakers refer to. I'm gonna do it, too, because it's symptomatic. You can say that this project came too late or too early and probably in one and in the other it will be right. I humbly accept the Minister's allegations that this cannot be implemented in this perspective. If this is to be a change that will prevent unfair, unfair, non-transparent spending of EU funds, then it can be done not in such a fast way as to make it very good, well-evaluated by all projects. He makes sense not only with such a relationship the power of the opposition, but also in the future, when these relationships may change. Enabling self-government to discuss and decide on the spending of European funds makes the utmost sense, because a very large percentage of this EU money is later consumed by the self-government. This self-government is well rated in this courtroom. This was said when EU funds were spent And by the inhabitants of Poland it is surprisingly highly rated. That's about 74%. positive opinions. No other public authority can even dream of it. Calling on what happened to the National Reconstruction Programme is a complete abuse. In fact, in the middle of last year, local governments made their proposals, but in what has appeared and is now being consulted, none of these proposals were found. Therefore, even the EU requirement for this National Reconstruction Programme to be done in consultation with local authorities has not been met at all. Some of the arguments are completely absurd. Such attention to the representation of the local government on this board of agencies reveals a complete lack of orientation in this area. Namely, in the committee of the common government and local government there are representatives of organizations of national local government, which bring together many hundreds of entities, units of local government. Most of these hundreds of entities are concentrated. There are different numbers. And there are hierarchical elections of representatives on the joint committee, and the person who is there must be elected by these wojews, mayors, presidents, elders or marshals and have full confidence in these people. That's how it works. And this committee on the local government side is doing a great job. There's no tension there. No one's questioning this representation. Regional operational programmes are already approved by the relevant competent ministries, so that it is not so that here the local government still wants to own something, and without control, for example. carry out regional operational programmes. So that talking about losses to voivodships in the amount of PLN 7 billion is a cosmos at all. Referring to the opinion of Gliwice and the Silesian Association of Municipalities and Districts, I am particularly moved by the fact that I am myself from Gliwice. Of course, I know the opinion and the Silesian union, which I presided over for a very long time, and the city in which I held the office of President. And this is actually abuse because this opinion is positive. There are doubts, as a result of a misunderstanding that has already been explained, and this is what Senator Ujazdowski said. The point of democracy is what happened with the distribution of money from this often invoked fund, the local investment fund, in the Kłodzki district. I think that at least some of you will say a lot. I already mentioned it. 14 municipalities in County 6 got the money from this fund, the rest didn't. And they were received practically exclusively by those who signed a cooperation agreement with the Law and Justice. One of the other communes got the money, but it was trace amounts to those municipalities that signed the agreement. This is the height of democracy. It's so shameless to me, it's so insolent that... I think that after such experiences, everyone who looks at it can view it as a foretaste of what's going to happen with much more EU money. And if this is the case with EU money, OLAF will definitely have something to do and these opinions about the Polish spending of European funds will no longer be so good. This is not the only example. This was where the others were given. And nothing will change any examples that also cities ruled by presidents from another option got some money, because after the analysis carried out by scientists, professors of Swaniewicz, Sixło, there is no doubt that it was an unfair distribution of money from the funds of the state budget. In fact, I've been in government since the beginning, and I've never seen anything like it. It's just insolence, what happened there. Talking about this agency has a completely different dimension after these experiences. On your part, the representatives of the PiS, in this situation, I would expect humility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u417	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. Second appearance, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u418	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm sorry... Senator Czerwiński announced that he would not file any motion, but filed a motion to reject the bill. I, of course, formally make a request to appoint a committee meeting to prepare a report. The joint committees are ready to deal with this project today, 15 minutes after the end of the session. Since this request has been made, we must convene a committee meeting. By showing that we absolutely listen to all voices, opinions, I submit two proposals myself. In the context of increasing transparency on recruitment matters, I propose an amendment to the article. 23 add Article. 23a stating that information on recruitment for the post of President and other members of the Management Board and the recruitment of candidates for employment at the Agency's post shall be published by placing a notice in a place which is widely available at the Agency's seat and on the agency's public information newsletter. In order to increase the transparency of actions and to adapt the entries to the final nomenclature, the nomenclature which is contained in Article. 27, I propose replacing the words "European Union package' with "COVID-19' by "Instrument for Reconstruction and Enhancing Immunity'. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, I would like to say that I am really drawing on the intentions of those who are preparing the distribution of money today from a new budgetary perspective, from the Instrument for Reconstruction and Improvement of Immunity, as well as from the budgetary resources that are to be divided into projects implemented by the local government... This actual verification will be carried out every day, looking at what criteria and whether, according to transparent principles, this money is shared. As Senator Frankiewicz said, the way in which the National Reconstruction Plan was consulted today is unfortunately of the greatest concern, because political criteria are once again included. What, if not political, criteria were followed by authors who wrote that in order to promote low-carbon or non-carbon transport... There were no possibilities to finance rail transport, least incriminating, ecological, or trams. The only criterion could be that the tram network is either in large cities or in large agglomerations, e.g. in Silesia. And it just so happens that in urban centres Law and Justice get low support. It's hard to see another mechanism here. This bill is a project designed to give thought to all those who did not hesitate to use public money, money from the state budget to achieve political goals. We must remember one thing: the money that is granted to us in the new perspective or in the instrument of reconstruction and development is supervised in terms of the regularity of their spending. The lack of transparent, clear, transparent procedures for the transfer of funds and the allocation of funds may be a prerequisite for halting their payment and even for the loss of these funds by Poland. May the Pole be wise before harm, not after injury. This is served by the draft legislative initiative that was prepared in the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u419	Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski:
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u420	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will not answer to Mr Bud's ministers. Well, these are cases known from history: young age, fast promotion And limited control of the word. I will refer to what Senator Czerwiński was talking about because of respect for every senator and respect for the Senate as a whole. First of all, correction. In this draft law there is an intermediate institution, in this draft law there is no taking away the management of regional operational programmes from regional governments. This project is so designed that the new institution certainly does not take away the competences of the European Commission, which are still undefined because the government has not completed negotiations on the national operational programme. The key is the real choice we have, and this is the choice that will also result in the United Right Senators. This is the choice between cooperation and arbitraryness. Because rejecting this idea combined with having no other idea for impartiality and objectivity really means arbitraryness, the idea of using it without public debate, without control mechanisms. I would like to say one thing: that is not only the local governments and the political opposition in the Sejm that will be affected. This will affect all citizens, including parliamentarians of Law and Justice who do not participate actively in the government. You will only be able to watch this process. I'm not being literal. During the budget debate, I asked the Minister of Finance or rather the representative of the Minister of Finance, what is the forecast for public finances related to the use of such gigantic European funds. There was no answer. There's no motion to ratify the decision, you don't even know it. Negotiations on the national operational programme are not completed. So this arbitraryness will all be affected, including the Senate as an institution, including the Senators of Law and Justice. We have a real choice. We are also ready to discuss other forms of objectivity of this task, other forms of impartiality, only that no one has proposed them, to the detriment of everyone, including the Senate as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u421	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senators of Gorgon-Komor, Sweden and Gromek made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that Senator Jerzy Czerwiński and Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski have submitted legislative proposals in writing. The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate directs the bill to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski has requested that the committees set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the bill still at this meeting. If I do not hear the votes of objection, I will find that the Senate has accepted the motion. I can't hear you objecting. Messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u422	Message number one. Joint meeting of the 3rd Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union On the examination of the proposals submitted to the draft law on the Cohesion and Development Agency, 15 minutes after the announcement of a break in the plenary room will take place. Message two. The meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the examination of applications submitted at the twenty-second Senate meeting to the Act amending the Act on National Population and Housing census in 2021 will be held today, i.e. On 24 March, in the plenary room 25 minutes after the adjournment of the session. Message three. The joint meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the examination of applications submitted at the twenty-second Senate meeting to the Act amending the excise duty Act and certain other laws will take place on 25 March, Thursday at 8.15 p.m. in rooms 176 and 179. Message four. The joint meeting of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the examination of the applications submitted at the twenty-second Senate meeting to the Act amending the Law amending the Law on Hunting Law and certain other laws will take place on 25 March at 8.50 in room 176. Message five. The joint meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on the Environment on the examination of the requests submitted at the twenty-second Senate meeting to the Act amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments and some other acts will take place on 25 March at 10.15 in room 182. Message six. The meeting of the Infrastructure Committee on the examination of the requests submitted at the twenty-second Senate meeting to the Law amending the Road Traffic Law and some other laws will take place tomorrow, 25 March, at 8.00 p.m. in room 182. Message seven. The meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of proposals for the Act amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons and some other laws will take place tomorrow at 9.15 a.m. in room 182. Message eight. The joint meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment on the review of the Act amending the Energy Efficiency Act and some other laws will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m. in room 176. Message nine. A meeting of the Extraordinary Commission on Climate Affairs on the review of the Act amending the Energy Efficiency Act and some other laws will be held tomorrow at 10 a.m. in room 176. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u423	Senator Kwiatkowski?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u424	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In view of this first meeting, which is 15 minutes after the end of the sitting, 3 committees, local government, legislative and foreign affairs, I would like to say that the links for senators who wish to participate in a remote sitting have been sent out in the manner that is customary to be adopted, i.e. to those e-mail addresses for which they are always given the opportunity to participate technically in committee meetings.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-24-senat-22-1.u425	Thank you very much. I'm declaring a recess by 11 o'clock tomorrow. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 22 minutes 07]]
