ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u1	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 9; - Public Finance together with the Infrastructure Commission - h.m. 9.30 a.m.; - Economics and Development in cooperation with the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development - h.m. 10; - Public Finance - hour. 11; - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 12; - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 13.30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u2	Thank you very much, madam. It's nice to be in the bureau together. [[Nice.]] We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the conduct of the agricultural trade by farmers (print No 1516). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Simon Giżyński to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister. [[Game in the O.R.]] Who talks like that?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u3	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I am pleased to present to you the draft law, which is short, expressive, concrete, most obvious and therefore uncontroversial. We are working in this law on agricultural retail trade to adapt statutory realities to the needs of farmers, to the increasingly higher standards required on the market, and to provide farmers with more profits, more certainty and opportunities for action. I think the whole thing comes down to three very important points, intentions realized in these new records. In the first one, you can say that the whole country, the whole Poland is available to every producer operating in the framework of agricultural retail trade. He can look anywhere for his audience. And here it doesn't matter if he's going to sell directly for so-called. the final customer, or he'll be using canteens, shops or restaurants. So far, certain specific limits have been in place, and they have been completely withdrawn in terms of sales to the final customer. These limits just don't exist anymore. On the other hand, for some obvious reasons, limits have been maintained when supplying RHD products from canteens, shops or restaurants. Of course, information about what products are concerned, what are the limits, can be derived from regulations that are an integral part of the law here. For example, for a certain association and reality, one can say that 2300 kg of meat can be sold to one restaurant each year. The very important and expected by farmers, and at the same time the pro-market behaviour, which also gives farmers the opportunity to receive, of course, more income, and this is the main objective, the first objective, is a significant increase in the limit, from 40,000. up to 100,000, 2%, which is relatively low also, turnover tax. I want to communicate to the High House - this has some consequences, because in such a situation we have been turning around and turning around - that the bill has been notified to the European Commission and the Member States of the European Union. In accordance with the applicable procedure, comments may run until 8 November 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, the final point concerns such a hope that these conditions which we create, I think, with the support of the High House, due to the nature of the law, its objectives and its very clear communication with the real needs of the market and farmers will be very good. And that is the goal that we will come to a situation where farmers in the framework of agricultural retail trade will compete among themselves. This is, of course, a fact in some sense, because in the whole operation there is also a very important qualitative aspect that consumers count on the highest quality food. This is happening, but in the area of the distribution of the highest quality food it will be even better if there is already real competition between producers. I think we're going with you, with the High House in exactly this direction. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u4	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mr Fryderyk Kapinos from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u5	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! I have the great honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the government draft law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the conduct of agricultural retail trade by farmers, print No 1516. The contested bill is primarily the implementation of an initiative named: the release of agricultural retail trade contained in the government document of Poland. The Law and Justice Government is therefore taking another step towards making even better use of the 2017 tool dedicated to farmers, a tool which is very popular among them, as evidenced by the fact that in our country today, this form of food sales is being carried out by several thousand farmers. The draft law proposes amendments to the Food Safety and Nutrition Act and the Personal Income Tax Act, which aim, first, to enlarge the area in which supplies of food produced in the framework of agricultural retail trade can be carried out to retail establishments for the final consumer, such as. restaurants, cafés, shops - to the territory of the whole country. Currently, this area includes the voivodship in which food production is carried out within the RHD, as well as districts or cities established in the voivodship or seymous of neighbouring voivodships with this voivodship, while the sale of final consumers within the framework of this activity will be possible as to date throughout the country. This will enable farmers to expand the market for food produced while meeting food safety requirements. Secondly, the draft law proposes the abolition of the maximum limits for food sold in the framework of the agricultural retail trade to final consumers and leaving these limits only for supplies to retail establishments for final consumers. This option will enable farmers to increase their sales of food to consumers, reduce the administrative burden of keeping records, and also allow farmers to make better use of the possibilities of tax exemptions introduced by the proposed law. Thirdly, the draft law provides for an additional exemption of the producer from personal income tax, i.e. increase from 40,000. Up to 100,000. zł amounts of revenue from sales processed in a manner other than industrial plant and animal products, except processed plant and animal products obtained within the framework of special agricultural production divisions and products subject to excise duty on the basis of separate provisions exempt from income tax. The adoption of such a solution will reduce the number of persons required to make a written statement on the choice of flat-rate taxation from the revenues recorded for the tax year in question and, on the other hand, will enable agricultural producers to obtain higher income from sales of processed products other than industrial plant and animal products. In conclusion, the proposed changes should result in increased opportunities for farmers to develop their agricultural retail business by extending the range of food consumers, e.g. shops, restaurants, cafés and other such establishments from all over the country, and the introduction of unlimited food sales to consumers, and this should contribute to an increase in the incomes of agricultural producers. This draft law is subject to the procedure of notification to the European Commission and the Member States of the European Union, and therefore ultimately the scope of the proposed amendments will also depend on the opinion of the European Commission and the Member States of the European Union notified under this procedure. The draft was notified for notification on 5 August 2021 and the mandatory deadline for deferring the adoption of the notified project set by the European Commission is 8 November 2021. Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! I would like to inform you that the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support the Government's bill to amend certain laws (the Bell) in order to make it easier for farmers to carry out their agricultural retail trade in the course of parliamentary work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u6	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u7	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Before I proceed to the assessment of the revised rules on agricultural retail trade, a few corrections first. First, contrary to what is stated in the explanatory memorandum of the law, the rules do not follow - I quote - from the government document of Poland Load. As far as I know, the government of the Polish Load, which is the list of passwords and pretty pictures - this is what this document looks like - until today it has not officially accepted as its program, i.e. it is not a government program. And if otherwise, please specify the date of the meeting of the Council of Ministers, on which the Polish Load party program was adopted as an official government program. Finally, stop littering the writings of state officials with terms such as: government program Polski Ład. Secondly, listening to the rapporteur from Law and Justice, it may be felt that the proposed changes will solve the problems of Polish agriculture and that the village will become a land of milk and honey. That is not going to happen. What does that tell you? The previous reductions in agricultural retail trade have benefited from government data of 12 876 agricultural holdings. And how many households do we have in Poland receiving subsidies? Let me remind you, 130,000. So the benefit of agricultural retail trade is less than 1%. agricultural holdings. It's worth remembering. Today, food production in the framework of agricultural retail trade with a value of up to 40,000. PLN is exempt from personal income tax. The amendment proposes to increase this amount to 100,000. zł. And we're like, "Where's the money coming from? Are there any expert reports, opinions that confirm that this is going to be the amount of 100,000? Evil? Or maybe 200,000. Evil? We would like to know if such analyses in the Ministry are developed and be sure. It is known that the amounts of 40,000. PLN you cannot maintain because you plan to exempt from paying PIT tax all Polish citizens with annual income of up to 30,000. zł. So leaving the 40,000. PLN for farmers in the case of agricultural retail trade would be grotesque. This limit must be raised - also due to galloping inflation. The statistics show that farmers are not willing to exceed their income from agricultural retail trade at 40 000. PLN and payment of 2% flat-rate tax. In 2017, only 106 agricultural producers declared revenues from RHD above 40 000. PLN, in 2018 it was 122 units and in 2019153 producers. Why so little? In our opinion, the answer is simple: because farmers do not want to deal with your bureaucracy. Do something about it, and then I'm sure the issues of agricultural retail will go up. You estimate an increase of 40 grand. PLN to 100,000. PLN will reduce annual revenue to the budget by PLN 15.5 million. You'll admit it's a small amount. The National Agricultural Support Centre itself spends more annually on bonuses and prizes, thirteens, etc. Here we have a real miracle - for a little more than PLN 15 million the government of Law and Justice will cure Polish agriculture. Why do I say that? Because in your Polish Order, the release of retail trade, that is, this law discussed by us here and now, is mentioned as one of the three most important changes that will take place in Polish agriculture. The first proposed is the Agricultural Code, the second is the excise duty refund, and the third is the draft law on agricultural retail trade. Interested I refer to p. 78 of the Polish Order. And we ask: Where is the effective strategy against ASF, where the profitability of agricultural production, where the reconstruction of the whole pig sector, where the food holding, where the common insurance? Not to mention equalising direct payments to French or German levels. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We are no longer talking about issues related to increasing agricultural spending to 3% GDP. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition proposes that this bill be directed to further legislative work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u8	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Come in, ma'am. [[That bad, how good is that?]] [[Thank you for promoting the Polish Order. Thanks a lot. Really.]] [[Voice from the room: Party program program of the nation's program.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] [[Voice from the hall: Why do you call him a government like it's not a government program?]] [[A voice from the House: The Council of Ministers accepted this?]] [[Voice from the room:...accepted.]] [[Voice from the room: When? When?]] All right, look, we've already talked. Miss, we've had a chat. Come on in, we'll have a discussion in a minute. Mrs Anita Sowińska, parliamentary club of the Left. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u9	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Left parliamentary club vis-à-vis the government draft law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the conduct of the agricultural retail trade by farmers, print No 1516. First, let me briefly explain what the agricultural retail trade is, in short, the RHD. It is a specific form of retail trade dedicated to farmers, which has been operating in Poland since 2017. The basic condition for RHD is that the food must come wholly or partly from its own cultivation, breeding or farming. The agricultural retail trade is favourable due to tax exemptions. At present, farmers are exempt from income tax up to 40 000. zł. It is possible to produce, including small-scale food processing, and to dispose of it to final consumers, as well as to local retail establishments for final consumer. In the context of agricultural retail trade, raw materials of plant origin may be sold, e.g. cereals, vegetables, fruit, herbs and animals, e.g. milk, cream, eggs, honey, but also processed food, e.g. oils, breads, jams, juices, preparations, as well as the sale and preparation of meals such as dumplings, hooves, Silesian noodles, dumplings, etc., etc. This draft law contains some key changes in the functioning of agricultural retail trade. Firstly, the draft law proposes the complete abolition of the maximum food limits for the sale of final consumers and leaving only those limits which relate to supplies to retail establishments, e.g. to shops, restaurants or cafés. The second amendment consists of an increase in the cap on sales income exempt from personal income tax: from 40 000. Up to 100,000. zł. Another change is to increase the area where food supplies can be made to retail establishments, such as shops, restaurants and cafés, to the territory of the country as a whole. Currently, this area is limited to voivodship and powiats or cities adjacent to voivodship. The last amendment is to change the definition of the concept of agricultural retail trade. If the product consists of one ingredient, the definition remains unchanged. The change occurs in the case of foods containing more than one ingredient, e.g. processed meat products, dairy products, but also prepared meals. The proposed amendment is that food should contain at least one ingredient wholly derived from its own cultivation, breeding or rearing. As a general rule, the idea of simplifying the sale of agricultural foetuses is needed. We should strive to reduce supply chains and to ensure that farmers achieve higher wages for their work, capital and risks. This direction is in line with the European Green Deal policy, from field to table, although it should be noted that EU countries are proposing different solutions. However, I would like to point out that the amendments proposed in the Act also involve certain risks. The first concerns state finances, e.g. The abolition of maximum food limits may give rise to the risk that some foods will be sold unfairly, without tax, not only to final consumers, but also to shops, restaurants and cafés. The revision of the definition of agricultural retail trade also seems too far-reaching. What, for example? If there are only Polish radishes in the prepared meal, and the rest are rice from China, soy from the USA, meat and tomatoes from Spain? According to this definition, this meal can be sold without tax. I hope that bill wasn't written under anyone. I want to assume the applicant's good intentions and hope to improve it in the legislative process. At the same time, I ask the Minister to make a fair comparison on what legal solutions exist in other countries of the European Union so that we can make a good decision at the committee meeting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u10	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mirosław Maliszewski from the Parliamentary Club... Exactly - Coalition Poland. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u11	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to strengthen this voice, which has just sounded that agricultural retail trade, previously called direct sales, is not an action which has a chance on a large scale to heal Polish agriculture. Because it only applies to small or very small farms and specifically located farms, e.g. near large urban agglomerations, and especially near tourist destinations. Such a model of direct sales of agricultural retail trade has been observed for several years or even longer in Western European countries. But even if it concerns 1% farms, it is worth leaning over them and clarifying the rules that, say, give them a chance to earn additional income or give them a chance to raise their income, because they will be able to process their products. Let's get one more thing straight. The agricultural retail trade should relate - and is justified only in this case - to products processed at home or under farm conditions, because the sale of unprocessed products today is possible from the farm directly to all customers who are on the market, regardless of their size, potential, economic strength. And it is not subject to income tax or turnover tax, as it is in this case. This concerns only the possibility of processing products at farm level. Why is there such a small interest in this? Why only less than 1% farms in Poland carry out agricultural retail trade? For the reasons I mentioned earlier. No medium-sized or large farm is able to manage its production in the framework of agricultural retail trade. Let us lie to certain theories that appear in critical moments, e.g. with regard to soft fruit producers, saying that if all the gooseberries from their farm were processed in the framework of agricultural retail trade and sold on the wholesale market to a restaurant, to a nearby store, they would have achieved two, three, five times more production income. Because a farm producing up to 10 t of gooseberry is not able to process these 10 t in the agricultural retail sector, and it is completely unable to sell these 10 t in a year. Where? There is no recipient who would be able to buy such a specific product in such a quantity. Now about the facilitations that appear in this bill. They are partly illusory, partly have a chance of practical application. I am also surprised that in the document, which is to be a strategic document relating to the Polish village, the action addressed to less than 1% holdings shall be listed as priority. It will not affect the situation of Polish agriculture. Just as it will not affect the increase in excise duty by PLN 10 per hectare. These are activities of marginal importance for Polish agriculture. Today, time requires that we take more radical action than small ones. But for now, a few sentences about the solutions that are. Indeed, an increase in the tax exemption limit from 40,000. Up to 100,000. For many, it can be an opportunity. For now, however, few were interested in this, because indeed the number of those who already have a chance to exceed the revenue from sales of RHD products above 40 thousand is very small in Poland. It's as if he believes the words I just said. However, if we combined this with the possibility of selling outside the voivodship where the farm is located, and maybe carried out other statutory actions that would force large customers of products to reach for the local product, the product of local origin - such solutions are in some countries of the European Union, for example. in France - we could give consumers greater interest, but also, for example. trade networks of products produced in the framework of agricultural retail trade. Just raising the amount will do little, because today it is not a restriction, so it is worth talking about it all the time, it is worth proposing positive solutions. I remember the first debates that took place in this House several years ago about how farmers could take over at least a piece of this processing market and have their product in processed form, i.e. gain added value, thereby increasing profitability and diversifying this profitability. At the time we talked, faced resistance from many environments, trade networks, processors, who so far had this market monopolized, finally the Ministry of Finance. They're the ones who've been blocking these solutions. This today's proposal to raise from $40,000. PLN to 100,000. PLN for the Ministry of Finance (the bell) is neutral because, as we know, this tax collection is not available. Nevertheless, as a club of the Polish Coalition, we declare our support for this project. Of course, we will make proposals for changes in the near future, also in the form of draft laws, for example. the production of tinctures, distillates and other alcohol-based products is worthwhile in the agricultural retail trade on the basis of fruit. [[And I like that.]] This is what everyone likes, Mr, me too, and especially Polish consumers. And the question is: Why is there so little change in this area, and why are we giving ourselves up to a monopoly here, and at this point we are unable to create an opportunity for farmers to gain additional income? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u12	Thank you for this vote, Mr PSL. Mr Michał Urbaniak, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u13	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Direct sales to farmers are a response to many of the problems of small farms, which can thus sell small-scale food they produce. Eliminating intermediaries will benefit both the manufacturer and the consumer, who is able to circumvent this entire supply chain, buy good quality products and in a wide range. The most important element is usually the issue of preferential and simplified forms of taxation. It appears here that this form and the amount of income can encourage farmers to use it. The question is, are you sure this is going to happen, because if you consider history, what is today, you can see that despite the 40,000. There is still a very small part of all farmers who benefit from this agricultural retail trade. We also remember that this is a drop in the sea of needs. A raise of 40 grand. PLN to 100,000. zł can actually encourage some farmers. That's a plus. On the other hand, our doubts arise, which says that the Act changes supervision of the production and disposal of food in the framework of agricultural retail trade to official control here carried out by the health and veterinary inspection. In this discussion and during the consultation, we were informed that many farmers were afraid that this control would be much more restrictive than such supervision at times where there was actually a problem. Let's not scare farmers with some special checks, they already have a lot of them at different levels and in different activities. Therefore, we will certainly also want to improve this during the work of the committee, because we believe that this is not such a broad form of activity as to require restrictive controls. The natural thing is that every farmer who produces something that processes certain products wants to give a quality product because it's his brand, he signs it with his name. Ladies and gentlemen! We will essentially support this project, of course, with the comments that we will also make, although, as I said at the beginning, it will probably not bring a radical change, but there is always something positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u14	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u15	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 a position on the government draft law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the conduct of agricultural retail trade by farmers. Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of the draft law declared by the government is to facilitate agricultural retail trade. The project proposes a number of changes. Firstly, it is about changing the definition of agricultural retail trade in order to clarify the origin of the ingredients used in production in this form of activity. The project also leads to an extension of the area where food supplies can be carried out. Since the adoption of this project it will be possible to do so throughout Poland. The Act also aims to clarify the origin of ingredients used in food production in the framework of agricultural retail trade, and the subsequent amendment is a modification of the statutory authorisation to issue a regulation on the possession of a maximum quantity of food disposed of in the framework of agricultural retail trade, which is intended to result in the abolition of limits on products supplied under that form of activity. The proposed law also proposes an increase of 40 000. PLN to 100,000. zł amounts of sales revenue which are exempt from income tax. These are, of course, changes in the right direction in general, but I cannot resist such an impression that the Minister was just talking about this project as if it were the Holy Grail of agriculture. However, only 12 876 farms, a relatively small group of farmers, benefited from agricultural retail trade. The cost of these changes, which the government proposes, is only PLN 15.5 million, although only the Government of Law and Justice itself, I assume, probably spends millions of zlotys on catering in its administration. Secondly, there are doubts as to whether such a broad definition will not lead to a situation in which, without tax, products from outside our borders will also be sold. And that's a pretty big question. Thirdly - I think this is the most important thing - contrary to what it seems to have been the words of the Minister, this project will not cure the problems of Polish agriculture at all. Crazy expensive, high inflation, but also the lack of courageous action in agricultural matters are the things for which the government is responsible and which are killing Polish farmers today. The project doesn't solve these problems. But, as I said, these solutions, although narrow, go in the right direction (the bell), so on behalf of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 I request that the project be submitted to the committee for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u16	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15. [[I'm on my way.]] I can see that. Take care of yourself. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u17	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Circle15 - Direct Democracy I have the honour to present the position of the circle in relation to the government draft law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the conduct of agricultural retail trade by farmers. At the beginning - I am very pleased that we have already started to process the laws that have been prepared within the framework of the Polish Agricultural Deal. The changes in this law are very desirable by farmers, because the current solutions, as we have heard, are insufficient, because farmers do not have enough to do so at the moment. I will also remind you that already in the last term of office the Kukiz Parliamentary Club15 has prepared a law on direct sales, and I will add that some elements have appeared here again in this law. It's a pity it's so late, but it's a good thing they are. These are not all the solutions that should be included in this bill. I hope we're still amending this bill. But, more importantly, this law is complementary to another law that we will proceed with at the next meeting of the Sejm, which is the law that opens cities to agricultural retail trade, so that farmers have a good place to sell their products and consumers have access to tasty, healthy agricultural products. Going further - there are many solutions for agriculture within the framework of the Polish Rural Deal. This is one of the elements, but it is a very important element that diversifys farmers' incomes. The idea is for farmers to stop earning only in the manufacture of basic products and start earning on other elements of the chain, i.e. where there is greater added value, which is precisely in processing and trade. I think that the numbers that have been reported, the small number of farmers who have so far benefited from the possibility of agricultural retail trade, will now significantly increase with the whole package of these solutions, and consumers will generally benefit from the possibility of buying food directly from farmers, because it is raw food, food from the highest quality products. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u18	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get to the questions. I set the time limit for the question - 1 minute. 22 people came forward to ask questions. Mirosław Suchoń, Member of Poland 2050, as always the first. You're welcome, sir. [[Not as usual, Mr. Marshal, but...]] Well, I see you're fighting for the number of appearances in the Seym.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u19	Rather, I try to speak on important and crucial issues from the point of view of our state and citizens... But of course in a wise and reasonable way, absolutely. I'm not questioning that. ...and this case too, Mr. Marshal, is crucial. It is worth remembering that we need such strong support for farmers, also because it is healthy food, it is usually a food that has a good effect on the functioning of the body. Therefore, Minister, I have a question. These changes, as I said in the club speech, are going in the right direction, but a rather small group of farms are actually taking advantage of this possibility. What further action does the government intend to take to make this more widespread, this direct sale to consumers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u20	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u21	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! If the agricultural economy does not improve, Polish agriculture will work from 1 to 3% of the population in a moment. Therefore, any change that can help bring out the crisis of the Polish village is worth paying attention, but unfortunately not such proposals. I was talking about this project with a farmer who confirmed what we really see, that food production in the country is primarily about passionate people. These are few farmers from small farms who want not only to keep their farm, their wealth, but they have first and foremost knowledge, an idea for innovation and a change in their business profile. The project is discussed, among others. clarifies the provision that agricultural retail trade allows the production of food containing at least one ingredient derived from own cultivation, farming or farming. My caller asks if farmers can simply be allowed to produce whole food (the bell) from ingredients from other neighboring farms. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u22	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Boris, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. Please, Peter.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u23	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It would seem that these issues are fundamental. It is about how to increase the retail trade of farmers so that 12 000 do not. Polish farmers from 1100 thousand. farms, but hundreds of thousands of Polish farmers were able to produce food and in this really very short chain supply Polish citizens, especially citizens living in cities. What does that mean? This means that retail trade does not work at all today. We can increase the limits to 100,000. tax-free amounts, we can reduce bureaucracy, increase or reduce what concerns food quality protection, but if we do not find a way to create mechanisms so that Polish farmers can directly supply millions of Polish cities, we will in no way solve (the bell) the problem systemically. Let us look for such solutions, not trivial or incomplete solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u24	Thank you. Mr Paweł Hreniak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u25	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Agricultural retail is a form of sales that has been in operation since 2017. [[A lot earlier.]] It was introduced by Law and Justice. [[No, you didn't, before.]] [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] In this formula, Member. Today, after several years of observation, this original model is modified, among others. just by extending the possible market to the whole country. The current restriction of sales to the voivodship area was one of the barriers for the farmer. And my question is, where does the Ministry of Agriculture see other barriers? Above all, these non-legal barriers, the lack of which could make farmers more willing to take advantage of the opportunities offered by agricultural retail trade. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u26	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition. [[There isn't.]] There isn't. Mr Waldy Dzikowski, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. [[There isn't.]] There isn't. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Parliamentary Club... [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] [[Solid.]] That's right, the Coalition...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u27	Coalition of Poland, Mr. Marshal. I don't know, I'm having a bad day in this respect. I'm really sorry about that. And I am very sorry, really, there is nothing malicious about it. Some kind of brain block, but I'm gonna unlock it right now. There you go. But what I'm gonna ask maybe your marshal will cheer you up a little bit and make the day better. I asked the club about the possibility of producing distillates, tinctures and cider in the agricultural retail trade. Question: "Will there be changes in this direction?" The idea is that Polish farms, like farms located in other European countries: in France, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Switzerland is not in the European Union, but in Switzerland, Austria, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, can produce alcoholic beverages. Is there a change envisaged in this regard? It is about facilitating and enabling such production. And the second question, concerning the product which is produced today in Poland or was produced, with which Polish sadists had huge hopes, namely: cider. It is an old Polish alcoholic drink, once called apple pie, made from apples before the war, which was a great hope for the development of up to 100,000. t apples per year. Several hundred farms in Poland have invested in the production of this drink, which today falls (Dawn) in terms of this production, because excise duty killed the production of cider in Poland, killed its consumption. In this respect, and such announcements were made by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, do you foresee changes, i.e. a reduction of excise duty on this important product for Polish fruitors? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u28	Thank you very much, sir, from the Polish Coalition. Please, Mrs Dorota Sunday, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u29	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question that no one has said yet. It's about a record in this bill that no one's ever talked about. You say that you open, and very well, space, you open opportunities, you increase limits, but the basic thing we're talking about is putting a muzzle on farmers called control. I ask: Did you notice that your law does not impose supervision on farmers, but is subject to control? So there's gonna be more checks on the farmers. Will this increase the number of people who volunteer for this retail trade? Definitely not. Mr President, change that, we will make such an amendment. It doesn't make sense if it's on the farmers' side of control. And the further question is, where is the joint inspection project promised by you for the past six years to change the number of these checks with farmers? In this law, you put one more check on farmers. Until now (the bell) the agricultural retail trade, i.e. direct sales, has been supervised. There's a check coming in right now and she's gonna kill that agricultural retail trade. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u30	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u31	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I will say a little in the context of what Mrs Niedziela said. In your explanatory memorandum to the draft law, you wrote that the purpose of these amended provisions is to facilitate the agricultural trade of retail farmers. On the other hand, on the other hand, it appears from those provisions that you are proposing that you impose additional obligations on the food producer by checking health inspection and veterinary inspection. In this context, I would like to ask you: How do you want to do this, and why do you move away from existing legislation that facilitates the production of food by farmers and according to which only supervision is carried out? What else is control, what else is supervision. Do you really want to kill agricultural retail by controlling? Thank you. [[Come on.]] It's gotta be changed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u32	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Telus, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u33	Dear Marshal, I'll start by saying thank you, you know what for. Dear Izbo! Of course it is a very good and expected law, a law that goes in the right direction when it comes to retail. This is a great opportunity for Polish agriculture, for these small Polish agricultural producers. That's right - for those small Polish ones, the ones most in Poland, because we have 80% Smallest farms. This bill will encourage... Of course, when it comes to control matters, we need to work on it so that there are no obstacles, just to make it even easier. We must do everything to ensure that Kowalski's client - because this bill is not only for farmers, but also for customers, for customers, for every proverbial Kowalski - buys good dishes, good, best quality products and so that he knows who he's buying from. So this is very good. Minister! I ask the question: Do we have data on how much since 2017, when Law and Justice introduced this law and the possibility of retailing (The Bell), how many farmers have decided to do so? [[$12,000.]] [[12,000, sir.]] I'll give you an example of the Carpathian. Indeed, if the whole country were to follow the example of Podkarpacie, we would have a very large retail trade. Mr. Marshal, thank you again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u34	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u35	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! You have said here that this law starts with the Polish Government for agriculture. And I would like to ask if it is not that you are talking about certain mechanisms that allow farmers to do non-agricultural activities, hoping that farmers will be engaged in economic activity, which will distract them from the real problems of Polish agriculture. I would like to ask if the roadside stalls the government is sending farmers to will have to have money for online communications. Second: Will the farmer be exempted from the sanitary obligations of other producers? Dear Minister, I would kindly ask you to answer these questions in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u36	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I may reply briefly to my fellow Member, not in writing, but orally that we are doing agricultural retail not to distract farmers from agriculture and what is happening to them, only to start earning decently where there is big money. That's what it's done for. But I have two short questions, they seem simple. Why has official control been put in place to supervise agricultural retail trade instead of supervision? What was so much worse about surveillance? And so many farmers complained about different interpretations of doctors from health care or veterinary medicine in different counties. This is a problem that really hurts farmers, because here we should - like the Austrians, as I have already said many times - do the same guidelines across the country. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the second reservation is that right now agricultural retail trade can be distorted by the fact that we do not introduce an obligation to produce these products only from products produced on our farm, but we allow them to buy products in a supermarket and sell them in the framework of agricultural retail trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u38	Thank you very much. You've extended it by half a minute, sir. [[I'm sorry.]] Exactly. Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Mrs Teresa Pamuła. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition. There it is. You must say for two messengers and for yourself.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u39	Exactly. Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The agricultural retail trade is still at a very low level. Although it concerns a small group of farmers, it is worth talking about, it is worth supporting such solutions. He's got some very important elements. The point is, firstly, to shorten the supply chain between the producer and the recipient, yesterday we discussed this subject for a very long time. The second element: we should absolutely strive to promote healthy organic products. I will remind the maniac that we should continue to work on this, create the conditions for more and more organic farms to be created in Poland, because there is a future in this area. Of course, that limit, which was $40,000, is too low. It's a good thing it's the solution to pick it up, but also to give up control. The real problems of farmers are elsewhere, it's ASF, insurance (the bell), high costs, inflation. We should also talk about this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u40	You're welcome. The messengers were late because they were at the committee meeting. Therefore, you are absolutely justified, as a reward we add you to the end. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u41	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Draft law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the conduct by farmers of the retail trade. The title itself is good and good. My questions to the Minister. What impact will this amendment have on the state budget? Does the Minister believe that this is sufficient and sufficient support for farmers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u42	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u43	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I conducted a public consultation with individual farmers from Opole Voivodeship, especially from Głubczycki County and Namysłowski County, from the NSZZ Individual Farmers (Solidarity) and farmers strongly support the bill submitted. The agricultural retail trade is very important. However, we have a recommendation to include. Include the structure of NSZZ Individual Farmers in promoting this way of doing business in order to further support and promote agricultural retail trade in an even more effective way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u44	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The two most important features of family farms, which are most frequently mentioned, are the disposal of products on the local market and the sensitivity to control the means of production. Farmers are to compete among themselves on the local market. The mechanism that causes farmers to enter the regional market, the national market or the global market is described in Article. 16 Regulation No 1305 of 2013 It has not been introduced. In all countries where agricultural retail trade or similar activities are carried out by farmers on a wider scale, this mechanism (The Bell) has been introduced. Doesn't the Minister fear that there will be competition between farmers, while the regional, national and global markets will not be affected? Thank you very much. Sorry, Marshal, for the extension.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u46	Thank you very much. Please, sir. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u47	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The agricultural retail trade is an opportunity to increase the profitability of Polish farms, especially, as Mr Wojciechowski said, of family farms. I see this on the example of farmers from the counties of Wieruszów, Wieruszów and Wieruszów. But there is one problem. Their tasty, healthy, nutritious products cannot be sold by farmers from the Pającza district in Silesia, Wieruszowskie in Wielkopolska. Does this amendment provide for the possibility of trade across the country? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u48	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. [[Voice from the room: Banaszek.]] Banasek. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u49	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The bill is very much needed, and the producers are waiting for it. It shortens the way, while expanding its scope and capabilities. The agricultural retail trade in the new edition also creates new expectations. My questions are: What are the calculations, forecasts of sales growth in agricultural retail trade as a result of the introduction of this law? Second question: Can wine produced by farmers from grapes, apples, plums be sold in the framework of agricultural retail trade? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u50	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Nowogórska, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We're discussing agricultural retail. It seems like a good bill, but I wanted to ask you a few questions. I live in the district of Limanowski, in the area of beautiful districts - Gorlicki, Sądecki and Podhale. There, in most cases, we have family farms that are very fragmented. I wanted to ask farmers, fruitists, beekeepers and agricultural producers on behalf of farmers to actually change the record and not to include in the bill the necessity to control them, but to supervise them, possibly. This is very important. This will definitely stimulate agricultural production. This will improve the health of those who will benefit from these products. I also wanted to ask, Minister, have you considered creating a system of reliefs for people who will buy these products for large consumers, so as to reward local agricultural production? I think it will be a bilateral mechanism that will encourage farmers to produce, and producers and buyers (the bell) will be able to obtain some tax relief. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u52	Thank you very much. Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, I support all the comments made by my colleagues in the Civic Coalition regarding this project. I believe that eliminating the limit is a good initiative, going in the right direction. It is a beautiful initiative to shorten the food chain - from producer to consumer. It is about making good Polish food available, I emphasize, - Polish, our food. It is also an opportunity to create a brand of the region, because that is the problem. Very many individual farmers have lots of fruits or preparations that are really fantastic, healthy, without chemistry, but it is difficult to find these producers. You'd have to drive directly to their homes, and these are long distances. Sometimes we don't even know there's such a thing. So that's a good direction when it comes to promoting regions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Just a minute. It would be useful to create suitable places for the production of those products that meet health standards. Then we could give up control and just leave surveillance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u54	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u55	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Seym! There's been a charge in this courtroom that we don't do much, but life is made up of little things. Farmers also have the biggest problems when they are disturbed by everyday problems. That is why I believe that this law is expected especially by small farmers, because it will not be able to limit direct sales to consumers at all. I have a question for the Minister. In addition to increasing the level of sales, what tangible benefits will farmers making direct retail sales have? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u56	Thank you very much. Mrs Teresa Pamula, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u57	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm very happy that this bill is revised. This will greatly strengthen farmers in the market, which is developing strongly. In Podkarpacie almost 80% These are small and medium-sized farms. These are farms that produce very good food products, products from which you can make really great other products and which you can process. They're small milk shops, they're small cheese shops, they're small bakeries. Thank you very much to the ministry for finally making it. There was such an infirmity that you couldn't do this or that. It was only in 2017 that we were able to introduce agricultural retail trade, and now we are developing it. We can see that in small markets, there are products prepared by agricultural retail trade on different festivals. These are oil mills (the bell), these are all kinds of small massacres. Minister! Can we still count on the support of this agricultural retail trade so that farmers can prepare places to produce healthy, fresh and wonderful food for Poles? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u58	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Minister Simon Giżyński, will answer the question of whether we can still count on support. Come in, Minister, kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for all these detailed comments, questions, but also for the group evaluations, because there was no shortage either. They are all in some sense equally valuable, because even those that are unjust and put in a way that is not much in common with the matter, also confirm the correctness of our intentions, maybe to the highest extent. These questions and doubts appeared both in club speeches and later in a series of questions. I'll try to group it together, or at least not to miss the most important ones. At the same time, I guarantee that what is necessary will, of course, be completed immediately in the form of written replies. Mr Plocke asked how it could be tied here... Of course, he criticized and predicted that this relationship is usurpative, it is about agricultural retail trade and Polish Load. It is quite obvious that this is not usurpation, but like any other solution, every other certain projection and task, so RHD, also through the Polish Load as a common denominator, absorbs the concern and finances of the government. And that is a perfectly clear and sufficient answer in this case. I think the right answer... This was perhaps an exception, Mr Plocke's malices, which were given us here in excess, even for our unexplored seymours in this case. whether or not excessive doubts that I must leave the Member alone with them. I think there is also a need for a substantive answer here, because it falls not only in the statements of Minister Plocke, but also in others. Such concern, doubt, note, the point that it is a small scale that farmers do not respond to it as they should, that these incentives are insufficient and that something is not right. Ladies and gentlemen, they are being accused of being interested, of being specific, and Mr Plocke has made this clear. Such an obvious fact, in terms of propaganda intentions, is a certain fact in this regard. But remember, this is already a matter of all clubs, of all backgrounds, because we know this very well from hundreds of committee meetings where it was discussed, the laws that we discussed together, because they are that in this case There is still work to be done and a great common concern for Polish farmers to guarantee new forms of action. This takes time, patience and credibility, and we ensure that credibility, since we are improving such an important bill. Here, fortunately, this motive has been recognized by you well and honestly, because the designers are praised, that we follow the blow, that it went that we have that interest. But, ladies and gentlemen, these western patterns, the patterns of other countries of the European Union and beyond, are pushing farmers into cooperative arms, into the arms of other forms of management, and it comes out differently. So let's be patient and consistent here. And for some chances that come here, I'll be right back. I will reply briefly to Mr Mirosław Maliszewski. Direct sales concern raw materials. In the case of RHD, we are talking about raw materials and processed articles. I think that this general reflection, which concerns the response of many unsatisfied scale of this project, has responded to this response by a dozen thousand farmers... Ladies and gentlemen, in 2017, when we started doing this, we designed that the first answer would be approx. 10,000. Now there is much, much more and it must be said that if this trend continues, if these projects, these farms will be profitable and sustainable, then, ladies and gentlemen, it will be in my mind and in our intentions perhaps the most important structural change in our agriculture, because it has a direct bearing on the food safety of Poland. Smaller agriculture is precisely the situation where the food security guarantee is not 300 hectares filled with rapeseed, but on the same area, say, 300 hectares of 100 small farms, which will produce excellent, healthy food directly on the market and yet continue to do so. This is a future issue of Polish food security. This is also the answer to the questions of all those countries who asked that question, who here had their doubts, also Mr Mirosław Suchon from Poland 2050, who compared this, of course, ironising it to the Holy Grail, saying that it is something from the assumption of false, irrelevant and unrealistic. We are not talking here, ladies and gentlemen, in mystical terms, in literary, legendary terms, but we are talking in terms of a very realistic, very forward-looking project, which we must all strive for together, and also this discussion and your declarations, I think, guarantee that we will take care of RHD. I think that we will do so together in a number of legislative initiatives and in everyday practice. Maybe now I'll get to the questions. Of course, I have them arranged in the order in which you spoke. Mr Suchoń has also appeared in a series of questions. I attach to his question information about the Trade Act on Sundays, which extends the capabilities of RHD. Mrs Kozłowska, I would like to say that, of course, we can buy the raw materials needed for our own needs under the RHD, but we must remember: the fact that the tax exemption takes place when, in quotes, the foreign, i.e. produced outside its own holding, there will be no more than 50%. Mr Piotr Boris is also not a supporter of a small scale or does not believe in it. Let us look for solutions together, and what I said in such a programme statement is also the answer to Mr Piotr Boris' doubts. There are a whole series of questions that, fortunately, come from a misunderstanding, certainly not to be invented, not to get us into a difficult or artificial situation, but there is some misunderstanding and it is very good that we have the opportunity to discuss them here and explain them. This is the fear and the accusation that we introduced instead of supervision control, and it's so vicious, almost completely permanent, meticulous. It's not like that. There is a situation where we had to respond very clearly to certain demands, requirements of the European Union. This is where the semantics of official control appeared, as the Union wishes. And that's the end of it. It's gonna be a control in the surveillance formula, just like it's been so far. Nothing more, nothing more than that. The same being, in fact, does not change anything, but we have defended ourselves here with a certain semantic arrangement, i.e. adapting our legal solution to the language required in the Union. However, what has been so far remains entirely. The inspection will not be preventive, but merely intervention, inspection by supervision, rare control. I think it should reassure you, because this scale of application of RHD is already wide enough and its success is under a certain control of social judgment, the judgment of farmers themselves, that it is clear how these checks work. And so far there has been no complaint about the overzealousness of these controls, that they have hindered the production and hindered farmers' lives. So I want to be clear: nothing will change here. If it was good and there were checks useful, rational, meaningful and effective in its dimensions, nothing will change here in this respect. It was Mrs Urszula Nowogórska's request to give relief also to customers, i.e. buyers. Ladies and gentlemen, if we were to go in this direction, the whole idea of agricultural retail would be to take the lead, to put it bluntly and colloquially, because what we have come up with is to help farmers, not for example. Big nets that would first reach out for that kind of money. So that's not gonna happen. The measures asked by Mrs Teresa Pamuła to help farms in the investment sense, to improve the standard of management, are in the RDPs and farmers engaged in agricultural retail trade to benefit from these measures we urge them. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I thank you very much for this discussion, in a huge part, absolutely overwhelming, full of good will, good ideas, real care, and such a declaration which is completely transforming into our faith that we will work together on the next amendments, improvements and good aura on a daily basis around agricultural retail trade, as I have also said here, as a clear, obvious opportunity for Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u60	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u61	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposals presented in the draft law amending certain laws to facilitate the conduct of retail trade by farmers, including in particular an increase in the area where the supply of food produced under RHD can be carried out to retail establishments such as shops, restaurants and cafés, from voivodeships to the whole country, and the abolition of maximum food limits sold under RHD for the sale of food to final consumers, and leaving these limits only for supplies to retail establishments, aim to further make this form of activity more attractive to farmers. However, please clarify the doubts as to whether the proposed solutions do not force the need to comply with stricter sanitary standards. In other words, to what extent will the provisions of Regulation 852/2004 and of which 853/2004 be applied? Is there not, therefore, a threat that farmers will torpedo the idea of spreading this form of activity? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u62	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the conduct by farmers of agricultural retail trade, contained in print No 1516, to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act - Code of Commercial Companies and some other laws (Print No 1515). I ask the Secretary of State in the Ministry of State Assets of Mr Maciej Małecki to present the justification for the bill. I'd like to invite the Minister. And thank you very much to the Minister for Agriculture. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u63	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present to you a draft amendment to the Commercial Companies Code and some other laws. This is the largest reform of the Commercial Companies Code for 20 years, prepared by the State Commission for State Assets Acting at the Ministry of Finance. Reforms of Ownership Supervision. This work was conducted in broad consultation and many discussions. In order to encourage you to work together on transforming this project into part of the Polish legal order, I would like to give you an insight into the reasons why this draft reform of the Commercial Companies Code was created. I will also present the silhouettes of people who were involved in its preparation. I will talk about the broad consultation that has been followed by the preparation of the project, which is the subject of our deliberations today. I will also give you an overview of the most important instruments that have been included in the project. But let's start with why the Ministry of State Assets started working on the code. This is a direct effect of talking to entrepreneurs and signals that they expect change. So the project I present is primarily a response to the needs reported by the Polish business. But the need for change is also due to the success of our economy, how much our economy has developed in recent years. In place of 205 grand. companies that operated in 2000, today we have 460 thousand. companies, and entities that have only taken first steps in business in 2000, are sometimes managing dozens of subsidiaries and trading billions of zlotys. A more complex economy requires a law tailored to its needs. Besides, this development of the Polish economy, Polish companies are still progressing, of which I hope the entire High Chamber is proud. Our country also competes with other countries more and more courageously and dynamically, so it needs the right tools to do so. Good economic law is a way for Poland to win this competition as often as possible. Such conditions create this project, gives advanced tools for a good competitive fight in very demanding foreign markets. Importantly, the consequence of our country's entry into the European Union is that our country competes with other countries as a place of business placement. Good economic law is a way for Poland to win this competition as often as possible. In order for the Commercial Companies Code to meet its requirements, we invited recognised experts to cooperate with a wide range of practical knowledge. The teams that prepared the project that we are presenting to the High House today were headed by Prof. Andrzej Szumański from the Jagiellonian University, who is one of three authors of the Commercial Companies Code, Dr. Radosław Kwaśnicki, a recognized corporate governance expert, and Prof. Piotr Pinior from the University of Silesia, also a leading commercial law expert. I would also like to highlight the very important role, the huge work done on this project by the current director, PhD Filip Ostrowski, [[Applause]] Head of the Owner's Reform Office at the Ministry of State Assets. The bill is therefore intended to open up new opportunities for our entities, to give our companies new tools. And the great advantage of this project is that not only scientists, but also entrepreneurs participated in its preparation from the very beginning. So we are not dealing with a project that has only been consulted with business, but we are dealing with a project whose business is a co-author. The consultation was also very broad around the project. We have invited more than 200 actors to present their positions. We've extended the consultation time to 45 days. We have received more than 800 pages of comments, and in many cases we have taken these comments into account in the proposal that we are submitting to the High House today. Mr Janusz Kowalski was responsible for this area for the first part of his work on the project, including the organizational project, in the Ministry of State Assets. [[Applause]] Thank you very much from this place today. At the head of the Committee on the Functioning of the European Union, The Owner's Reform stands Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Assets Mr Jacek Sasin. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Another.]] [[Voice from the room: Expert.]] The flagship part of the project is the regulation of groups of companies to give parent companies the opportunity to effectively manage subsidiaries while safeguarding the interests of other economic players. The current provisions of Article. 7 Commercial Companies Code does not meet any of these objectives. Sometimes, in doctrine, one can see the view that problems in this area will be solved by the judiciary, but the Polish legal system does not belong to the systems of the countries of customary law. The responsibility for lawmaking and the social mandate to do so lies with the High House. After the entry into force of the new rules, parent companies will be given the right to issue binding orders to subsidiaries. They will be able to obtain information from their subsidiaries on a special basis. They will also be able to buy out minority shareholders. With the additional powers of the parent company, it corresponds to its additional liability to creditors and minority shareholders. The interests of these two groups have been secured by formalism to accompany the issuing of binding orders. On the other hand, the counterpart of the parent company's right of repurchase is granted to minority shareholders. Solutions to improve the efficiency of the supervisory board are a response to the reported problems that many times after irregularities occurred in a company, problems arose later. Where was the board of directors? Therefore, the proposed changes address fundamental issues for corporate governance, how to ensure that the supervisory board has information about what is happening in the company and is able to process this information. After the provisions proposed by us have come into force, this will be the case. To the rest of the project included provisions clarifying the fundamental responsibilities of members of boards and supervisory boards: secrecy obligations, loyalty obligations. The principle of business assessment has also been codified in many European countries. One of the fathers of Polish trade law Aleksander Doliński wrote: The lawyer gives only form, content is provided by the economist. This is how this ambitious project was created in relation to the best traditions of Polish economic law. The contents were delivered by the business. Prominent lawyers gave form. And now all we have to do is ask the High House to work on this project in substance and substance. The tradition of legislation in the area of trade law is that even where people shared political differences, and these also divide us today, we can create a good law for the Polish economy, because differences shared the authors of the 1934 Commercial Code and shared this High Chamber, which in 2000 adopted the Commercial Companies Code. In both cases, however, it was possible to work together over divisions in order to be very important and aimed at public benefit. This is the kind of cooperation I encourage and invite colleagues from the High Chamber. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u64	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask you, Mr Janusz Kowalski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u65	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, It is my great honor to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the bill submitted to amend the Commercial Companies Code Act and other laws. Of course, this is a positive position and we propose that the project be sent to further work. I am, of course, also doing this as Vice-President of the Commission for Foreign Affairs. Reforms of Ownership Supervision. This Commission, more than 60 of its experts, has drawn up this bill, interrupting a several-year dispute about holding law, corporate law, because it can actually be said and it must be said that this is the largest reform of the Commercial Companies Code for 20 years, because this Section IV, which we propose, is the law of groups of companies is a fundamental novelty in the Polish legal order. As you know, art. Seven, so far residual, in fact, was dead. In other words, we respond to the needs of Polish business, especially the one who wants to develop abroad, who wants to carry out an energy transformation that wants to expand and manage companies' interests in an absolutely professional way. We respond to such a compromise - a compromise, because we listened to business and practitioners. We have talked for months, we have adopted a lot of comments on this project from people who have made such comments in more than 45 days of consultation. What are the three main pillars of this project? The first, as I said, is, of course, the law of groups of companies. The most important is the binding command instrument. Here, of course, we safeguard the interests and minority shareholders and creditors, but the change in the interests of the companies is also the right of the parent company to have access to information from subsidiaries, e.g. In the case of a public limited liability company today, it is impossible. Such solutions function, among others. in Germany, Slovenia, the Czech Republic or Portugal. We also looked at French and Italian solutions. We have chosen the best solution in our assessment. I am able to defend the view that if the High House accepts this solution, it will be the most modern holding law in Europe, because we have also looked at the mistakes made in other countries and tried to learn from them. The second point is, of course, to improve the efficiency of the functioning of supervisory boards. It's a huge reform. We're eliminating information asymmetry between the board and the board of directors. The supervisory board in accordance with this project will become a real partner in management or control of the company. The board simply needs to keep all the basic events up-to-date with the supervisory board, which will eliminate such situations... We had a discussion recently about where the supervisory board of GetBack, whose members said they didn't know anything, said: We didn't know anything, because the board didn't inform about the situation of the company. This project is the answer, among others. For cases like the GetBack case. The next issue, of course, is the institution of the Supervisory Board Advisor. The point is to make supervision of the board more effective and realistic. Finally, the Supervisory Board will be able to investigate potential irregularities or carry out recruitment processes beyond the decisions of the Management Board, and will have the possibility of hiring a Supervisory Board Advisor. This formula works in other countries. Another thing, of course, is such a teenage discussion about the question of a mandate or a term of office. We're interrupting her. The law must be clear, so we are proposing certain solutions that will undoubtedly interrupt this teenage debate. The important thing is that we clarify rules for members of supervisory boards and boards in the context of loyalty, in the context of confidentiality, in the context of taking care of the interests of the company also after the expiry of the term of office. Ladies and gentlemen! The Commission for the reform of ownership supervision refers, as Minister Małecki said, to the solutions of the 1934 Commercial Code, because it was indeed a positive dialogue. I would like to remind you that in 2000 the Commercial Companies Code was adopted without a vote of opposition at third reading, then there were amendments to the Senate. 400 Members voted in this Chamber. I encourage you to take a substantive and calm look at this project. We are, I think, all open to substantive dialogue. Let's look for the best solutions for Polish business. Last sentence. The three basic things that were accepted by the Commission on the reform of ownership control last year show how well the Commission worked last year. First line. During the pandemic (The Bell) we unlocked the principle of company operation because we decided on electronic decision-making by supervisory authorities and boards. The second issue concerns restructuring and bankruptcy; we have saved many Polish companies. I encourage you to have a substantive discussion. The position of the Law and Justice Club is positive. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u66	Thank you very much, sir. Barbara Dolniak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u67	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The code should have stability. His change should be as rare as possible. The change decision must be based on the need for legal trading. For every change has its addressees. The question is, are they the beneficiaries of the change or its victims? The beneficiaries are written about as part of the presentation of nepotism in companies of the State Treasury Onet, Wyborcza and Radio ZET. Changes in the law cannot be dictated by political interests. This is because such actions are aimed at disrupting the legal system and constitute the foundation of many offences against the letter of the law. Minister Małecki explains that he will receive a tool that will make it easier to manage groups of companies. It claims that the proposed solutions will reduce the time taken to decide, because the owner of the company will be able by its authorities to lead to the expected decision. Asked for concrete information, he answers that thanks to the new holding law, the clothing company affected by the lockdown will be able to move smoothly from traditional trade to online trade, as well as to implement joint purchases. However, over the last 30 years, the business has developed solutions known as Mon. the code of the group within the framework of the existing Commercial Companies Code and the caselaw has accepted these solutions. Now it's all thrown in the trash. Another change is the strengthening of supervision in capital companies. The Minister argues that, thanks to the change made, the Boards will eventually be required to inform the Supervisory Board about the situation of the companies and that the Supervisory Board will be entitled to request information from the Management Board and employees about what is happening in the company. For failure to provide information to the supervisory board, the Management Board is to be fined and restricted. Moreover, the Minister stresses that the members of the supervisory boards will be able to use the services of independent advisors responsible for the supervisory board. But all of this is possible and implemented right now. How these solutions are applied to the structure of capital companies in Poland, where nearly 90 companies from O.O. these are single-member companies, about 360 thousand, and only about 800 public limited-liability companies have a mass shareholder, of which about 70 have a leading shareholder? What will be the cost of such a change for the day-to-day operation of companies, including the smallest ones? The justification of the project is silent. What is the real purpose of these changes if there is no substantive justification for such changes? The project legitimizes the phenomenon of instrumental use of State Treasury companies for political and fiscal purposes. The holding law is intended to facilitate this, decree it, since the project indicates that the company has its own interests, independent of the interests of the shareholders. This means that the interests of the company are defined by the management board, e.g. Management Board of PKN Orlen. The binding issue of orders to subsidiaries by the board of directors of the mother company is intended to facilitate the declaration of nepotism. Unfortunately, it will not be like saying: an example comes from above. In this situation, it's an order coming from upstairs. In turn, the right to refuse to follow these instructions is intended to safeguard the interests of individual factions. As regards the alleged strengthening of supervisory boards, it is indeed a matter of blurring the responsibility of the members of the Management Board and of the Supervisory Boards from giving political factions. The aim is to prevent the person responsible for deciding on the treatment of companies with the State Treasury as a piggy bank. The amendments which are supposed to strengthen the supervision of companies are introduced by Deputy Prime Minister Sasin. This coincides with the publication of the results of a journalistic investigation on the shocking scale of personal corruption in companies with the participation of the State Treasury. It's like letting a fox in the henhouse to keep the chickens from the fox. We're not falling for it. The intentions are known, you are afraid of criminal responsibility for nepotism, and you are preparing changes to the Commercial Companies Code to smuggle the legalisation of nepotism. The project ignores the ownership structure of the capital companies in Poland, the achievements of Polish and foreign case law and doctrine, as well as the principle of economic analysis of law and legislative technique requiring the demonstration that the benefits of the changes will be significantly higher than the costs of their implementation. These allegations can be multiplied, indicating that the draft of this content should not be proceded at all. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We therefore request that it be rejected at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u68	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, parliamentary club of the Left. Please, sir, very kind.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u69	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the pleasure of presenting a position on behalf of the Left Club regarding the draft law, which is indeed important for the functioning of companies, groups of capital and introduces some good solutions. Indeed, economic realities are changing. The Commercial Companies Code hasn't been modified in 20 years. But we note one thing that this modification must serve everyone. Unfortunately, we have the impression that it serves primarily the governing and companies of the State Treasury. The truth is, no matter how much we change these rules, it's a key issue, Minister, it's the management staff. The management body in each company is the most important element in terms of business honesty and the development of these companies. I'm afraid you have a problem with that. Probably this revision of the Commercial Companies Code is the answer to the conflicts that are in the Treasury companies today, because one president wants to throw away the vice president, the other president wants to throw away the president of the subsidiary, so you have to give someone power to one hand. That's about the way it's going. As for the very intention of introducing a holding law, it really needs to be settled. Only the following question arises. Namely, you introduce a parent company and a binding order. Of course, it is introduced in this project, and it is only such a question: Why is it introduced so vaguely and uncategorizedly? Because there is, in short, such a suspicion that, on the basis of this record that is currently in force, oral commands can be issued. Can you imagine the situation that the President of Orlenu will be giving orders orally to the President of his subsidiary? If we are talking about this, if we want to do this at all, which shows a weakness that you do not control what is happening in subsidiaries because these companies are so advanced, then we need to clarify the issue of this binding order, because someone who is responsible for this binding order, which will lead to losses, must answer. It's actually written here. You're talking about access to information. If we are talking about access to information and the role of the supervisory board, it is such a direction that you increase the powers of the supervisory board. This supervisory board of the parent company will be such a supervisory board of all other companies, which in our view is already a storm in the way of management. These competences are absolutely unclear, vague, and this should undoubtedly change. The second thing is the question of access to information. That should also be specified, because it can't be that there's a breach again. And you say, okay, this is the board of directors, as the status of the company says, there's no access to full information here. 'Cause that's how you put it. Another thing is also the introduction, I think, of a major conflict. We need to think about this very seriously. Namely, it is a matter of the selection of advisors by supervisory boards, outside the board. You're entering a conflict field. This will consist in the fact that the board of directors, which, because this happens in companies of the Treasury, will want to replace one president of a guy with another president of a guy, will order legal opinions outside the board - it is not known at what price, at what amount - to prove that this board is not functioning properly. This should not be the case, because this is unfortunately a disorder of economic and financial order in each of these companies. You're introducing some supervisory committees. I know Law and Justice like different committees, but supervisory boards setting up some committees are a thing that shouldn't have happened. So, in general, there are a lot of these comments, including how these supervisory boards are convened - unfortunately, you give the opportunity to do so without 100% participation. (The bell) of the members of the Supervisory Board to change the agenda and take other decisions. So we stand here -- it's very serious -- we'll see if your intentions really are in order to sort things out as far as holdings are concerned, in the Commercial Companies Code. We will make amendments that will explain all these inaccuracies, and we will depend on our final position. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u70	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The topic that we have come to discuss at the moment is very important and important from an economic point of view, because it will decide for the coming years how our economy will develop. And here hiding intentions, no spells like this or any other spells can happen. On the other hand, there are a number of unclear, vague entries in the project. They really raise doubts about those who are digging into the matter of this project. The Coalition Poland Parliamentary Club will not support this solution in the version that has been presented. As the predecessor said here, this project requires a lot of changes - changes that will make it clear and readable. We have bad experience with the management of companies of the State Treasury - just the Treasury. And this, Minister, that you have sealed it so much here, emphasized that it was Deputy Prime Minister Jacek Sasin who supervised all of this, that makes our concerns stronger. It's making our fears even worse. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Because if you hadn't said that, if you had said as a professional that you were running this... [[Voice from the room: But it's still...]] But no - the whole was supervised by Jacek Sasin. [[It was the minister who supervised it?]] Well, that's what I said. And we know that responsibility of ministers. We know things that haven't been cleared up so far. Further, there is a very vague provision: the exclusion of liability for damage suffered by authorities' decisions. And that's very interesting. Because we are discussing this at the moment and it is these attempts to remove responsibility for reckless spending of funds, putting Poles, Polish citizens at risk that it is difficult to trust those who propose such solutions. There are also a number of other imprecise records here. There's one thing I'm wondering. The Minister said that we have very good economic law at the moment, that it is developing. Doing Business says otherwise - that it is now more complicated. It was going in the right direction, but when Law and Justice started tampering with our economic law, it turned out that it was more complicated, that there was less trust and that we flew down by a dozen percent in the ranking. So that's what we need to be clear about. If at this moment we further complicate this law and show that this responsibility is not so clear and clear and that there are some hidden intentions, then business and our companies, and the economy will be in ever greater trouble. We will not support the rejection proposal, but we expect a number of points to be clarified. You're talking about how many professionals have worked on these solutions. Yeah, the professionals you liked. You've chosen professionals who support your proposals and your solutions. A number of ambiguities were also reported by interested parties. You have to work. You have to look for good solutions, but it can't serve, as someone in the previous speakers has already said, political matters. The ruling option will change, politicians will change, and the economy must grow, the economy must maintain continuity. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u72	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Bosak, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! It is good that, after 20 years, the Sejm has finally dealt with the amendment of the law governing the basis of economic life, the Code of Commercial Companies. This law would deserve a radical simplification, as entrepreneurs draw attention to. The proposed rules have their rationality, while we do not see this radical simplification and we will probably have to wait for it. This is a voice from the business community that has reached us, the Confederation. However, there are a few changes that are worth seeing and that make these rules that we know from the 1990s, perhaps they will start to keep up with the development of economic life, which has gone very far. The first change, probably the most pro-business one, is to limit the principle that you can judge and convict someone for acting to the detriment of your own company. We know that this principle has been abused many times before entrepreneurs. We know that the line between robbing your own company and acting by taking economic risks and suffering losses sometimes in the realities of economic life is fluid and it is a matter of assessment. These cases are ultimately judged in court. The introduction into the law of the business principle of assessing the situation that the court sees that the losses were incurred by the company, that is undisputed, but it also knows that this was due to the taking of an economic risk and not to an attempt to withdraw money from the company... I think this is a legitimate condition that entrepreneurs have been waiting for many years. Those who, under high risk conditions, wanted to achieve economic success and, unfortunately, later, if they fail, instead of making further investments, must walk the courts. Another thing that seems reasonable is the ban on persons convicted of bribery, paid protection, not to mention abuse of the powers of a public officer. What also seems interesting is the situation of strengthening the position of minority shareholders by making supervisory boards reinforced. In a situation in which the supervisory board will actually be able to demand various documents under sanctions, almost criminal ones, this strange situation that we have at the moment is being eliminated, that people are headed to the supervisory boards who are there, but in fact do not have access to the key company documents, unless they are the majority shareholder. Unless they are a shareholder - i.e. it is not a matter of competence, it is a question of whether access to documents will be obtained. If someone claims that it is only a matter of competence in the current legal state at the moment, it means that, unfortunately, he does not know exactly what he is talking about. I also take the introduction of holding rights as the approval of a certain fact which we have in the economy at the moment, where discretionary methods are managed by capital groups through a kind of personal union. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the other hand, the current law updates the actual economic situation in the legal order. On the downside: a lot of confusion, late submission of this project and a short vacathio legis. These are, however, far-reaching changes. Perhaps it is worth considering vacathio legis annual rather than just six months. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I am pleased to present the position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 on the government draft law amending the Commercial Companies Code Act and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen! The purpose of the law declared by the government is to regulate holding law as well as to equip supervisory boards with new powers, and to eliminate doubts raised in economic practice. We have examined the proposed changes very carefully, we have consulted practitioners, assuming that, after possible adoption, the proposed rules are intended primarily for the economy. I deliberately refrain from discussing the various legal aspects for the purpose of communicating those changes which we see as problematic changes. Because it is the market that raises the most questions and doubts about the proposed changes. The first group are changes concerning holding law and it is difficult not to resist the impression, which was already heard that they would mainly concern companies of the State Treasury. Private companies have fine-tuned regulations. In the case of foreign entities, this would probably only make sense for listed banking companies. However, these are excluded due to other more restrictive regulations. It seems that the only group for which these changes may be relevant are companies of the Treasury and these changes would strengthen political supervision. Besides, it is symptomatic that the author of the amendment is MAP, not e.g. Ministry of Development. It is worth noting that, despite increasing these provisions on financial and criminal liability in practice, the regulations adopted could ensure impunity for company boards within groups of companies, which is not the case in this project. Again, we are going back to treating the Treasury companies as political spoils and hence decision-making problems, Minister, because everyone treats a company like his son and like a cash cow. It's easier than changing the code: end up with nepotism, end with guys. Right now, Poland 2050 presents the assumptions for the draft law, which is about to end it. I encourage you to take advantage. The next group is the records of supervisory boards. The Americans say that if something isn't broken, it's not worth fixing. However, the project interferes very strongly with the powers of supervisory boards so far and unfortunately will result in changes, among others. the possibility of taking surprising decisions in the absence of part of the members or the possibility for members of the board of the parent company to carry out supervisory tasks over subordinated companies. As a result, it is difficult to really talk about the responsibility of the supervisory boards of subordinate companies (the bell) and the readability of corporate supervision. The project also abandons the principle of collegiality, giving all members the right to act individually without the need for the Council to delegate. As an experienced former member of the Supervisory Boards, I must say that I see this as a great threat to the legibility of supervision and the sustainability of companies. It is also possible for the Council to employ additional advisers at the expense of the company. I think that anyone who has any imagination is immediately reminded of various scandals in the Treasury companies. Let me put it straight: this is another highway to withdraw funds from companies of the State Treasury. The project introduces the financial and criminal responsibility of the board of directors... Mr President, we must go slowly. Literally three sentences, Mr. Marshal, and I'm done. I've already given you a minute more. ...for lack of proper cooperation, but does not explain between which advice. I only mentioned some of these problems. There are several solutions worthy of interest. Therefore, it is only for this reason that I will not apply for rejection, but we expect a very thorough discussion of the draft in committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u76	Thank you very much. Mr Stanisław Żuk, Kukiz.15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u77	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The economic reality of Poland undergoes constant transformations and, as is often the case, precedes the existing regulations, which do not promote the efficiency of the management of the company. The Act on amendment of the Act - Code of Commercial Companies and some other laws as a fundamental objective sets the introduction into Polish law of the law of holding law. The proposed provisions regulate the relationship between the parent company and its subsidiaries and equip supervisory boards with tools for more effective corporate supervision. Regulation introduced in 2000 of the holding law repealing Article. 7 of the Commercial Companies Code did not take into account the regulation of the legal issues of factual holding companies, i.e. companies between which the relationship of dominance and dependency arose. New chapter titled: The group of companies concerns real-time holding companies and responds to business requests. The economic environment is divided into supporters and opponents of the granting of wide powers to the parent company's authorities vis-à-vis companies belonging to the group of companies. The creation of a holding structure does not mean the exclusion of tax law which imposes sanctions on the transfer of profits, in particular for breach of the principle of concluding contracts between affiliated companies on a market-based basis under the same conditions as between independent entities. The definition of a group of companies is that companies participating in the group adopt a common economic strategy which indicates that the parent company exercises uniform management over subsidiaries. This is equivalent to the acceptance of the functional criterion. As near Kukiz15 - Direct Democracy, we consider the proposed regulations to be necessary for the smooth management of businesses. That is why we are in favour of further proceedings and we are counting on the swift adoption of the law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u78	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. 18 people came forward with the intention to ask a question. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. And here we go. Mr. Krzysztof Gadowski, Civil Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Indeed, the economy has moved on a little bit, we have a few years after the first code and a few recent changes, but we should also say that there have also been huge changes to the cast of boards, supervisory boards, just those we are seeing today on social media. It was the political parties that suddenly started taking over these organs. What are you doing? In this law, you say this: advisors to supervisory boards, dominant supervisory boards, supervisory boards. It's another sonecure for party warlords, for people with one party card. We want a code to be a constitution of entrepreneurs based on party independence. And since you actually have these, not other members of the board of directors, weak, just with party cards, not with powers, you have to build them up with another army of people. Minister! [[♪ The bell ♪]] 45 days to consult. Do you think that's enough time to make such powerful changes that you're proposing? Is that enough time for that? How many companies of the State Treasury participated in these consultations, and how many private companies? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u80	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you two questions, Minister. The first thing is to be able to issue these binding commands. The regulations make these commands possible in oral form. This clearly leads to various types of problems concerning, first, documentation, second, liability. Why did you propose is this regulation, which rather leads to obscuration of the process and the basis for the decisions taken, rather than clearly facilitates the operation in this area? The second question concerns the decision-making process of the supervisory boards. You have proposed that supervisory boards be able to make a bump, because this is how you should read a situation where, in the absence of the members of the board, there is suddenly an additional point at the meeting and only those (the bell) who are present can vote under this point. Why such an idea that leads to a de facto coup in companies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u82	Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Mr Jarosław Sochajko, Kukiz.15. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u83	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Sachaiko Jarosław. I know, I know, everybody's wrong. Mr President, I am so sorry. [[Applause]] That's the second time I've made a mistake. I just need to put this in my head. There is little time, but I wanted to start by expressing my surprise that here this process of consulting and cuffing this law is being denied. I from many backgrounds have just heard the very praises for the bill, actually for the process of passing, i.e. preparing this law, because the academic community participated, and practitioners, and politicians, as well as entrepreneurs. I wanted to ask you about the anti-corruption solutions that have been prepared here, which exclude some of the people who cannot sit on the board. Exactly, because the problem starts with a human being, and a group of people who shouldn't be on board have been turned off. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'd really like to ask... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u84	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, Parliamentary Club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u85	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, Minister, thank you very much for stating that you were under the supervision of Minister Sasin. Speaking in this way to the High House, you have said a lot. The legislator has very precisely defined the percentage of ownership in a law called anti-corruption. However, this problem is overlooked in situations that are much more frequent and on a larger scale. Who and on what basis will determine whether the company is a related company or a subsidiary? What is the maximum holding that can be taken into account so that the office does not consider the company to be a subsidiary? Finally, the question that emerged in the consultation. It is a proposal for OPZZ to make the participation of employees in supervisory boards of more than 50 people mandatory. I kindly ask the Minister to respond in writing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u86	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Olszewski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u87	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! As you know, there is a sports theme close to my heart. Our entrepreneurs, especially the champions of our economy, are those who play an important role in the financing of professional sport. The success of our sports champions such as Iga Świątek, Robert Kubica, Anita Włodarczyk and Maria Andrejczyk is of course a great talent, there is a titanic job, but it is also necessary to provide them with financial facilities. This is often provided by companies operating with capital groups. I would therefore like to ask whether the projector sees the potential for the entry into force of company law to contribute to better, more coordinated financing of professional sport or amateur sport in our country by companies acting as capital groups? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u88	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What are you talking about, Civil Platform? You mean, there's no holding law that answers the most important thing? Because law firms are looting today, among other things. companies of the Treasury, because the law is unclear. Do you mean, the Civic Platform, that you don't want people who have been convicted of corruption to be banned from the board of directors? Do you mean the Civic Platform, but not to strengthen the supervisory boards, so that it is effective supervision of the Treasury companies and over 440 thousand. companies in Poland? What do you mean? If you have any comments, please make those comments. And today you stand against the Polish business, which needs clear and clear rules. This is a modern private economic law, you have no substantive arguments and you want to reject the bill, which is primarily addressed to private business. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u90	Thank you very much. Maria Małgorzata Janyska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have as usual for every system project for this power two worlds. The world of fiction, its narrow backyard and the real world. [[Applause]] This real world is precisely those private entrepreneurs who claim that there was not a properly announced substantive work. These are authorities, scientific experts, but also practitioners who said that there was a promise to prepare good substantive work based on scientific conferences, including international ones. Unfortunately, it didn't happen. [[Who said that?]] Only a small group of your experts were involved. 45 days to consult, and it's still during the holiday period. Can this be called a proper consultation? Is the referral a consultation? I don't think so. The Minister was also obscured by good economic law. However, under the rule of law and justice, there is an unparalleled inflation of law. If we want to be a good economic law (the bell), we should start with this - and this is our proposal - to finally adopt in this House normal, decent and good rules of law-making, which will primarily be based on an impact assessment in the activities of entrepreneurs. Finally, Marshal, last sentence, quote from expert practice: Yes, it will be a revolution, a very bad revolution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u92	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Szewiński, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As my previous speaker said, a good law is a simple law and enforced law. And we, Members, should make every effort to leave this House after a public consultation, after consulting the opposition on a good bill. There are many good records in this project, while the devil is in the details. The question is whether the amendment of the law will increase the cost of running companies and reduce the decision-making and independence of the bodies of subordinate companies concerned by the project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u94	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! When you read the bill, you should start with a justification, because the justification should show, explain why and to what extent the law is amended. However, at the outset, the justification is inconsistent with the facts. Because, please, is it true that foreign investors benefit from favourable business conditions in Poland or choose Poland because of the attractiveness of the national legal system? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] After all, during the work on Polish Ład, the government itself admitted that the investment climate, the business climate in Poland is unfavourable and therefore proposed so-called. investment agreements. Indicators of business attractiveness in Poland are deteriorating, all global indicators confirm this, and PiS today claims that we have the best indicators. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u96	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, In the framework of the consultation, OPZZ calls for legislation to be introduced in the draft law which will guarantee the participation of employees in supervisory boards and boards of private sector companies employing more than 50 employees. Importantly, participation in the authorities of private companies should take into account the applicable rights of employees under the Commercialisation Act of 30 August 1996 and certain rights of employees. I would very much like to ask you to address this request and to respond in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u98	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u99	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's 2021. The main amendment or, we'd say, the code we're working on is 2004... This is a powerful era for business. We should have taken care of that code a long time ago. It's a good thing we're doing it today. There were very interesting voices in the discussion: the Lefts, Kukiz.15 and the Confederation. An interesting request was made for employee councils to have their representative. That's a very good motive. And vacathio legis... I would like to say that today the board of directors of the company tells the supervisory board as much as the board wants. And that fortification is a good demand. On the other hand, I would really consider the vacathio legis and the introduction, I already said, to the companies of the person addressed there by the employees. This is an interesting request also for NABE. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u100	Thank you very much. Barbara Dolniak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u101	Thank you, Marshal. Do you know why no written letter was entered in the draft order of the parent company issued in relation to the subsidiary? The point is, it's easy to misunderstand responsibility, it's easy to say that's not the order. This leads to a blurring of responsibility. That is your intention, ladies and gentlemen, as far as this project is concerned. There are plenty of legal solutions out there that disqualify this project. It is created e.g. the question whether the regulation of holding law would apply to foreign companies. The definition of a group of companies is unclear and it is not known whether it is created automatically or voluntarily. The regulation concerning access of members of the supervisory board of a public limited liability company to documents and information is not precise. Finally, is it also about allowing the supervisory board to adopt a resolution suddenly and unexpectedly in the absence of its member or members. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These are just some of the examples of allegations against this project. Projects relating to the Code are created for a long time because it is important and difficult matter, and the state boasts of 45-day consultations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u102	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Uruski, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u103	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As a long-term self-government officer from Podkarpacie, I would like to stress that in our economy three types of companies can be distinguished from the characteristics of the owner, i.e. private companies, State Treasury companies and municipal companies. In the statements concerning the draft reform of the Commercial Companies Code, it is noted that both private companies and companies of the Treasury were represented in the course of the work on the Act. I would like to ask about municipal companies, which are an important part of our economy. How much of their perspective and perspective of local self-government units sounded in the course of their work, and how much will they be able to benefit from this greatest revision of the Code of Commercial Companies for 20 years, prepared on the initiative and under the coordination of Mr Janusz Kowalski?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u104	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Jaśkowiak, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u105	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Minister spoke a lot about the creation of good law, stating the reasons why he felt that the creation of good law was the result. I would like to draw attention to the problem that I, as a newly baked, or perhaps already experienced, am meeting here, namely poor lawmaking. I would like to point out that the amendment of the Commercial Companies Code is another, because, if I remember correctly, the seventh amendment of this Code this year. It concerns all legal matters. These amendments are without a doubt, unthinkable, unrelated. I would therefore like to ask, without, of course, denying the need to make changes to the codex: When will the ruling party finally, seriously, honestly and without haste, begin to sort things out? [[♪ The bell ♪]] When do we stop making ad hoc changes with a view to adopting the regulations envisaged to resolve the ad hoc interests of the governing party? I would therefore like to call for a return to action of the Codification Commission, which was wound up in 2015.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u106	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Benedykt Zientarski, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! As a law professor at the Higher School of Euroregional Economy, I have a habilitated doctor in contact with scientists and practices. And actually, there's a few thoughts coming through here. The entire amendment is the destruction of the Commercial Companies Code. The commercial law project runs counter to the long-standing practice of the case law of Polish courts, including the Supreme Court, is conflicting for capital group structures. It is harmful to minority shareholders. It is intended to rule over capital groups of companies of the Treasury. Changes in the regulation of the supervisory board are a legislative, logical nightmare. That's one way to put it. No proposed change actually brings anything new except chaos (The Bell) and, unfortunately, seeking to exclude responsibility for decisions and even impunity. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Mariusz Gosek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u109	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Gentlemen of Ministers! Mr. Director! Thank you very much, because you can say finally. Finally, 21 years later, the biggest reform of the Commercial Companies Code was created. The lie is what you claim here that there was no consultation. First of all, 60 experts from different sides worked on this law and 60 outstanding experts can be assessed differently. 20 stakeholders took part in this consultation. It is also important to know that this reform primarily regulates what should rest on supervisory boards and has not yet rested, namely here I am talking about Article. 18 § 2 k.s.h., i.e. it introduces exclusion for persons who are criminals, convicted for paid protection, for corruption. Today, if this procedated bill comes into force, they will no longer be able to sit in commercial law companies and you know it, they will not be able to sit on supervisory boards. And to you, one sentence, [[♪ The bell ♪]] for the honourable Member has indicated that the Council does not issue binding instructions. I'll read your article. 21.2 § 2: The parent company shall issue a binding order, Madame, in writing or electronic form, under annulment. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. Please read the bill because you used to be a judge. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u110	Thank you very much. Is Tadek Cymanski in the room? I don't think he's here. Tadeusz isn't here. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u111	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The topic is very serious because it is de facto about giant money and about the ease of business. Let me just remind you that in the days of the PiS according to Doing Busines, in terms of the ease of doing business, in this respect Poland has fallen by several positions. This bill, in my opinion, at some moments, complicates it even more. There are many vague records, e.g. the role and position of the lead company, the responsibility of supervisory boards and members of the board. We need to answer these questions. And the second thing, ladies and gentlemen. The legal system must be sustainable and stable. If he is neither sustainable nor stable, it is very difficult to talk about the development of entrepreneurship. Let me remind you that we have for 25 years the lowest level of investment in Poland. What is your great disadvantage is that you throw away the bill every time... Consultations - if we are thinking of something that is sustainable and stable - should take a long, long time, so that we do not have to improve legislation quickly afterwards. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u112	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets of Minister Maciej Małecki. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna start by correcting the obvious lies, because I'm gonna tell you honestly, I'm sorry that these things fall out of the opposition's mouth. I'm putting this on the back of my... I would like to explain it in such a way that it was not wrong for you to lie so that from this place you would consciously use the untrue. I look at Mrs Barbara Dolniak. The second Member seems to have left the Chamber, although he is asking questions on all matters. I am rather counting on the fact that the fact that you have not read this law, which has not come from your own mouth, has resulted from the fact that you have not read it. Well, you have said that you have alleged that we are introducing the possibility of giving orders to a subsidiary by a parent company not in writing. I'll read you the article. 21.2 § 2: The parent company shall issue a binding order in writing or electronic form under annulment, Member. [[Applause]] What's more, we point out that we define a directory of requirements that this command must meet in order to be binding. This is expected by the parent company to conduct a subsidiary in the performance of a binding order. The order must include the interest of a group of companies which justifies the execution by a subsidiary of that order. It must determine the expected benefits or damages of the subsidiary which will result from the execution of the order of the parent company, if any. And now one more very important thing. As regards the envisaged injury, it must be specified the manner and time limit for the recovery of that damage to the subsidiary by the parent company within a period of not more than 2 years. You've been using the wrong word. There are many general statements from this speaker that something does not like. Ladies and gentlemen, another charge is that the State Treasury will now form parent companies. I would like to inform you that amendments to the provisions of the Art. 21.1 to 21.16 does not apply to the Treasury. To put it simply, if the State Treasury or any other owner has shares in a group of companies, a group of non-formalized companies, it is not a parent company in this area. For example, PKP SA may be a parent company vis-à-vis subsidiaries, excluding companies that are public companies in this group. In the case of PKP it is PKP Cargo, as it has been listed on the stock exchange since 2013. Ladies and gentlemen... [[What happens to this company then?]] Madam, I have a request for you to read the bill first, because you really... I hope you told the lie from that podium because you didn't read it, and that you didn't deliberately lie. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been an objection from the opposition that there will be additional bodies in the form of supervisory committees. Please. The main thing is that the Supervisory Board may set up committees for certain areas of the company's activities. It's an investment committee, an audit committee. It's a little bit like that, already explaining to you as very, very approachable as the High House creates committees. If the board of directors were to deal with everything in a large group of companies, it would be as if the Sejm were dealing with the regulations of every bill here and not in committees. Mrs Dolniak also very manipulatively took my statement from the context for one of the newspapers. To answer the journalist's question, how companies, groups of companies, parent companies... These solutions can improve business performance. I gave an example from a pandemic. Let me repeat to you this example that is no longer out of context. Let's say we have a group of clothing companies and we have a lockdown. There are closed shops, shopping malls, that's what happened. As part of this group of companies, some companies cope better with entering into online sales, others - worse. Some are more efficient in getting the market online, others are not. This example, which I gave, described exactly this situation: that in the case of a group of companies, parent companies and subsidiaries, very fast business decisions can take place. Why? To save these companies, to give them better tools to operate on a competitive market. Let me stress that one more time. Maybe you want to reject this project because we're tightening up laws against people who are convicted of bribery for active, passive, paid protection. Such persons will not be allowed to sit on the boards of companies. This is one of the records of our project. There was a charge. You've been laughing at this country. That's sad, too. At first, I was really hoping that we would be discussing substantively that there would be concrete examples, concrete proposals for change. I still count on it while working in committee because I firmly believe that the High House will not accept the motion to reject the project at first reading. But I will inform you again because it has rained many times in the debate on this law. You said some closed group of fictional people were supposed to be doing this. That was the context of one of the ladies' speeches. 60 experts, including a dozen professors, were invited to visit all the cathedrals of commercial law. There were letters inviting 100 law firms to consult. There have been remote conferences, including in difficult times pandemics, with numerous economic chambers. I am also surprised that these comments you have tracked today, such as: it's a command given to a subsidiary, which doesn't have to be written, experts and lawyers all over Poland didn't notice. And you see that. Next thing you know, the charge that if someone's not at the board meeting, this board can take place and work. Ladies and gentlemen, during the pandemic, we have opened up the opportunity to participate remotely, to participate electronically in the Supervisory Board meeting, and this still applies. Even if someone doesn't go to the board meeting, but on the phone we're not splitting up with today, there's a connection to this meeting, too. Mr Dariusz Olszewski - thank you very much. This is a very substantive question, concerning sport sponsorship and the impact of the opportunities offered by the institution of a group of companies, on the promotion of sport. Yeah, it gives you more opportunities. It gives us the possibility of coordination. It's a scale effect. I hope that this will be beneficial not only for Polish sport, but also for Polish culture, for other CSR activities. Another thing. Let me remind you... Because there were also words about the cost of advisors. Yes, we want to provide supervisory boards with the possibility of using advisors so that supervisory boards can get information not only from the company's board of directors, but also so that they can verify this information. And what you are mocking today - perhaps if in GetBack the supervisory board were obliged and responsible in the real way we want to introduce here, for the supervision of the company, and had the opportunity to use advisors, there would be no scandalous negligence. Let me remind you, it was the Law and Justice that prepared the law that introduced the transparency of the costs of legal services, consulting and consulting. You were against those solutions, too. Ladies and gentlemen! The questions that were raised - because the opinion was difficult to address, and there were a lot of them - with a request for written form of course we would refer, but a lot of voices were such that the companies of the State Treasury did not work well that they had bad results. I understand that you, as an opposition, may feel this way, but I will repeat this because this is something that needs to be remembered and it must be said that PKN Orlen, during the pandemic, in the worst crisis after World War II, achieved a greater profit in 1 year than in your times for a total of 8 years. And this year PKN Orlen for the first half of the year has over PLN 4 billion in profit, and for 8 years of government Platform and PSL - 2.9 billion PLN. It's when, when... [[6,20...]] Better? Six, twenty... PLN 3.4 billion, Member, during the pandemic, lockdown. Mrs Orlen, during the Coronavirus pandemic in 2020 - once again - during the biggest economic collapse after World War II PKN Orlen led by President Daniel Obajtka earned PLN 0.5 billion purely more in profit than in 8 years of government by Donald Tusk and Ewa Kopacz. But you're gonna tell me this is PKN Orlen. Then I'll give you another example. Polish LOT Airlines in the worst year of aviation history, 2020, achieved higher revenues than in each of the selected years of the Platform and PSL governments. This is another example, but I'm not gonna get into it anymore because I don't want to bully you. Let's focus on the bill. I still invite you to work extensively on this bill. We are open to arguments and we believe that the amendments tabled by you, by the opposition, can improve something, can make positive changes to the project that we have prepared, because that is the work in the High House, in the plenary room and in the committees, and to this work of the State once again I invite you in spite of these malicious, semi-truths and obvious untruths, which today on the part of the opposition fell from this speaker. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u114	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 31 of the agenda: First reading of the Senate draft law amending the law - Code of Civil Procedure (Print No 1225). I ask you, Senator Richard Bober, to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u115	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Higher House of the Polish Parliament, I am pleased to present to you a draft law amending the law - Code of Civil Procedure. In fact, it concerns provisions relating to bail-out activities in the context of recovery on Polish farms. In view of the fact that there have been many irregularities in this area, the bailiffs acted on the basis of a regulation which was a regulation of the Minister of Finance, but in agreement with the Minister of Agriculture, nevertheless it was an act of lower order, the Senate of the Republic of Poland proposes that we write it in the form of a bill and that there should not be such situations as are and have taken place. I'm not saying 100%. , but in part the collections led to tragedy on family farms, not only ending with the cessation of agricultural activities, but also to personal tragedies of farmers. I would like to assure the High House that the trial of the bill in the Senate was a very long process, there was an adjournment in order to clarify certain provisions to consult with the various organisations that submitted comments on the bill submitted. I would also like to say that it was examined in agreement with representatives of the Ministry of Justice as well as the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. There was no major imbalance except one exception. I am bringing here and I ask the High House that this article, which says that at the moment when recovery concerns all the ingredients of the farm, it takes precedence over all the other points that relate to the individual components, is not really being processed, Minister, that we should accept... If we adopt this bill in this way, not in senate terms, we will lead to such situations that the bailiff will again have an advantage on this level of his activity. Once again, I would like to thank the High House and the Marshal for speeding up such an important bill, and I would ask the High House to adopt the bill - the Code of Civil Procedure in the introduction of the Senate bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u116	Thank you very much, senator. If the senator wishes to stay on this point, then it will be possible to refer to the speeches and questions later. Thank you very much, senator. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u117	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Senator! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present an opinion on the Senate draft law amending the law - Code of Civil Procedure, print No 1225. The draft law provides for the transfer of the arrangements contained in the Regulation of the Minister of Justice of 5 July 2017 on the identification of the items belonging to the farmer holding the holding which are not subject to enforcement to the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure. This project is inspired by the request contained in the individual petition to the Senate, in which attention was drawn, among others. to the fact that, in the light of constitutional requirements, any exemption from enforcement relating to animals and movable goods necessary for the running of an agricultural holding must be regulated at the statutory level. On the other hand, at the level of the implementing act, matters are currently regulated which affect both the right to courts - including its aspect, which involves guaranteeing the enforcement of a final judgment - and the protection of the creditor's property rights, which decides to initiate judicial execution against the farmer holding the agricultural holding. In addition, part of the provisions of the Regulation of 5 July 2017 go beyond the delegation of Article. 830 Civil Procedure Code. Following the proposed amendment, the rules on animals and objects belonging to a farmer holding a non-executable holding will regain the merit of constitutionality, more specifically: they will be structured according to the requirements of the standards set out in Article. 92. 1 and Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [1] shall apply mutatis mutandis. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 in conjunction with Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1st Constitution. The aim is also to increase the coherence of the legal system, as in the case of enforcement proceedings in the administration, the legislator has already identified those animals and movable goods which are excluded from enforcement if they are directed against the farmer holding the agricultural holding. The concept of statutory regulation of items belonging to the holding farmer which are not subject to enforcement and the rules governing the handling of such matters by the competent authorities should be assessed positively. This will undoubtedly increase the legal protection of farmers' debtors. However, the following issues should be considered for the project: the need to extend the deadline provided for in the proposed Article. 829 2 § 2 for the opinion of the Agricultural Chamber from 14 days to e.g. 21 or 30 days from the date of service of the summons and the appropriateness of requiring the bailiff to join the request for such an opinion of the minutes of seizure of the debtor's assets, together with information on the total amount of the debtor's claim, and the legal nature of the abovementioned opinions in the act and the possibility of verifying them by allowing evidence from the expert's opinion. The conclusion is that the adoption of the project in its current form will result in a reduction in the creditworthiness of farmers. Deficiencies of the existing § 5 of the Regulation is necessary simultaneously to direct executions to all immovable property where executions from one immovable property would allow the creditor to be satisfied. The aim should therefore be to extend the possibility of execution of property belonging to an agricultural holding where the creditor has a mortgage established for him by the debtor himself, or as soon as the execution from the real estate allows the creditor to be satisfied. A certain model for the protection of the debtor could be the solution adopted in Article. 952 1 § 1 and 4 of the Civil Procedure Code. Such solutions would make it possible to balance the interests of creditors and debtors without risking individual farmers benefiting from loans or bank loans at the same time. High Izbo! Taking into account the objections raised, the Law and Justice Club welcomes the draft law on the amendment of the Civil Procedure Code, print No 1225, and requests further work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u118	Thank you very much, sir. Now I ask Mrs Joanna Jaśkowiak to present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u119	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Civil Coalition regarding the Senate draft law amending the law - Code of Civil Procedure, contained in print No 1225. I would like to stress that the proposed changes are inspired by a petition submitted to the Senate last year. According to the applicant, the identification of the animals and objects belonging to the farmer who runs the holding and which are not subject to enforcement constitutes statutory matter. To date, the issue of exclusion from enforcement of certain items has been governed by the provisions of the Regulation of the Minister of Justice of 5 July 2017 on the identification of items belonging to the farmer holding which are not subject to enforcement. It should be accepted that, in the light of constitutional requirements, any exemption from enforcement, both in respect of animals and moving goods needed to run an agricultural holding, must be regulated at the statutory level. There is no doubt, therefore, that the regulation is a normative act in the lower order, which can only be used for the implementation of the law, and cannot replace it, supplement it, or modify the solutions adopted. Therefore, following the adoption of the proposed amendment, the rules on animals and objects belonging to a farmer holding a non-executable holding will have the merit of constitutionality. The content of the proposed amendments almost faithfully reflects the provisions resulting from the above-mentioned Regulation of the Minister of Justice. As regards corrections, they concern rather editorial changes or the need to adjust references or terminology. This proposal also provides for the repeal of the current Article. 830 Code of Civil Procedure because all regulations will be governed by the law - those which were regulated by the Regulation - and it will become simply redundant. It is also important to introduce inter-temporal rules, as the existing rules will apply to cases initiated under the previous rules. So that the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club very much asks for this project to be passed on in the form that has been sent through the Senate to further process, to carry out further work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u120	Thank you very much, Member. I now ask Mr Romuald Ajchler to present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u121	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Left Club, I submit my position on the resolution of the Senate amending the Civil Procedure Code Act. The revision presented by the Senate is relatively vague, but is very important from the farm farmer's point of view, when for various reasons it became a debtor. The project introduces 16 prohibitions into the Civil Code, among others. agricultural products and equipment for which execution is prohibited. This applies to animal species such as dairy, meat, horses, pigs, sheep, poultry, fur animals and others, including the tools needed for the proper running of the farm. High Izbo! Each of us in the past saw the malfunctioning of these provisions of the Civil Code when the farmer became a debtor for various reasons and the bailiff entered his farm. These are cases of life. The farmer, buying agricultural machinery, received a loan from the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. Following the entry of the bailiff into his holding because the farmer had ceased to pay his obligations because of not the cases he was responsible for, but because of drought or other crop failure on the holding or area concerned, the sale of these purchased machinery was not sufficient to repay the loans. What happened on these farms? You have certainly seen many times in TV broadcasts, how the bailiffs acted in the execution of agricultural obligations. There was no malice on the part of the farmer here, but merely the impossibility of paying back the commitments that were before him. High Izbo! An example from Wielkopolska, near my parliamentary office. The farmer took credit for the purchase of agricultural machinery. After the agency's enforcement of the debt, the bailiff led to the fact that this farm no longer exists today. It is not enough that the bailiff sold the machines and the inventory, yet - because it did not have enough money - he was about to take up agricultural land and also sold agricultural land. Unfortunately, at the time he was selling, the land on the market was actually very cheap. The fact that the bill that the Senate project crosses this situation, that we are moving the regulation of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Agriculture to the Act, means that this idea is going in a very good direction and perhaps in a moment it will counteract those practices that have been applied until now. High Izbo! The left goes against these expectations and we will support the bill presented, but it would be worthwhile, Mr. Marshal, to discuss it more. I was familiar with many opinions, consultations that the Senate had conducted, and surprisingly the comments that were not in agreement with these decisions were relationships or bailiff associations, i.e. those who made the most money so far. But it cannot be accepted that this is at the expense of the farmer, at the expense of his hard work, which has even led to a situation in which he was taking his own life for this very reason. We can avoid all these cases by quickly debating the bill. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u122	Thank you very much, sir. There is a co-author of this bill, Senator Bober, who will certainly address all the issues. And now Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u123	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Mr. Senator! I have the pleasure and the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives on the Senate bill amending the Act - Code of Civil Procedure, print No 1225. The project under investigation concerns the identification of animals and objects belonging to the farmer holding which are not subject to enforcement - so far it has been governed by the provisions of the Regulation of the Minister of Justice of 5 July 2017 on the identification of objects belonging to the farmer holding which are not subject to enforcement - and on the repeal of Article. 830 Law of 17 November 1964 - Code of Civil Procedure, as this provision has become redundant. It must be accepted that, in the light of constitutional requirements, any exemption from enforcement of animals and movable goods needed to run a farm must be regulated at the statutory level. They are currently regulated by the Regulation of the Minister of Justice on the identification of items belonging to the farmer holding which are not subject to enforcement. The regulation is a normative act which can only serve the enforcement of the law. It must not replace, supplement or modify the solutions adopted in it. Therefore, the proposed amendments are justified. The rich case law of the Constitutional Tribunal clearly clarifies the relationship between the law and the regulation. It was rightly noted that Art. 92. 1 of the Constitution provides that the authorisation to issue a regulation is to be determined by the competent authority. The degree of precision required by the basic law therefore excludes the so-called. Blanket authorizations are also incomplete. The provisions authorising this type of defect, in particular those which affect the requirement of detail in terms of the substance or content, do not satisfy the constitutional model referred to above. In accordance with the Article cited above. 830 The Civil Code of Procedure of the Minister of Justice, in agreement with the Minister for Agriculture and the Minister for Finance, is required to specify in the regulation which items belonging to the farmer holding the holding are not subject to enforcement. This authorisation does not merely contain any guidance on the content of the implementing act, it refers to matters that affect both the right to court in that aspect of it, which involves guaranteeing the enforcement of a final judgment and the protection of the creditor's property rights, which decides to initiate judicial execution against the farmer holding the agricultural holding. It is also important to note that some of the provisions of the Regulation of 5 July 2017 go beyond that delegation. In conclusion, the transfer to the Law of Solutions which have so far been included in the Regulation of the Minister of Justice of 5 July 2017 on the identification of items belonging to a farmer holding a holding which is not subject to enforcement, which contains almost the provisions contained in the Regulation, in addition to terminology or editorial corrections, is considered reasonable and necessary in view of the need to ensure the transparency and regularity of the position of legal standards in this regard. In addition, we agree with the extension of the deadline for issuing by the competent farmhouse, as mentioned by the senator's colleague, an opinion on the appropriateness of excluding from enforcement surplus livestock or items in more than the provisions of the Article. 829 Code of Civil Procedure, from 14 days to 21 days and the elimination of (the bell) of the regulation providing that the provisions governing the exemption from enforcement shall not apply if the execution is simultaneously directed to all property belonging to the holding operated by the debtor. At this point, I would like to appeal to all farmers who are in debt for ASF and avian influenza to benefit from this article, which was prepared by the Senate, in print No.1225, and to get acquainted with it - it is what the bailiff cannot take away from them - and they turned to the agricultural chambers, because it is the agricultural chambers that are consulting these proposals. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u124	Thank you very much, sir. I would now ask you to present the position of the Confederate Group, which Mr Krzysztof Tuduj will do.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u125	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Senator! High Izbo! I was to commend the government, the rulers, that they submit a good bill, but this is not an initiative of the rulers, but of the individual, submitted by the higher House. But I commend the fact that such regulation has quickly become a subject of discussion. The essence of the regulation is to transfer the catalogue of items not subject to bail-out if they are objects of the farmer holding the holding. There is a transfer from the Regulation of the Minister of Justice to the Act of Law, which is to the Code of Civil Procedure. This is very important because of the hierarchy of legal acts, because of constitutional order. The point is that these rights should be in the statutory rank. The Regulation should only clarify them or additionally clarify them and not constitute them. This is also in line with the numerous decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal. This should be seen as a step in the right direction, ordering the legal order. Especially important are also the goods protected in the submission we are talking about. These protected goods are animals and objects which are particularly important for the functioning of the agricultural holding. We're not dealing with a collision. When debt, debt recovery, bailiff execution occur, the bailiff simply tries to accomplish his task, seize and recover as much assets as possible. He may not know himself, and he often doesn't know how a farm works, which is important to him. He does not know that such actions can deprive a farmer of his ability to earn future income. It is simply about looking far-reaching to get the farmer out of debt and calm his situation. So that this regulation needs to be assessed positively. Raising the level of protection of farmers in terms of enforcement, as far as these things are concerned, is a positive assessment. We will support this submission. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u126	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Zimoch will present the position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u127	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Mr. Senator! The draft law on the amendment of the law - Code of Civil Procedure was drawn up as a result of an individual petition to the Senate. The petitioner rightly proposed amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure, because I would quote that the identification of animals and objects belonging to a farmer holding a holding which is not subject to execution is statutory matter. The constitution requires this, and it's strange that the Ministry of Justice hasn't noticed it in four years. Even the minister's best regulation should not, moreover, replace the law. The Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 supports the solution contained in print no.1225. It is appropriate to transfer almost accurate, on the basis of: copy and paste regulations concerning animals and objects of a farmer holding a holding which is not subject to enforcement, from the Regulation of the Minister of Justice of 2017 directly to the Code, while deleting one of its articles. This project, in my opinion, should be adopted on a mini-max basis, minimum words, maximum good law. We appreciate the work of the Senate, but it is worth highlighting the civic power of petitions. The petitioner allowed the processing of his personal data, so it is worth congratulating him. It's about Mr. Kamil Łagocki. He knows the issue perfectly well, because he's a bailiff, as far as I know. In support of the petition, he stressed: the regulation should not regulate the facts for which a law is required. The regulation should only be issued for the purpose of implementing the law, not replacing it. The issue of exemptions from the execution of agricultural objects should be regulated by the law. The proposed law meets the requirement to regulate rights and obligations in the legal act of the statutory rank and the request for consistency of the legal system. Give it up for the petitioner. The Senate must have thanked me. Sejm bows once again for Mr. Kamil and we invite you to cooperate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u128	Thank you very much. On this, the list of Members who presented the positions of clubs and circles has been exhausted. We're going to ask questions. Would any of your fellow Members like to join this list again? If not, I'm closing the list. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute plus. I would therefore like to ask Mr Mirosław Suchon.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I won't take a minute because I have a very specific question for the senator. Mr. Senator! During the examination of this project, you have certainly wondered and examined how wide this legislation may be, as many cases may apply to a project that you have sent to the Sejm. I would very much ask you to provide information on how many cases - statistics - may affect your problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u130	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u131	Dear Marshal, Dear Senator, representing the Senate of the Republic of Poland! High Izbo! It is appropriate and appropriate to consider the draft transfer of the provisions of the regulation to the law and thus to give them legal status. The problem is a very difficult matter, because we are talking about the execution of live animals. Therefore, we will have a statutory obligation to withdraw from the execution of the contracted part of the stock which is the main object of the agricultural production of the holding, the basic stock. On the other hand, the problem of payment obligations appears to remain to be settled. If I could possibly ask for an opinion on this, I would be obliged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u132	Thank you very much. Mr Romuald Ajchler. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u133	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the senator. Mr. Senator, Art. 2 of the bill submitted says: The existing provisions apply to enforcement proceedings initiated and not completed before the date of entry into force of this Act. Mr Ziejewski presented a problem that occurs in the countryside, particularly in debtors and creditors. It would be worth considering this problem in this bill. Doesn't it argue with art? Two? Do you see the possibility of helping those farmers who are already being executed and who could benefit from the benefit of this law if it were to be applied a little more (the bell)? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u134	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Sebastian Kaleta will now have the opportunity to address the positions put forward and the questions asked. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The matter we are discussing and the way we are holding this debate are rare in our parliament in recent years. The Senate is submitting a legislative proposal, which is in fact an endorsement of the actions which the Minister of Justice has taken for several years. Namely, the draft law transferring - as here also indicated in speeches - almost one to one solution contained in the regulation, firstly, indicates that the regulation of the Minister of Justice protects farmers in a good way. This regulation was the first element of the reform of the enforcement system, which is very successful because, on the one hand, we have increased the protection of people who remain in the debtor's relations and for whom the bailiffs perform their activities, legal guarantees of proper treatment, dignity, and the preservation of assets that will allow them to recover from their debts so as not to deepen this situation and fall into a spiral of debt which results in poverty. These changes, which are proposed, therefore, have the approval of the government, because how else can the government refer to a situation in which this parliament wants to transfer to a higher-ranking act the solution that this government has proposed and applies. Secondly, I would like to stress that the changes that have been introduced in the judicial enforcement system, including as regards the protection of farmers, today can be clearly assessed as the great success of our country. There are no more pathologies that were criticized by public opinion many years ago when we saw dramatic scenes when bailiffs received basic objects from farmers or households in general. At the same time, as I am proud to say, despite the elimination of pathology, the results of execution have improved significantly. In the following years, since the reform, we have seen a very high increase in the effectiveness of executions as regards each factor. Even if the effectiveness of the execution as an amount enforced up to the amount notified is currently 18.6% , where in 2014 it was barely 12.2%. There are also more cases completed with effective executions from among those reported - this year this ratio reached 27.1%. So this growth is significant. At the same time, which is very important, the number of complaints has decreased. So we are dealing with the civilization of the judicial execution process in Poland. I hope that the rules that have been effectively protecting Polish farmers for several years, by raising the profile of these rules, by transferring them to the law - the Code of Civil Procedure - will allow farmers to settle their arrears in peace if they arise, and in this way the stability of their farms will be preserved despite the difficulties encountered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u136	Thank you very much, Minister. It's a rare match in this courtroom. And now if Senator Richard Bober would like to speak, this is the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u137	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for this discussion that has taken place here and for supporting the proposal submitted by the Senate. I would like to point out that this is one of the stages, because we will not put this whole situation in order, which is in the area of agriculture and agricultural activity. I think that the next step should be to create a guarantee fund that responds to such unforeseen situations and helps farmers in such situations. These are often unintended situations. Someone hasn't paid someone, there are deadlines, someone even resorts to various parabanking institutions, where the first months are free of interest, while with a chain like this, when a farmer sells his agricultural goods and doesn't get paid, it results in bailiff executions. There was indeed a reservation from one parliamentary club regarding these records, indeed financial institutions also lobbied to maintain this record. I would like to point out, Minister, that if there are more difficult situations, we have an agricultural restructuring agency which can also guarantee such loans to the farmer. And I don't think there's any concern about the rule that if the recovery concerns all the assets, she has priority. Therefore, once again, I ask the High House to accept the draft as submitted by the Senate. We've extended the deadline for the farmhouse. It's whether it's 21 days or 30 days. The High House may recognize that. We have proposed an extension of 7 days, up to 21 days. The Agricultural Chambers considered that this deadline was appropriate and they were able to make an assessment in order to give an answer, to give an opinion to the bailiff. How many are involved at this point? This is Mr Aichler's question. I cannot say, but I fear there will be more and more problems, Mr President. At these galloping prices of agricultural inputs and other commitments that are imposed on agricultural holdings, these problems may be increasing. The sooner we adopt these rules, the better it will be for different types of farming activities. Indeed, the situation was such that the farmer had a contract, a certain price, a signed contract. Something extended and the bailiff came in and bid for half of it or 70% of it. Of course, these were all kinds of benches. In some percentage this happened, Minister, there is no doubt. Perhaps after all the situations that have been mediaized, there is no more such almost criminal activity, but they have taken place. Farmers are well aware of such cases. Therefore, I ask once again that we adopt a bill submitted by the Senate as High House. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u138	Thank you very much. Senator Ryszard Bober, who represented the Senate of the Republic of Poland on this issue, concluded his speech. The discussion is closed. Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, directs the Senate's draft law amending the Act - Code of Civil Procedure, contained in print No.1225, to the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications for consideration. We proceed with the examination of item 32. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science and some other laws (Print No. 1569). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Sławomir Gadomski to present the justification for the bill. Minister, can you hold on a second? Because you'd like to disinfect it. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Sławomir Gadomski: Great, because I need a moment to organize.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u139	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Sorry for the trouble. I'm ready now. Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased on behalf of the Minister of Health to present the principles of the bill amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science, especially in the part related to new solutions, let's call it loyalty, in the field of education of medical students. This bill consists, you can say, of three parts. We wrote it, developed it together with the Ministry of National Education, Science and Higher Education. These three parts are primarily part of the Minister of Health for Student Credits. This is a new solution for students willing to start training in medical sciences. The second part of this law is a solution to enable more institutions to train in medical and dental sciences. The third part is student credit solutions, let's call it standard. First of all, I will provide a justification for this part related to medical loans, which is the part constructed by the Minister of Health. I will possibly ask your marshal to supplement the Ministry of Science's representative with regard to education, extension of the number of universities and general loans. Ladies and gentlemen! These solutions, which we are proposing to you to consider in the area of student loans, have a basis, assumptions or certain conditions relating to the current situation. On the one hand, This is a situation where there is still, although much less, a desire to migrate young doctors, young medical graduates, and, on the other hand, there is a gap that we have in failing to meet the admission limits for courses of study, for courses of payment. We see that in free directions, on which we gradually increase admission limits, this competition is very large. They often get in or don't get in because they're below this threshold, high school graduates who really scored a lot of points, but still below this minimum level. We see such a gap because education in medical school is extremely expensive. Today, we estimate that the cost of education is 200 and 250 thousand. zł. The average annual tuition is 30.40,000. zł. And many of those who actually, you can say, were minimally below the threshold, do not choose to study paid. Some surveys, studies, if we add them to this, show that today young doctors, especially this group, have a migratory desire. It's probably a little different than a few years ago when we were dealing with this greatest migration of doctors. Indeed, we have decided in this situation certain staff shortages among doctors to take actions which, on the one hand, will provide further opportunities to increase admission limits for studies, on the other hand, will introduce some loyalty solutions, which will systematically bind graduates of medical students to later professional activities in Poland. If we look at this situation today with respect to certain forms of loyalty, it is another form that we want to bind doctors, specialists in some way. Introduced not so long ago, in 2018, 2019, the loyalty voucher was the first of those solutions, which is an optional solution, as well as in the procedated student loan bill. This option allows for an increase in the remuneration paid by the resident doctor in exchange for the obligation to work back later 2 years in the public system. A similar solution is proposed in this law on credit institutions for medical studies. This loan is another form, apart from student loans, financial support for students, but it is not a form of material support such as social grants or grants. These forms, of course, remain in the education system. What is very important and what is the basic assumption is that the loan for medical studies for those willing to choose the form of paid studies will be available both for students starting medical courses again, as well as for those who continue to study paid in Poland. Probably the most important assumption of this law is that students who undertake or conduct medical studies in Polish on terms of remuneration, if they choose to use this loan, will be given the possibility of partial or total remission after fulfilling certain conditions from the State budget. This remission, by simplifying these legal provisions, will be possible once two conditions have been met. Firstly, after having worked or worked in Poland after graduating at least 10 years in medical care providers who provide public-funded healthcare services, not only in public entities, because we are talking here generally about those who provide public-funded benefits. The second condition is the obligation to obtain specialization, the title of specialist during this period in the field of medicine considered to be a priority on the day on which the doctor starts specialization training. These are two conditions which form the basis for partial or total redemption of the loan. This, of course, seems to be the most attractive form of support in this process, whereas this loan is a loan which is preferential and not exclusively linked to this possibility of redemption, but also with low interest rates, the possibility for borrowers to apply for early repayment, the extension of this repayment period after the completion of their studies or the possibility of reducing the monthly instalment in the event of a difficult life situation of the borrower. These solutions go even further. Partial remission of the loan is also possible after completion of the study in the event of a difficult situation of the borrower. Here we have predicted what this depends on and what the conditions should be. What else? This may be technical issues, but the bill provides that loans will be handled by the Crediting Fund for Medical Studies conducted at Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. As I said earlier, the funds in this fund will come primarily from special subsidies from the state budget, which are set out annually in the Budget Act. I think that this discussion today can be broader than just on issues related to student loans. However, I would like to signal right now that these solutions are not our overall response to the problems of the shortage of medical personnel. It's one of the bricks, one of the other elements that we're realizing. We are still planning to increase admission limits for free medical studies. We're gonna keep working. Today, for example, we spoke at the subcommittee meeting about modern forms of education. We will continue to work on making education, investment and medical universities more attractive, and the clinic and teaching base, whether from national funds in the coming years or from EU funds. A large component in support of education processes, modern education, development of the teaching base, development of the clinical base is reflected in the National Plan for Reconstruction. A huge amount of nearly PLN 3 billion will be allocated primarily to increase the educational and clinical capacity of universities to train more students, medical students in general. This law on medical credit applies only to the medical direction today, while many of the solutions we propose also apply to medical courses and other medical professions. Ladies and gentlemen! After consulting this law, after a really long discussion with the environment, this law on medical credits was well adopted by the academic community. Today, at the meeting of the subcommittee, the President of the KRAUM, the Conference of Rectors of Academic Medical Universities, expressed his approval for this law, because this is another opportunity for these universities to increase their potential and number of educated students. If the Marshal permits, I will cast my vote to the Minister of Science on matters relating to the increase in the number of universities.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u140	Mr Wojciech Murdzek, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education and Science, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The particular state of the pandemic has revealed one very important thing - or strengthened this message - because we have observed that it is easier to build a hospital and equip it than to answer a question about doctors. Indeed, the number of doctors clearly needs to be increased, and we know that due to the inertia process it is necessary to take into account not only the period of studies but also the whole process of obtaining specialisation. Practically this is the level of 12 years, so what we are initiating today will produce fruit after a long period of time. Of course, action to encourage the improvement of the quality of education, the introduction of new technologies in the field of education, the opening of further courses, changes in limits is a long list. They are not being undertaken now, due to the pandemic, but this process is ongoing. Discussions are also ongoing about making the profession more attractive. One solution is to open up and create wider opportunities for training doctors, but taking into account the great concern for this - and I would like to emphasise - that this thinking about quantitative matters does not result in any liberalisation or reduction of this concern about the quality of education, because it must, of course, go hand in hand. Therefore, we are amending the provisions of the 2018 Act, which conditioned the way of teaching in the disciplines related to medical sciences. As you read into this 2018 law, you will see that the process of caring about the way of education was already included in it, but then we assumed that after January 2023, in accordance with Article. 53, permission to set up studies will be available to a university that holds a scientific category A+, A or B+ in the discipline of medical sciences or health sciences. This shows that there was a certain threshold in this thinking process: what to do after January 2023 as regards the education process. On the other hand, we change the provisions of the Act in such a way that we create two time spaces. By 31 December 2022, it will be possible, by virtue of this amendment of the law, to establish a university's medical or dental studies, which, according to the date of the application for permission to set up these studies, fulfils two conditions as an alternative: firstly, it has the authority to give a doctoral degree in medical science or in health science, a more classic approach, secondly: it conducts studies in at least one course preparing for the pursuit of medical professions. There are universities with very rich, good quality work, for example. training of nurses, and such universities fulfil this condition, i.e. they educate the training course for medical professions. But they must also meet the second condition: to conduct scientific research in the discipline of medical science or in the discipline of health science, carried out by academic teachers employed at a given university, which is the basic place of work. So this staff can't be accidentally invited to cooperate. The requirement is that a minimum of 75% staff employed in the university were staff employed in it as a basic workplace. Of course, there is no liberalisation in terms of standards for medical training. These processes are supervised by the Polish Accreditation Commission. I would like to inform you that we are in the process and that we are already in agreement - we are waiting for documents - for accreditation for the PKA when it comes to the American side. If you were following this, it was a situation where we had accreditation, but it was given by the Americans. Now we take a step further and get - practically the whole process has ended - accreditation for PKA, i.e. recognition that PKA is precisely this quality watchman and will be able to control these medical directions qualitatively. The second timespace relates to the period after January 2023. According to the submitted project, the permit will be available to the university, which, according to the date of submission of the application, has a scientific category A+, A or B+ in the discipline of medical science or health science or conducts studies in at least one course in preparation for the professions referred to in Article. 68, and has minimal scientific category C in medical science or in health science. These are the main assumptions for this space just giving more opportunities for medical education, but with concern for quality. In the context of the whole project, it is still worth noting that there are also decisions, in principle we are correcting certain provisions in terms of ease and reduction of bureaucracy for students seeking scholarships. There are no significant new solutions that would redefine the whole process, whereas in relations with commercial banks, even this process of proving that you are a student, it was complicated, it required additional papers, also analysis of banks. After consulting the banks, with the student environment, we also introduce the possibility that in this limited aspect, the banks can use our POL-on system and simply do not have to torture students anymore, because they are able to check it out themselves. And here are a few technical solutions that do not change the essence, but reduce bureaucracy and introduce solutions that are more friendly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u142	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Krzysztof Szulowski to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u143	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club on the government draft law amending the Law on Higher Education and Science and some other laws, print No 1569. The medical staff deficit has been a problem in our health system for years. Increasing the availability of these staff is one of the priorities of the Government of Law and Justice from 2015 onwards. Hence, for example, increasing admission limits for medical studies. The trend is clearly increasing, but the increase in these limits and other actions still do not meet the growing demand of patients for health services and the effects are evident after years. At the same time, the Republic of Poland remains a country which constitutes an attractive market for the acquisition of highly qualified medical personnel, while losing it. Leaving a qualified doctor results in restricting access to medical services in the country. It's not. also of course good for patients who expect high standards of medical care and access to high-class specialists. The proposed solutions are intended to be part of a health policy, as well as a response to a shortage of health professionals. An important proposal is to make the conditions for universities to obtain permission to establish medical and dental studies, which will translate into an increase in both the number of universities conducting studies in these fields, as well as the number of students and graduates who, after graduating from their studies and specialization, will feed on the ranks of Polish medical staff. The priority will, of course, be to ensure a sufficiently high level of education while maintaining the conditions and quality of education, as declared by the Minister. Another proposal is the support from the state budget of those who undertake and receive paid studies in Polish for medical purposes with the obligation to work them later in entities which provide health services financed by public funds. So it's called. Loyalty commitment. In addition to the financial support of students taking up and taking up these studies, the proposed solution will help to reduce the phenomenon of emigration of Polish university graduates who are doctors and increase the number of specialist doctors, in particular in the areas of medicine considered as priority. In addition, the introduction of this support will be an opportunity for qualified persons to acquire a doctor's profession, who, despite having obtained good results on the maturity exam, did not get into a fixed-mode medical course and which, among other things, did not. because of the lack of sufficient financial resources, they could not undertake these studies for payment. When such students benefit from a medical degree loan, it will be possible even to cancel the loan completely if the doctor fulfils the following cumulative conditions, which the Minister also referred to: the obligation to study after they have completed for a period of not less than 10 years over 12 consecutive years from the date of completion of their studies and the obligation to obtain a specialist title during that period considered as a priority on the day on which the doctor started specialization training. Other important changes in the bill are the differentiation of the period of student benefits depending on the duration of the studies, as well as the clarification of the way in which this period is determined, the attractiveness of the student credit system for creditors, the improvement of the process of verification of student and doctoral status during student credit and medical college loans based on the POL-on system. Designed solutions aimed at financial support for students, increasing the number of universities conducting medical and dental studies, and thus the number of students, reducing the phenomenon of emigration of Polish university graduates who are doctors and increasing the number of specialist doctors, in particular in the areas of medicine considered as priority, we consider it good, mitigating in the perspective of the problems of our health system. Therefore, the Law and Justice Club supports the proposed project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u144	Thank you very much. Mr Hardie-Douglas will present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u145	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! The bill submitted is an attempt to correct the poor situation in healthcare. One of the causes of this condition, as we know, is the dramatic shortage of doctors. Poland is at the very end of OECD countries in terms of the number of doctors. We've got 2.4 doctors out of 1,000. population, while the average in OECD countries is 3.5. The reason is partly for emigration of medics. Currently, one third of the residents are considering emigration from Poland. According to the authors of the bill themselves, during the PiS regime, from 2015 to 2019 the total number of doctors educated in our country whose professional qualifications were recognised in the European Union and Norway increased by around 63%. After the opinion of the LEP, most doctors receive a job offer in EU, UK or Norway. They are offered better wages, easier access to specialisation, better social conditions, respect, protection. They're well-educated, they speak languages, so they're leaving. We have one of the lowest employment rates in the healthcare sector in Europe. Over 10 years, between 2011 and 2020 the evaluation of medical procedures increased by only 11%. which makes hospitals already indebted to about PLN 18 billion. Medical rescue is breaking down. Poorly paid young doctors are burdened with very many on-call calls. Health care should be an absolute priority in state spending in the coming years. That's not what's happening. The evolution of the share of GDP in healthcare expenditure is far too slow. Globally, healthcare expenditure is increased by around 5% each year. which causes, that despite a little more expenditure on health in Poland, developed countries escape us even more. The authors of the law want to increase the number of medical students while trying to stop doctors in Poland. They propose: to increase the number of universities that could open up studies in medical sciences and dentistry; to encourage young people to study medicine, which is to be used by the new system of scholarships and loans; to stop the emigration of doctors, which is to be used to link loans and loans with the obligation to work them off in Poland. The authors propose both to modify existing student loans, which should actually make them more accessible, even by establishing a fixed margin of student loans at a maximum of 2% , as well as the support from the State budget of those who undertake to take medical studies for consideration in order to oblige them to subsequently work off loans in entities which provide public-funded healthcare services. They want a loan for med school. Such a loan will be an opportunity for people who have passed their high school exams, but who have not been able to study in a fixed-mode medical course. Often these people are unable to study for payment because of insufficient funding. Indeed, such a loan for medical studies can result in a significant increase in the number of students in a permanent manner. After all, there is an annual availability of permanent studies, and the number of these places can be significantly increased. Of course, we should ask ourselves whether these measures will significantly hinder the flow of young doctors. Without a strong qualitative change in the financing of health care, without raising the wages of residents, without making it easier for them to obtain specialized places they will leave Poland anyway. The risk of repayment of the borrowing will likely be calculated into job proposals received from employers from Western Europe. Nevertheless, we are inclined to support these ideas. However, another idea appeared in the draft law - the idea of extending the number of universities that can educate in the medical and dental fields to professional universities. The Act is intended to allow vocational universities to train in the courses assigned to them so far to studies with a general academic profile. Doctors could be trained by professional institutions which already conduct studies in at least one course of preparation for the medical profession, i.e. profession of nurse, midwife, physiotherapist, etc. The training of doctors requires, as we know, multi-directional academic staff, both multi-branch theorists and clinicists. It requires many studios, research facilities, laboratories, various equipment, but above all - solid clinical facilities. That's not going to be guaranteed by professional universities. The bill will lead to the creation of a doctor-like product. In 2016, the then Deputy Minister of Health, also from PiS, Jarosław Pinkas, answered the questions of MEPs, also from PiS, about the action of the Ministry on increasing the number of specialists, said: We are moving away from felcherisation of medicine. Unfortunately, the current idea is moving in this direction. Let us open new medical universities, help to expand already existing universities - the Minister said about it - let us increase recruitment for studies, encourage to study medicine and stay after graduation in Poland, let us support indeterminate studies, but let us not try (the bell) to take shortcuts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u146	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic to present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u147	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Government submission is supposed to be a response to the dramatic lack of doctors in the Polish health system, i.e. the lack of elementary safety of Polish patients. We already know that this situation translates into loss of health and life for citizens. We have data on deaths and human dramas. The first category of data is excess deaths, and those in the last year were about 130 thousand in Poland. Of course, we have a pandemic, but COVID as such is responsible for about 73,000. Deaths. Others are the result of paralysis of the health care system caused by COVID, but in some cases also by staff shortages. The number of deaths in the SOR in Poland has increased almost threefold over the last five years. We could have a second category of data, a number of doctors, but no one here can give a fully verifiable number. The OECD recently showed data on the number of doctors and nurses per thousand. residents in the Member States. And so we have less than 2.4 out of 1,000 doctors. people, the least of the EU countries covered, and more only from Turkey and Colombia. The nurses are 5.1 out of 1,000. inhabitants, which also classify Poland at the gray end, only before Turkey, Colombia, Mexico, Latvia and Israel. According to OECD data, Poland has slightly over 90,000. doctors, in turn according to the data of the Chief Medical Chamber, we have over 140 thousand in Poland. professional doctors, except dentists. If you take this number for conversions, you could say that we have about 3.7 doctors per thousand. residents, which is basically better. So where is the 50,000 hidden? Doctors? Part is the result of the lack of reliable reporting to voivodships by health care institutions. In addition, the General Medical Chamber may overwhelm its data, because some doctors, e.g. Retired people, actively no longer engage in occupations. [[It's exactly the opposite.]] Will the planned increase in health contributions for many entrepreneurs solve this problem? According to the government's plans until 2027. Poland is expected to reach 7% GDP spent on health protection. According to the Left, it's not enough, and the path to this level is too long. The human problem isn't gonna solve it. What do we need? We need educated people, either in Poland or elsewhere... [[But the discovery.]] ...who will settle with us and treat Polish patients. And we need to stop doctors traveling abroad immediately. Doctors of residents and doctors who do not have the opportunity to expand their qualifications, you did not want to listen. The data from the European Commission show that between 2005 and 2019 9671 times the professional qualifications acquired in the Republic of Poland were recognised in the EU and Norway countries, which represents ca. Sixty-six percent increase. On average, 886 medical graduates educated in Poland. 27.2% The doctors surveyed have declared that they are currently considering the possibility of emigration. Residents are more likely to declare a migration plan compared to specialist doctors. So we're running away from young people's medical system, and the project doesn't answer that. But you want to educate more. From the academic year 2014/2015 to the academic year 2020/2021 the number of places in medical universities increased from 6784 to 9698, i.e. 2914 seats. You're going to expand the university circle entitled to apply for permission to set up medical and dental studies. The increase in the number of universities that will be able to apply for authorisation to carry out these studies after all the conditions under the regulation of the Minister for Science and Higher Education have been met is, according to the left-wing CP, subject to a high risk of reducing the quality of education. After all, we will not have academic teachers because of the introduction of these facilitations. Joint Committees: Education, Science and Youth and Health should work hard on this idea. Your second idea is to facilitate credit and diversify the duration of student benefits depending on the duration of your studies, and to clarify how this period is to be determined. Thinking about making it easier for students and young doctors to cancel student loans provided they provide work in Polish health care is good from an economic and human point of view. In July, I filed an interlocution on this matter. I didn't get the answer, but I understand that this project is the answer. Making the student loan system more attractive and increasing the availability of this product for students and PhD students - yes, reducing the quality of education - no. Similar work should be carried out in the case of nurses and other (The Bell) medical professions. The Polish health system is not the only doctor. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u148	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak will now present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Polska. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u149	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This bill is a classic example of the PiS's indolescence on the repair of the health system. Even if the diagnosis is correct, it's fatal. According to the Supreme Medical Chamber, around 60 thousand are missing in Poland. Doctors. And what does the government do? During this year's spring recruitment for medical specializations, the Minister predicted 11, 13 more places than in the previous period. It turns out that even if all these doctors finish this specialization, there won't be a single doctor in the voivodship. Is this what you do in a pandemic crisis? Is that what you do at a time when we have a huge shortage of doctors? Is this what you do when you nervously try to get doctors from abroad, even those who don't know the language? It's the same for medical school. This already completed academic year 2020/2021 can be characterized similarly as recruitments for specialisation. Only 139 new medical students in a situation where it was already known that there was a pandemic, when doctors were missing, when there were no medical rescuers. If we count this into voivodships, it turns out that there are several more voivodships per voivodship. But there's a second problem. The admission limits for medical studies laid down by the Ministry of Health are currently not covered in terms of candidates. It is estimated that about 2,000. places in each academic year are not planted, which is caused inter alia. the fact that some of these studies are paid. The current number of medical universities in Poland is quite large, but their potential is untapped. And here's the job for the government, for both the ministry. In this situation, the government, instead of correcting the system error, as evidenced by the previous number, goes further and wants further universities, this time professionally, to be able to educate medical practitioners. After all, non-medical universities can already educate doctors, the requirements are minimized. Question: "Is further mitigation desirable and are we going in the right direction?" The consequences of lowering doctor training standards will be borne by patients. Moreover, today is not a problem of law that prevents the opening of a new medical course in college, but the fact that it is hellishly difficult to do so by any university other than a specialised medical university. The above mentioned problems are e.g. signing contracts with hospitals operating clinics based on hospital departments. It's about hospitals, not university hospitals, for example. Voivodship where students can acquire practical skills and knowledge. Of course, I don't mind more universities being able to educate doctors, but it is necessary to maintain high standards of medical studies. I am afraid that the change proposed by the government does not guarantee this, and the whole concept will not deliver the expected results in the form of more doctors. Student loans for medical school. To be honest, it's been a long time since I've seen such a legislative monster. The provisions to obtain credit with the possibility of redemption are too complicated and too many are too complex, and the hasty signing of such credit may involve enormous problems in the future. If a high school graduate signs such a circus and his plans change in a few years, he could be in hell. Yes, credit may be helpful, but in extreme cases it can turn into a slave contract for several years. I believe that, due to numerous errors in the proposed project, there will be little interest in using this form of support. Today, we need a simple, transparent, universal support system for anyone who is going to medical school but who cannot afford it. Secondly, the issue of redemption of the loan must not be combined with the choice of specialisation before the start of the studies. On the contrary, there should be a system of support for doctors who choose to specialize. Our PSL proposal is very simple: you need to support with special scholarships so-called. niche and priority specialisations, in this case it can be made conditional on staying in the country of such a specialist, but also otherwise it is necessary to specify the provision of the article. 103d paragraph. Point 1 (1). The legal interpretation of this provision may lead to the conclusion that the requirement to provide health services financed by public funds relates only to the entity (the Bell) performing the medical activity and does not apply to professional practice. I'm almost done, Marshal, last sentence. Ladies and gentlemen! The migration of doctors can be reduced by introducing, first and foremost, solutions to improve the working conditions of doctors, not only in financial terms but also in organisational terms, and to facilitate the improvement of qualifications and professional development. This is today the main problem in the Polish health system in terms of the crisis of medical personnel. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Mr President, you do not know the law in force, because what you are talking about is already working.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u150	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Robert Winnicki will present the position of the Female Confederation Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u151	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On this bill and in general on this dilemma, which is the training of doctors, two systemic problems are colliding, which as Poland we face for 30 years, and unfortunately more government teams either do not want or cannot cope with this challenge. In terms of both doctor training and health care, the situation has reached, you can say, bottoms. Of course, the COVID crisis and the COVID policy of the government are an accomplice to this, it is clear, because the health lockdown today paralyzes it even more than it did before the COVID. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, this systemic problem we are dealing with is obvious. On the one hand, we can talk about the academic model for not only medical studies, which began after 1989. This academic model of education looks terrible today. I mean, we have huge hosts of people graduating from higher education who have no particular competence to pursue a particular profession in their lives. That's the truth. The mass of education in Poland coincided with a radical reduction in the quality of this education. The fact that they haven't been put up in the last 30 years... Of course, you're all smart. In this courtroom, but you've all been in charge for the last 30 years, and you're co-responsible for making it look so bad. On the other hand, priority areas and parcels needed for the nation as a whole, such as medical education, such as the training of doctors who are so dramatically lacking today, are simply lying. The unhealthy situation, of course, is that of one doctor's education. It's a cost. even PLN 1 million. It is about going through a certain process, all the degrees that this profession requires, of course, depending on specialization. Unhealthy is the situation where profits are private and costs are public. Ladies and gentlemen! That's not a problem. Only medical professions. What is more - I am unfortunately running out of time - the problem is above all the structure of the healthcare system. Nothing will help to regulate whether to assign doctors to work in Poland, although this makes sense in a situation (the Bell) where losses or costs should not be public and private profits. Without the liquidation of the NFZ-etowski system, without the liquidation of this inefficient, rachitic system, which was introduced by the left 20 years ago, we simply will not heal the health system, including we will not encourage doctors to stay in Poland to heal in Poland. It's fundamental, and that's where we start. Unfortunately, six years have passed without this reform, and today we are suffering from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u152	Mr Wojciech Maximowicz will present the position of the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u153	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I am very sympathetic to the civil servants of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education and Science, especially to Minister Murdzko, who replaced me as Secretary of State, because he must company something that is very poorly prepared, utopian, nonsense. Loyally, they have to do what they do. I don't get into complex student credit records, in this case five members of the Ministry of Health's management as educated in economics are certainly better experts than I am, I trust them. I'm sure one of them would be useful in any next government. They have a lot of experience in financing. The rest, however, unfortunately, is a problem. This part of the bill was normally subject to the legislative procedure, but the first part of the bill was quickly added to have two fatal errors. The first is a violation of the rules of legislation. This is too serious. The government bill went through the entire Committee of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers without the slightest consultation of the bodies empowered to consult, and concerns key issues. This is unbelievable. You can't rape the way you make the law. Even the Government Legislature Center had no chance to comment on this matter. The Second Fatal Error It is a completely absurd assumption that the law on higher education, developed in a common consensus in the former government of the United Right, is a solution to the law on higher education. I've only got three minutes, and no one in the government is going to be interested in the remarks of the former dean of the faculty of doctor education, the rector of the Collegium Medicum case. Who cares too much about this experience, how difficult it really is for more than 10 years to create good training for doctors. Ladies and gentlemen, what does Minister Niedzielski care about, which course of medical knowledge went through in a few months, and extremely? What does the Minister of Education and Science care about focusing on weakening university autonomy? It's decided about the university in every county - it's gotta be there. Here's to every non-academic professional school apart from honest medical science... Incredibly - from Humboldt - how can you separate such an important branch from medical science? Because, as the new text says in the article. Article 53 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 of this law, even if it teaches There's only physiotherapy, that's enough, that's enough. There's gotta be a category. It could be C, which means it's not enough. Ladies and gentlemen, these are unacceptable things. [[It can't be C.]] It could be, yeah, it says category. Ladies and gentlemen, all you have to do is hire people who have any work to do in health sciences. I call it a fatal mistake, and this is a great achievement: after 50 years we return to education in Poland of faculty. There is another aspect that makes this project utopia and causes that it will not actually be implemented. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Doctor training doesn't make any profit, practically never makes any university profit anywhere. And new, small universities, even with their investments, if they did, it's just a disaster. [[Applause]] And finally... Excuse me, Marshal, I'm trying as fast as I can. You're welcome. But today is a good time. Today is the inauguration of the academic year. I've already apologized to my rector for having to say it here, defending college and academics. The opinion of the academic community in the section on the organisation of medical training has been omitted. I believe that on the day of the inauguration of the academic year something extraordinary was done, because instead of respect for the environment Polish professors of medicine were insulted. I'm offended by that attitude, too. Polish medical authorities were offended, not allowing them to comment on the project. It's incredibly arrogant, but we're going to keep doing our job, we're going to educate real doctors, developing real medical science. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u154	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Magdalena Sroka will now present the position of the Agreement circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u155	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Today we are discussing the proposed amendments to the Higher Education Act. Mr Gadomski briefly presented the assumptions concerning student loans. These assumptions about directions are not the worst if even a few students want to benefit from this. We've been struggling with medical shortages for years, and we're all trying to take action one by one to increase the number of doctors. Increasing the limits in college is a good direction, but this requires incentives for students and facilitations. Today, however, we are also discussing changes to the training of doctors. This project assumes that professional universities will be able to educate in the medical or dental fields. Do we really want to create professional schools for doctors? Minister Murdzek said that the desire to increase the number of medical personnel would not be a reduction in quality. I wouldn't exactly agree. After all, at the moment, medical studies are studies that, without scientific research, without clinical research or the use of the latest technologies, will not produce the expected results. We have a medical strike today. These people in the white town sit in front of the Prime Minister's office every day. Does such changes really have to be made without any consultation with the environment concerned? These are fundamental changes. They simply need to be consulted on such an important subject in a very broad way. So I don't think the desire to increase the quantity goes hand in hand with quality. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u156	Thank you very much. On this, the list of MEPs registered in order to present the positions of clubs and circles has been exhausted. 21 of your fellow Members joined the questions. If anyone else wants to join the list, you're welcome. [[One and a half minutes, please.]] Mrs. Member! It's never happened before that I've regulated time. On the other hand, because of the quantity and requests that there be no so-called. Time shifts, we'll set the time for 1 minute, and if it takes longer, then, of course, yes. The first question will be asked by Mr Paweł Hreniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u157	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! As we read in the explanatory memorandum of the draft law, from the academic year 2014 to the current year, 2020,2021, the number of places in medical universities increased by almost 3 000. So we have a noticeable upward trend, but unfortunately still despite a positive change it does not meet the growing demand for white medical personnel in Poland. Therefore, my question to the Minister: How does the Ministry estimate if the number of places in medical institutions should be increased to fully meet our health needs? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u158	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Rafał Adamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u159	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are discussing a draft law on amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science and some other laws. How great are the shortcomings in Poland among the medical staff, we all know very well. Any form of support to increase the number of doctors in our health care should above all be effective. Minister, has the Ministry calculated how many medical students will benefit from the proposal for student loans presented in the draft law? Please respond in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u160	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Jan Szopiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u161	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The attempts to tamper with higher education and the creation of legal gates do not in any way solve the problem of medical staff shortages that we have faced as a result of many years of negligence. In a short period of time, we present another law, this time aimed at introducing technical and vocational courses to the universities first of all, now medical courses. At the same time, rules are being created to close the road to training in teachers with 70 years of experience in the field. I do not know whether the contradiction of these rules is due to the activity of some lobby or merely the lack of imagination of officials creating further regulations. A question to the Minister asking for a written reply: How should it be understood to block the establishment of a medical university in Bydgoszcz based on existing facilities for training doctors, both theoretically and practically, in the light of the new rules created (the Bell) opening up such a path for technical universities, which so far had little to do with the direction of medical training? I ask you kindly to answer me - what I said - in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u162	Thank you very much, sir. The question will be asked by Mr Zdzisław Wolski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u163	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Minister Gadomski said that the project was consulted with the medical authority, but he only said part of the truth. On 24 September, the Bureau of the General Medical Council issued a full outrage, because it was consulted with the Medical Chamber only part concerning loans for medical studies, there were no consultations concerning post-graduate training of doctors - and here are changes - and above all so-called. vocational schools. Doctors and local authorities are concerned that there will be a drastic reduction in the level of training of Polish doctors. I'm from Czestochowa. Jan Długosz Academy in Częstochowa is very advanced in efforts to create a medical department. It meets many criteria, conducts physiotherapy, nursing (Dawn), this year even at the master's level. There are a lot of people, a positive position of the president, city council, hospital directors and the local medical department. I hope that ministers, especially the Minister of Science, of course also the State Accreditation Commission, using this law, will quickly enable the opening of the medical department in Częstochowa, because the whole Częstochowa district is waiting for this very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u164	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Joanna Fabisiak to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u165	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Polish doctors leave and are torn apart. Why? And because they're well-educated, they're just good professionals. In this situation, when we expand the spectrum of universities, i.e. vocational universities, will be able to educate doctors, two basic questions arise - I have not found an answer to them - about the funding rules, about the resources that will have to be laid out so that these universities can start working. I don't have to explain to anyone that it's a lot of money, and I don't have time to develop this topic, but we have to think about it. The second is the matter of the program. I understand that in two years' time, in 2023, these universities would start in October, wouldn't they? If so, you have to... [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm almost done, Marshal. And there hasn't been a consultation yet. If there was no environmental consultation, no medical advice... First the consultations, then the programs, then the programs accepted by the Ministry - it is known that it takes a long time - and then finally to equip these hospitals with appropriate... [[Józef Rzczurek-Żelazko: But it's all in the bill.]] Money and time - these two things, I think, are mistreated in the bill, and therefore must suffer the patient in the future, but also the doctor, because the doctor also suffers, as he cannot treat the patient well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u166	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Elizabeth Gelert.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! What you're proposing is to open up new places to train doctors... The result of this action can only be real in 8 or 10 years, while the doctors are missing right now. Therefore, the question is: What do you expect for these 8 years? There are other options. Would you like to take advantage of this? We are talking about the length of training for doctors, of course, while maintaining all EU requirements. Are these six years plus one year of specialization exactly what should be preserved? Continued NFZ requirements. Should these requirements not be verified? What about the other medical professions? Should we not seek to develop other medical professions to help or to fill the gaps? [[♪ The bell ♪]] So please answer me - if possible, in writing - to the question of what other actions you foresee besides launching new training places. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u168	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Jerzy Hardie-Douglas.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u169	Ladies and gentlemen! The thread has already been moved. Following a public consultation, project designers added new, extremely important to the environment of doctors and dentists, records. In accordance with the Act on Medical Chambers, the proposed provisions should be consulted with the medical authority, since the very controversial amendments concerning the extension of the university catalog that can educate doctors are important changes for those with whom the previous text has been consulted and should therefore return to the consultation. This is also due to the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers. That's not what happened. This is a clear violation of the rules on the creation of legal acts. It draws attention to this, among others. Government Legislation Center. Therefore, I hereby pass on the request of the Supreme Medical Council to withdraw unconsulted records from the content of the contested law. Question: "Why do you disregard the laws clearly describing the legislative process?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u170	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u171	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! The fact that we're short of doctors, we all know. Moreover, successive governments, realizing this, increased the number of places in medical school. During the PO-PSL regime, it was 81%. , during the reign of the PiS it was another forty-two percent. We also know that in this way we will not get the result of the educated doctors very quickly. Perhaps, therefore, education should be increased in higher vocational schools, not doctors, but for example. Medical assistants, so that we have people who at least partially relieve doctors from certain activities, let's call them paperwork or office. The problem is that we can't develop a good doctor without a broad hospital base connected with a large city centre, without a university that conducts research. not only in the field where he educates, but also in related ones. We can educate - because you have such a tendency to give additional powers to professional schools - a historian whose knowledge we do not have full confidence in. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We can educate an economist who will sometimes make mistakes, but do we really want doctors who will have a different diploma? We're gonna be afraid to go to them because they're not gonna be properly prepared, because they're gonna be faculty, not doctors. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u172	The question will be asked by Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u173	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There was no change in the bill, which assumes that not only academics, but also higher vocational schools will be able to apply for medical training. It was introduced at a later stage of work on the draft amendment. Is this what the legislative process is supposed to be like? Representatives of the medical chambers comment directly on such actions, using the expression that their hands are falling down. How can such important changes be made without any consultation with the environment concerned? Do you realize how this can affect the quality of teaching? This is extremely important. How does the government want to ensure that the level of training for doctors does not suffer? Medicine should particularly be about the quality of teaching. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You don't value medical professors. After all, it is the citizens who are potential future patients of such doctors who are in the hands of our health and life. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u174	Thank you very much. Is Mr Waldy Dzikowski in the room? I can't see. I would now like to see Alexander Mishalski. [[Voice from the room: I don't think there is either.]] There isn't any either. Mrs Magdalena Sroka. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u175	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two short questions. I'd like to ask you about an apartment loan. Will the proposed solutions also be available to students in free studies? They too should be able to do so, which would make it easier for them to go through the whole educational process. Second question: Are you planning a broad consultation on the proposed changes regarding the way in which doctors and dentists are trained? Will this legislative process meet the basic standards? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u176	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr Mirosław Suchon.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u177	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! In the explanatory memorandum to the law, the government revealed the costs of training doctors who could travel abroad, and on the assumption that all doctors who completed free studies in the country, as well as took certificates and went to work in the European Union, it turned out that the cost for the state budget in the years 2004 to 2019 amounted to about PLN 4 billion. The study also examined the desire to leave those doctors who are currently working in the country. Over 27% This possibility is considered by the medical examiners concerned. I must say that I recall that when there was a debate on pay for the medical community, a Member of the Law and Justice, sitting in the benches of the Law and Justice Members, she said, "Let them go, let them go." That's what the Justice and Law Member said to the doctors. Today we're struggling... These costs are also due to your government, who supported this kind of word: let them go. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's how Law and Justice treated the medical community. Minister, when will, finally, these funds for the remuneration of the medical community correspond to the value of this environment's work? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u178	The question will be asked by Marek Hok.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u179	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! The subject, as regards the Member of the previous term, which encouraged young doctors to leave, is still valid. It is thanks to this encouragement that young doctors at the invitation leave and continue to leave. I think that the authority of the Member, the Member of the governing party, has caused them to believe these words and to leave. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we have about 140,000. doctors who work professionally, and in this group there are about 30,000. retired doctors. If they give up their work within one day, the whole health care system falls down. They won't help the loans, they won't help the loyalty vouchers, the doctors just don't exist. So the question is: Is it not really necessary to reach for changes in education and in the training of doctors? Shouldn't this old system, which has been operating for 40 and 50 years in education, in the 6-year learning process, be changed - to use what we tried in 2011 and 2012 (The Bell), to make the 6th year of study a year of professional practice in order to increase the possibility of helping doctors educated to improve the quality of their benefits? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u180	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Józef Rzczurek-Żelazko.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u181	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Very good design. I thank the Minister for preparing this project, because at last students from 1 October, which is from today, can receive funding for the cost of training in paid medical departments. This is a long-awaited solution and I think it meets the expectations of many of our students. Ladies and gentlemen, we all want the quality of education to be maintained. As we know, the profession of doctor and training in the profession of doctor is a profession regulated by the European Union. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister: Is the opening up of education at these universities, which you are talking about, which have experience in education, e.g. physiotherapists, diagnostics or other medical professions will follow standards that have been adopted both in the European Union and in Poland? Will you verify whether these universities will carry out scientific research (the bell) in the field of medical science? Because this will guarantee the quality of doctor training also in those universities that meet these standards. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u182	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Dariusz Klimczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u183	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The first question, short, concerns those unused places in medical school. Does the Ministry have a concept, a patent to remove this problem? The second point is the continuation of the thought expressed by Mr Hok. Does the Ministry plan to work towards a complete reform of the education system, particularly as regards specialisation, mode, number, recruitment? Finally, does he also want to combine this with the recent legislative amendment on health needs maps, the transition plan? It should be from these documents, how many such specialists and where we need them. Are you planning on bringing this together? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u184	Thank you very much, sir. The question will be asked by Marek Rutka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll start by quoting Mateusz Morawiecki. In the last 25 years, it is estimated that 25 and 30 thousand. Doctors left, mostly permanently, outside our country, Poland financed the wealthy countries of the West of our excellent doctors," said Mateusz Morawiecki in Lublin. The cost that the state budget must bear, in other words, each of us, for the education of a doctor, is about PLN 1 million. This means that young doctors who left the family home and Poland cost us all PLN 25.30 billion. To make sense of the scale of these expenses - this is the amount for which at least two modern hospitals could be built in each of the voivodships. Instead of developing and implementing attractive wage and salary conditions, especially for medical university graduates, so that they are not [[♪ The bell ♪]] forced to emigration, while deepening the dramatic human situation in the Polish health system, the government proposes to lower education standards. Just a few more seconds. In the draft amendment of the law we read that at the date of application for permission to set up training courses for the profession of doctor and dentists will be authorized universities which are preparing for the profession today. pharmacist, nurse, midwife, diagnostics, physiotherapists. In practice, this means that future doctors will be able to be educated at physical education dorms, i.e. where physiotherapists are trained today - with all due respect, of course, for physiotherapists. The project proposes a whole bunch of other negative steps. The question is: Should doctors be educated at such universities? Why don't we just call it a felczer+ program right away and we'll be clear. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u186	Thank you very much. We would ask Mrs Fabisiak to silence the conversation or move away from the Seym. Mrs Anna April.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think it is worth it to have a few important information from this speaker regarding the trips and emigration of doctors who are educated in Poland. Well, I ask you to be aware that young people from the European Union come to Poland, are educated here for a period of 6 years and return to their country, simply take a certificate of graduation and return to their country. In this statistics so-called. There are about 1 thousand doctors educated at Polish universities. on a yearly basis. There are people who are returning to their country. I'd like to ask you that first. The second point is very important. It's about (the bell) universities that today train physiotherapists, diagnostics and pharmacists. I want to assure you - it will certainly not be so that every county will educate future doctors. There are universities that have medical simulation centers at a global level. They can really start training doctors because we have a huge deficit, despite the fact that we had about 15,000 in 2015. Professional doctors less than today. We now have about 15,000 in the system. Doctors and 20,000. Nurses more. Of course, these needs are much bigger. That's what I wanted to ask you. Minister, can you please tell us what other activities, such as the training of residents, is the Ministry planning to take in order to increase the number of doctors in the health care system as soon as possible? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u188	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u189	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The contested law creates the possibility of education and training - under certain conditions, of course - for further actors. Any action aimed at increasing medical staff is important. My questions are: How many universities are interested in creating a medical and dental direction? What is the expected number of students and doctors in the future? What measures will be taken to ensure that graduates of these courses, which will be more, can then carry out specialized training? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u190	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u191	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! PiS representatives were just bragging about how the number of places in medical school is increasing. This is, ladies and gentlemen, the beginning. The problem is being addressed in the specialization stage. For many very sensitive and necessary specializations, the number of places is decreasing. I would very much ask the Minister to reply in writing to the question: What was the number of places in particular specializations over the last six years? Second thing and another question, Minister. It's what we talked about today. Despite completing their studies in Poland, doctors do not take up work in our branches due not only to poor earnings (Dzwonek) compared to neighbouring countries, but also to poor work organisation. This was mentioned by my clubmate, Mr Klimczak. In this connection, I wanted to ask: What kind of resort plans to take action to break off this unnecessary bureaucracy, which today is handled by a doctor in Poland, his colleagues e.g. in Sweden, Denmark or Norway not. I'm talking about the paperwork, the unnecessary bureaucracy that other workers can take care of. We could use some clear, unambiguous action on the part of the health department. We're looking forward to it. My question is: What legislative action is being taken in this area at the health department level? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u192	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Wojciech Maximowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u193	I'm glad to ask you a question directly. I asked them in the form of interpellation to the Minister of Health. I haven't gotten an answer yet, of course. It will also be valuable to the Minister of Health. I have to say, enough self-deception about the number of doctors. In a moment the opposition will say: there are not enough doctors, see, it's all your doing. You say there's not enough of them and we have to build schools. Ladies and gentlemen, if the diagnosis is wrong, the treatment is fatal. The diagnosis must be correct. I've got 10,000. The population was between 34 and 37 doctors. Please provide in writing reliable information on professional doctors, which will be based on the data from the only official register of the statutory medical board register. It's not true that information is duplicated there, that doctors who don't work and so on... They're divided. The doctor who works, even if he is older, is listed in the register as one working person. The second register, which is not official, but also very valuable, is the National Health Fund register. I know it's a little lower down there. In any case, we should have a real diagnosis of the situation (the bell), otherwise we turn in the blind alleys. The effect is that we don't use actions that can make doctors enough where they're supposed to be. That's the problem. We can still see there aren't enough doctors out there. Yesterday, Mr Kowalski said buńczuchically, attacking the local government in Opole, that the branch was closed down there, that the terrible local government closed down the psychiatric unit. As I found out, this unit closed itself, because there was simply no psychiatrist who wanted to work there. That's the problem. You need motivation to work and a system that will make you not have to hunt doctors in every county hospital. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u194	Thank you very much, sir. The statements made and the questions asked will be addressed by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Sławomir Gadomski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u195	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you for these questions. I'm trying to combine them into certain groups, so that I can get through the answers as effectively as possible. Mr Hreniak asked a very valuable question. He asked how many doctors we should educate. The answer is probably not so obvious. If we look at the number of pensioners or the number of doctors entering the retirement age, then in order for Poland to be replaceable, we should educate, say, between 6 and 8 thousand. Doctors. Today we're training more, which means this college admission limit is bigger, it's over 10,000. 10 400 is the admission limit of this academic year, which starts today. On the other hand, if we look generally at systemic needs, at the ageing population, at epidemiologically-demographic needs, we obviously still want to increase this number of doctors, because we also know that several tens of thousands work in the system - here was the number of 30,000, according to my estimates, even more, about 40,000. - doctors who are retired today. So we need not only to ensure annual replacement by setting limits, but also to make up for a hole in this area. In conclusion, we still want to increase admission limits for college, I think up to a dozen thousand a year for sure. That's what this bill is for, too. The question was, how many students would benefit from statutory solutions. That is Mr Adamczyk's question. Of course, today we rely solely on certain estimates. Today students studying at paid studies in Polish are 7 thousand. From this point of view, we have prepared an impact assessment of the regulation, assuming that everyone can benefit. It's not true that there's no interest today. On the one hand, we have a very large number of signals from the medical school, on the other hand we see this interest in the form of phone calls or e-mails to the Ministry of Health. On the other hand, I can't give you safe respect. I'd like as many people as possible to take advantage of it. Seven thousand, I hope. The eligible will benefit the majority. As for the unused places, while we're at these numbers of places... Mr Klimczak asked, speaking in his speech, if I remember correctly, about 2,000. Unset limits. I don't know, sir, where's the data coming from? Among the medical universities subordinate to the Minister of Health, i.e. medical universities, which, however, meet most of these limits, in the previous academic year, because from this year we will have data in about a month, we had unused 100 and 110 places, practically all in the studies paid in Polish. The limits in the free studies were completed virtually entirely. You asked for solutions. This law is a solution, a law allowing these students to borrow medical loans, a loan for medical studies, which can be surrendered. That's the answer. It is also stated in the explanatory memorandum that we assume that some of these places are not covered precisely because students do not decide because they cannot afford this credit. It is worth noting that already this year, as an action, we could say colloquially, under this law, we have increased the number of places in paid studies. I am convinced that if this interest is high, we will increase these limits even more next year. At the same time - maybe there was no question about it, but once I have the opportunity, I will say - we also reduce admission limits for English language studies. [[Exactly.]] We can't just look at the number of admission limits, but we also have to look at the structure. In the last 2 years we have mainly reduced the number of limits for English language studies, while increasing the limits for admissions free of charge in Polish. If we are at numbers, I will say this again, because Mrs April asked about students from abroad and the actual size of migration, that we unfortunately do not have such good data in Poland. We're based on some simplifications. The simplification is the certificates taken by graduates in the Chamber, the simplification so large that drawing conclusions from them is indeed a far-reaching simplification, because firstly, these certificates can be taken by graduates repeatedly, secondly, it does not mean that wherever they go, and thirdly, as you have rightly pointed out, these certificates are also taken by students of English-language studies who, as we know, unfortunately mostly leave Poland. [[They're going back to their countries.]] But as I said, we are reducing these limits, while increasing admission limits in Polish, although we also do not care about such a drastic reduction in these limits, because let us not treat these students as second-class students. They bring the internationalisation of universities, bring certain foreign contacts, make it possible to exchange with other countries. So we still want to keep it going, although we don't have to take as many as we have so far. There have also been requests from this speaker for a standard of education, a certain reduction in the length of education. We discussed this for a long time in the academic community. I'm looking at Professor Maximovich. I don't know if he'd agree to cut the college program short today. Rather, the academic community's opinion today is that, together with new forms of education, with the development of simulation techniques, together with the development of multi-profile simulation centers - all medical institutions have already established such centres - this programme is being expanded today rather than shortened. I would also like to remind you that the European Commission requires that training in medical studies be at least 5 years old. So what we're talking about is possibly a one-year limitation and shortening. On the other hand, this speaker has repeatedly said: quality of education and standards of education. In our view today, shortening the cycle or studies or post-graduate education does not necessarily go hand in hand with what you have requested, i.e. with the highest standards of education, although I am sure - here I am able to agree - we need to reflect on some flexibility in the forms of education, on some other opportunities for improving education. We have made some demands and some changes in this area in the Act on the Profession of Doctors and Dentist in 2020, where such flexible forms have been introduced. I'm still looking to see if I can do anything... Okay, maybe I'll go over these difficult questions. The Minister of Science said he had to leave, so I'm going to try to take responsibility for these questions related to the extension of the number of universities. Ladies and gentlemen! Firstly, we cannot combine the number of universities that will be able to aspire to educate doctors with a clear reduction in the standard of education. Today, the position of the Minister of Health is clear: and the standard of education, and the standard that allows doctors to start training in general will remain unchanged. These requirements that we place on universities today, in the opinion of the Minister of Health, are our position, to be exactly the same as those of universities that aspire today. It is incomprehensible for me to apply this simplification that we are opening up this market. Ladies and gentlemen! I will show two examples or even more examples using data from the Ministry of Education and Science. With regard to applications submitted today by universities for the establishment of medical studies, universities which already meet the criteria today have at least a few accreditation procedures, at least a few are taking place. I'm not going to name college. On the other hand, these are actions that have been going on for several years. And these universities still haven't met their requirements today. They have met the formal requirement to aspire to training doctors, but they have not yet undergone accreditation procedures because they are so complicated. There have been questions about certain requirements and investment expenditure. Absolutely so, ladies and gentlemen, today every university that wants to educate doctors must start with a certain cost-effectiveness analysis. She has to face the fact that she's gonna have to pay some investment expenses, that she's gonna have to hire staff, and so on. I think that it must also be borne in mind that some expenditure, which as a government party, as a state budget, we have made possible, for example. for multi-profile or mono-profile medical stimulation centres, but it is more in the case of training in other professions than doctors that will have to be borne by universities. It's a huge expense, it's a huge challenge. Let us not simplify the fact that these universities will start training doctors in two years. With full awareness and responsibility, I'd like to say they probably won't start. If they go through this procedure, it's more like a 2-, 3-year cycle. It is about providing staff, infrastructure expenditure, adaptation, etc. This bill doesn't deny it at all today. These requirements will still have to be met. I compared it today at the subcommittee meeting and maybe I'll use it again. The fact that any one of us in this room can become a pilot today is a fact. We meet the requirements. We're old enough to aspire to being pilots. But I don't know if any of us would take the trouble. Firstly, it must be considered whether it is profitable for him, a similar account will have to be carried out by universities, and whether it is really needed in the long term. And a similar account will have to be carried out by universities. Most importantly, even when we say yes to this question, then each of us must go arduously to become this pilot, which ends in the examination process. The same tedious path will have to go through universities trying to educate doctors. The fact that this law offers the possibility that this number of universities, theoretically able to aspire to become medical institutions that educate doctors, would not mean that these universities would automatically start training. So that from the point of view of the Ministry of Health today we absolutely do not allow the thought that any standards of education at such universities would be different than those which educate today, that any standards of entry into education, i.e. the fulfilment of these formal and substantive requirements, would be different, and in particular lower than today. Moreover, such a digression, I am convinced that among those universities that will even be able to aspire to this after the adoption of this law, on the fingers of one hand, we will count those who would like to take the trouble at all. It is also important to be aware that today, in the case of medical universities, or dependent health ministers, or universities that have been training doctors for many years, we are undertaking a great deal of work, which I have already mentioned, organizational and financial difficulties, especially investment, in order to increase the opportunities for education to expand the teaching base in order to increase the capacity to expand the clinical base. It's not a simple process either. If there are only a few universities that meet these demanding requirements and are able to educate doctors, it will, I am convinced, add value to the whole health system. As I say, I believe deeply that this quality will not be affected. In particular, those accreditation processes which have started and ended with a refusal or have not ended with regard to certain requirements for universities which they wanted but which do not comply with are a certificate. Ladies and gentlemen! I think I have one more question left, Mr Paszyk, about the number of specializations. The Member said that the number of specialization places is decreasing. That's not true, she's increasing, minimally increasing. Let's say it's constant. I'm sure that's something to be noted. However, this number is adapted to the number of graduates who graduate from higher education. If these increased limits from the 2015/2016 academic year or later increased limits will enter this post-graduate education world, of course these numbers will increase. We have the resources to do this. We will also focus additional efforts on this in health care. On the other hand, we must remember that the Minister of Health must rationally shape the number of limits on specific specialisations. I think that no one in this room, in particular health experts, wants us to focus solely on increasing the number of specialized places where there is great interest today. I understand that there is a great interest in cardiology, allergology, endocrinology and other areas of this kind, but this is also a tool of the Minister of Health, expressed in the form or specializations of priority, or just reducing or increasing the number of specialization places that we care about. This tool (The Bell) is a tool for intervention. If we need oncologists, that's where we really want to increase this activity. Ladies and gentlemen! To conclude, I welcome this positive opinion on issues related to medical credits. I really believe that this tool will allow us and increase the number of places in medical studies, and develop this form of paid education - with this remission, with what we want very much, i.e. with a certain loyalty condition for working in the Polish health sector. Marshal, just half a minute. Of course, Minister. I just wanted to thank you for also lifting the questions addressed to Minister Wojciech Murdzk, who, when leaving the High House, could at least say that he had to leave, or in some other way signal this fact, through respect for the Members present. So that for your very appreciation, I think Minister Murdzek has not shown himself to be the personal culture Himalayas here. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Sławomir Gadomski: The Minister asked me, asked me if I could take over, and he reported it to me, but I think that maybe that doesn't justify it as a whole. To conclude, Mr Klimczak has mentioned it here, and I think the General Medical Council has also raised it... Mr President, I do not agree with the theory that we are concluding some kind of slave contract. Medical credit is optional. [[Residents.]] Residents. Sorry, right. I think it's a benefit someone either wants to benefit from or doesn't want to. Moreover, we are showing the priority of medical education, because today, unfortunately, this may change someday, no IT technician can hope to receive a loan for IT education. I am an economist and unfortunately I could not count on it; today no economist can count on it. And here we are very clear: if you want or need to, because you didn't get into college free of charge, continue to learn the profession, continue to study in the medical department, then you have this opportunity, then the state budget will finance this education. What's more, if you want to work in Poland, which is probably obvious for most people... Even these various focus studies show that today the tendency to migrate is about 20%. young people. Even if this project doesn't change that, it's the other 80%. In my opinion, he will accept this law with great openness and will nevertheless want to benefit from it. I don't see a slave contract here at all. I see here the possibility, the benefit, what is more, a huge distinction in relation to other professions and students of other directions in Poland. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u196	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u197	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The possibility for the State to borrow tuition fees for medical studies will likely result in a significant increase in the number of students studying in this mode. The definition and fulfilment of the conditions required to establish a medical course at a higher school is one thing, but how do you intend to maintain the quality of your education? It is clear that in the case of a large number of students the school will accept, the level of education may decrease. I would also ask you to answer the question whether in the near future such funding will also be possible in the case of other medical courses or whether it will be possible to credit tuition fees for priority students from the State's point of view. In addition, I ask you to answer the conditions that the student will have to meet in order for such a loan to be received and how many people will be able to benefit from such funding next financial year.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u198	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science and certain other laws, contained in print No. 1569, to the Committee on Health and the Committee on Education, Science and Youth for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 33. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Accounting Act and some other laws (print No 1570). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Piotr Patkowski to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u199	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present to the High House a draft law amending the Accounting Act and some other laws. First of all, it is worth mentioning that it is a long- consultative project, agreed not only on inter-ministerial cooperation, but also on a number of consultations with non-governmental bodies. It is largely a response to the demands of non-profit units. The aim of this project is above all to improve, simplify and make it easier for individuals to comply with their reporting obligations. With the proposed changes, individuals will also be able to use modern IT tools and users of reports will be able to quickly download, analyse and interpret the data they need. In addition, this law improves, gives additional competences of the Polish Audit Supervisory Agency. I would like to remind you that this is an entity that was created after the GetBack event when there were also deficiencies in the supervision of audit firms over financial market entities. The uprising and operation of the Lord is to prevent such events in the future. The most important change included in this project is the improvement of the signing of the reports by the members of the Management Board. The recent amendment meant that such reports had to be signed electronically by all members of the Management Board, which caused a number of problems for NGOs, including smaller towns, where the submission of such an electronic signature and the gathering of all representatives of the Management Board were problematic. This project is being amended here. From now on, with a multi-member board, an electronic signature will have to be made by one member of the Management Board, while the other members of the Management Board will be able to sign a report or refuse to sign a report by making a statement in the form of, inter alia, a statement. in writing, that is to say, a return to previous solutions. In this way, multi-member boards will be able to sign such reports more efficiently and will not be required of all such members to have a qualified electronic signature. The second major change that is being made in this project is the introduction of an obligation for issuers who are obliged to draw up financial statements in a uniform electronic standard format for the Member States of the European Union and this is so-called. ESEF format. For other entities applying international financial reporting standards, the Act introduces an obligation to apply the uniform reporting format of the ESFF or another searchable format when drawing up financial statements and business reports. This amendment will result in reports which have so far been often drawn up in a form which has prevented third parties from reading them, but also by members of the entity themselves, being in a uniform form, which will also improve transparency and their activities not only in the internal sphere but also in the external sphere. The third change proposed by the market, quite technical, but important for these entities, is the change concerning the consolidation of financial statements by alternative investment companies. Given the nature of ASI's activities, their obligation to draw up consolidated financial statements is not always justified. The amendment of the Accounting Act therefore proposes simplification in this respect. And the last group of changes are changes that I have already mentioned, i.e. changes in the activities of the Polish Audit Supervisory Agency which are largely related to the digitalisation of the activities of PAN. First of all, this is a clarification of the rules facilitating the holding of remote meetings and the adoption of resolutions on a circular basis by the board of agencies and bodies of the Polish Chamber of Auditors. Secondly, it is about enabling the agency to carry out remote controls in audit firms for all audits and introducing remote controls as a basic form of activity. Third, this concerns the possibility of dealing with matters relating to the operation of the list of audit firms by means of an electronic system. In addition, we facilitate communication between the agency and audit firms during the audit process, reduce the work intensity in preparing audit documents by using documents in electronic form rather than paper form, reduce the cost of audit on the part of both audit firms and agencies and reduce the time-consuming handling of cases. Finally, I would like to emphasise once again that the project was widely consulted. It responds to the demands of really many reporting entities, especially small and small NGOs. Therefore, I kindly ask the High House to adopt the draft law as proposed by the government. Thank you. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u200	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Filip Kaczyński, Law and Justice will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u201	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club on the draft law amending the Accounting Act and certain other laws. Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of the project is to adapt the financial reporting and auditing provisions to the new technological possibilities. The changes introduced include: standardise the format of the issuer's financial statements. The dynamic development of digital technologies that we are currently dealing with also has a significant impact on the accounting and work of auditors. The possibility of using modern IT tools makes it easier for individuals to fulfil their accounting obligations and to draw up financial statements. On the other hand, users of these reports can quickly download, analyse and interpret the data they need. In addition, the digital transformation of economic life has been accelerated by a pandemic caused by SARS-CoV-2 virus. European law is also moving in this direction. I would like to stress that the draft of this law is in line with the European Union regulation, which aims to organise the electronic reporting format. The solution applied under this Regulation is intended to improve the availability and comparability of financial statements. The amendment also provides for changes in the signing of reports. The proposed provisions aim to facilitate the management of multi-member bodies which, for organisational and technical reasons, have difficulties in fulfilling their statutory obligations. At the same time, by introducing voluntary application of new solutions, the project will not have a negative impact on individuals who have developed and established practice in approving financial documents. This amendment provides for the possibility for one of the members of the Board of Directors to sign multi-member financial statements and activities, subject to obtaining statements from the other members of the Management Board. In addition, the use of modern IT tools will improve the work on drawing up the above-mentioned reports and keeping the accounts and verifying them. The proposed amendments to the Act on Auditors related to the progressive digitization of economic life will improve communication between the Polish Audit Supervisory Agency and audit firms. In view of the above, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I declare my support for this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u202	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u203	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition on the government draft law amending the Accounting Act and some other laws, print no. 1570. The proposed law aims at adapting the current financial reporting and auditing rules to the current legal and economic situation and new technological opportunities. Proposals for changes are based on, among others, the provisions of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2019/815 of 17 December 2018 supplementing Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to regulatory technical standards for the specifications of the uniform electronic reporting format. The draft law amends the following legal acts: the Accounting Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Audit Act, audit firms and public oversight, and the Law on Specific Support Instruments in connection with the spread of SARS-CoV-2. The dynamic development of digital technologies also has a significant impact on accounting and financial revision. The possibility of using modern IT tools makes it easier for individuals to fulfil their accounting obligations and to draw up financial statements. Under Regulation 2019/815 issuers whose securities are admitted to trading on a regulated market are required to draw up their annual financial statements in a special format. Where an issuer's report contains consolidated financial statements drawn up in accordance with international accounting standards, such a report shall require special marking. This solution aims to increase the transparency, accessibility and comparability of the financial statements drawn up by listed companies and facilitate the analysis of those accounts. The draft shall also facilitate the signing of financial statements, in particular for bodies headed by a multi-member body. The obligation to sign reports by all members of a multi-member body to allow at least one member to do so shall be waived. The amendment to the Act on the National Court Register introduces the possibility to submit electronic copies of documents to the National Court Register - various kinds of statements - which in the original were made in paper form and then scanned. Numerous changes are made to the Act on statutory auditors, audit firms and public oversight. In the audit report, the statutory auditor shall give an opinion on the compliance of the audited report with the requirements of Regulation 2019/815. Provisions are also introduced concerning: the submission of an application for the change of data to be included in the list of audit firms and the procedures for its examination by the Agency; the submission of declarations of responsibility for the submission of false statements; the introduction of an electronic application for the listing of the audit firm or the deletion or amendment of it; questions of professional secrecy by the statutory auditor; other matters relating to the work of auditors which need to be regulated. The proposed amendments introduce into the Polish legal system regulations of EU law and other regulations, in particular concerning auditors, which need to be amended or clarified. To sum up, the Civic Coalition Club recommends that the bill be directed to further legislative work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u204	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Anita Sowińska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u205	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left in relation to the government draft law amending the Accounting Act and some other laws, print no. 1570. Digital transformation has been taking place in Polish companies and social organizations for many years and has been accelerated over the last year as a result of a pandemic caused by the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus. Many companies use modern IT tools to keep accounts and draw up financial statements. Users of these tools can quickly download, analyze and interpret the data they need. Entrepreneurs also implement further solutions to automate and robotise financial services and reporting. The European Union recognises the great importance of digitalisation and artificial intelligence in the financial sector, as reflected in the strategy of the European Green Deal and in the directives and regulations implementing it. It is important for Poland to quickly implement EU rules in order to maintain the competitiveness of Polish companies on the global market, e.g. in the external financial services sector. I do not know if you know, but Poland is first in Europe and third in the world when it comes to shared service centres. There are more than 1050 centres across the country with more than 240 thousand employees. staff, most of which in accounting and IT services. The intention of the European Union and the Government is to introduce provisions to facilitate the availability and comparability of financial statements so that reports are drawn up in accordance with the same technical standards. This is intended to facilitate not only the automation of accounting processes, but also the auditing of financial statements. The bill was subject to extensive public consultation. Their opinions and comments have been notified, among others.: Polish Chamber of Experts, Polish Audit Supervisory Agency, Accounting Association in Poland, Confederation of Leviatan, spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises, Personal Data Protection Office, Securities Exchange, Exchange Issuers Association, National Bank of Poland, Association of Polish Banks and others. This bill is a step in the right direction. The Left supports further work on this project in the Committee on Public Finances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u206	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u207	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Since the previous speakers have already discussed the project as a whole, I will not repeat it, but I will declare from the Parliamentary Club the Coalition of Poland - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, that, as always, we can count on our support for projects that improve the lives of entrepreneurs, which facilitate all formalities related to this type of activity, as well as for this project we can count on us. We are in favour of a smooth process on this project, and we are in favour of promoting these changes. There are no controversial solutions in the project. This is the main task of the public authorities today to make such improvements for entrepreneurs, to introduce business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u208	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u209	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 on the government draft law amending the Accounting Act and some other laws included in print no. 1570. Ladies and gentlemen! This draft law concerns the area of digitalisation in the keeping of accounts and financial statements. On the one hand, the introduction of such solutions is forced by advances in digitalisation, but on the other hand, through IT, organisations can better comply with the obligations imposed and report data to stakeholders, for example. in the form of search formats. These regulations, this project is part of these demands. I think that one of the most important changes to this project is to harmonise accounting rules for the use of one electronic format when preparing financial statements by issuers. The draft proposes to adopt for this group the format used for the annual financial report referred to in Regulation 2019/815, which complements Directive 2014/109/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council. The second area worth paying attention to concerns changes in the signing of financial statements. The proposed provisions aim to facilitate bodies led by a multi-member body which, for organisational and technical reasons, have difficulties in fulfilling their statutory obligations. This is a very technical language, but this solution, although optional, will certainly contribute to the fact that these multi-member bodies will be more easily fulfilling their responsibilities. In general, these changes mentioned by me are part of the whole sequence of changes included in the project. In our view, this draft law, which positively affects the ability to fulfil obligations, meet the requirements of the regulations, deserves support and further work on it. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Circle, Poland 2050 I ask the High Chamber and your marshal to transfer the project to the committee for further work. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition, will be the first to speak. There is no Member. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. One minute to ask a question. Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! One of the areas of change in this bill - I did not mention this in the club speech - are some kind of facilitation in digitization concerning the Polish Audit Supervisory Agency. This is, of course, a very important and interesting initiative and I wanted to hear from the Minister whether it would entail additional costs for these digital elements and, if so, how much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u210	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u211	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The proposed changes included in the project should be considered to be appropriate. However, I have a question for the Minister, who is also asked by my constituents. Why are there institutions in Poland that turn billions of zlotys, which either do not carry out reporting at all, or avoid publishing consolidated results, which in practice makes it impossible to read the real financial data of these entities? If I can count on a written reply, I will be obliged to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u212	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u213	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I carefully read the results of the public consultation and was concerned about the ministry's position on the comments made by the Personal Data Protection Office. The Office for Personal Data Protection notes that there is a provision in the Act that says that financial statements are kept for at least 5 years from the beginning of the following year, etc. And this wording at least raises absolutely doubts and should not be here. A specific time should be indicated for how long financial statements are kept. This is due to the GDPR, as a rule limited storage, when storage is not needed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why doesn't the Ministry want to change that rule? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u214	Thank you very much, Member. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Piotr Patkowski to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u215	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer Mr Suchon's question first, I would like to point out that this project even reduces the costs incurred by the state budget, which is one of the categories of projects most liked by the Minister of Finance. Exactly where it limits, it indicates point 6 in the OSR and in the first full year of the project will be over 600 thousand. zł savings. This amount will increase to 700,000, which means in 7 years we will save almost PLN 7 million on this project. These are not large sums, but some. The exact estimate and the basis for the estimation are set out in point 6 of the OSR. I'll just give you the general information. If anybody wants to know about it, the OSR describes it in detail. We estimate that the expenditure will be reduced by around 630 thousand. PLN per year results, among others. the Agency will carry out about 300 inspections, including 250 planned and 50 ad hoc checks and thematic controls. The Agency assumes that 70% these controls, i.e. 210, will be carried out remotely and costs will therefore be lower. Mr Shopiński's question, of course, will be addressed in writing. On the other hand, I would just like to stress that any entity required to conduct financial statements must submit them under criminal responsibility. This subject directory is very well defined, among others. the quota criteria. Therefore, this subject catalogue can be considered closed, but we will of course take a broader view in writing. As regards Mrs Czernow's question on the UODO's comment that the entity concerned may keep the financial statements for at least 5 years. The UODO remark concerned why this is not a maximum period. The answer is this and we also argued in the consultation that we cannot prohibit individuals from keeping analytical data for more than 5 years, including. because, firstly, this is their decision, secondly, without such information, individuals could not carry out analyses or be prepared for any pending judicial proceedings. So that we provide a certain degree of freedom for operators, but this cannot in any way violate other UODO regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u216	The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the government draft law amending the Accounting Act and certain other laws contained in print No. 1570 to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm calling a 15-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 min. 29 hours 14 min 46]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 34 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws (Print No 1504). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Minister Rafał Weber to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u217	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Poland is a safe country today, but there is still one exception. It's road safety. Our roads are marked by crosses, which mean fatal road accidents and tragedies of thousands of families. Mr Mateusz Morawiecki pointed out the problem which is one of the most important objectives of the government and parliament in this House during the exposé. A significant improvement in road safety is our priority, and even wider, is the task that faces the entire political class. For years - it can be said that for decades - Poland has been at the gray end of countries in Europe in terms of the number of accidents and road accidents. Despite the fact that there is a decline every year in this area, this decline is not visible enough, it is not dynamic enough, and the reduction of accidents, victims and wounded is very inadequate. As in 2010. Poland has been on the fourth place since the end of the European Union in terms of road safety, and today, after more than 10 years, we are in the same place, still on the tail of the European Union. This has to change. We must take such steps and actions as will lead to a clear improvement in road safety. This is what they expect - it can be said that this is what drivers, passengers, cyclists, pedestrians expect - from us all those who use Polish road infrastructure on a daily basis, regardless of whether they are national roads or roads managed by local authorities. This is what we want to achieve through intensive and wide-ranging action in the three spheres. The first is road investments. The second is education and awareness-raising for all road users. The third is a change in the law. Today I present to the High House a draft law amending the Road Traffic Law and some other laws contained in print No 1504. The proposed changes are intended to eliminate the two pathologies that we are dealing with on Polish roads. The first is piracy - you can say that criminality - road. The other one's drunk behind the wheel. These two perverts must be eliminated from the road reality. By raising the ticket rates for pirates and drunk behind the wheel, we show that we will not tolerate it anymore, we will not indulge those who are radically exceeding the speed limit, as well as those who are behind the wheel under the influence of alcohol. Such drivers are a terror. Every day we hear of human tragedies, of life taken away, of broken families just because someone was driving too fast and another was driving too drunk again. We have to stop this. We therefore propose to increase the minimum rate of the mandate to PLN 1,500 for drivers exceeding the permissible speed by more than 30 km/h, and to PLN 3 000 in the course of a re-infringement within 2 years. zł. Driving after using alcohol will be fined with a minimum mandate of 2,5 thousand. zł. Of course, in duly justified cases, detention will be possible and the court will decide. Such a clear leap of penalties in these two areas must give rise to respect and must deter potential road pirates who threaten both themselves and others from violating the law. In our intention to increase the maximum amount of the fine issued in the mandate procedure to 5 000. PLN and up to 30,000. evil in judicial proceedings is a clear signal that for the most severe traffic offences there will be no mercy, no mercy. I stress the word "heaviest," i.e. those that directly endanger health or life. Those rates will not be covered by those who commit minor offences, e.g. wrong parking. I say this because in recent weeks, since this bill has been presented, various types of manipulations, contradictions and - you can say it in a language that is very popular in politics - fake news. From this place - and we always try to do it - I also want to correct so that these fake news does not appear anymore. We're not going to do that, we're not going to do that. Minor offences will not be subject to the amendment of the provisions of this law. We further strengthen the protection of pedestrians on pedestrian crossings by increasing the minimum penalty for incorrect behaviour towards pedestrians. Statistics clearly show that nearly 90% accidents in pedestrian crossings are caused by drivers. Hence the failure to give priority to pedestrians, overtaking or bypassing other vehicles on a pedestrian crossing will be punished more severely, because the mandate of a minimum of PLN 1500, and in the event of a real threat to the safety of life and health of pedestrians, the court will be able to rule against driving. On other issues, the project assumes an increase in the minimum rate also for: driving without permission, for riding abandoned dams and for not arriving on rail crossings, for obstructing or stopping traffic, for breaking the ban on overtaking, for not complying with sound signals. In addition to the point increase, the minimum mandates are being increased, and we are proposing changes to the system for the calculation of penalty points. The points will be cancelled after 2 years of receipt, but subject to a mandate fee for the traffic offences concerned. We also raise to 15 points the maximum dimension for the most dangerous offences. Other important changes concern the area of facilitating the possibility for close victims of road accidents to receive a pension. The families of road accident victims - traumatized, shocked - do not cope with the entire legal pension procedure. They will be able to receive support from your structures. We cannot leave such people alone in such difficult situations. The proposal therefore provides for the simplification of the pension procedure, which will be paid by the perpetrator of the intentional crime with the fatal effect of people nearest to the victim of a road accident who are dependent on the person who, as a result, lost the host. This benefit will be exempt from income tax and not included as income in the calculation of family benefits. Another important proposal is to depend on the amount of the insurance premium for motor vehicle owners on the number of points and the history of the most serious offences committed. The draft law provides for the provision of data from the CEPiK to insurance undertakings and allows for the adjustment of the rates of motor insurance to the history of the driver's offences and the points received by him. Once the risk assessment has been completed, the insurance undertaking will be required to delete the data on the driver's criminal points without delay. We hope that this provision will allow us to reward properly, prefer those who drive safely, those who do not break the most serious traffic rules. They will pay lower OC contributions, and those who engage in traffic violations of traffic regulations - all the time I speak only about the most serious offences that are specified in this bill - will necessarily be obliged to pay a higher insurance premium. Ladies and gentlemen! So we propose a whole package of legal changes. I am convinced that they will have a positive impact on increasing road safety. We want to save, save as many lives as possible, but we also want to reduce the financial costs of road accidents, which are counted in tens of billions of zlotys per year. In 2019 it is a record 56 billion PLN, so the fewer accidents, the fewer casualties, the less costs for all of us. It's hard for me to count life into money. I use this argument to show that this context is also taking place in this discussion, and this context is important, and in this context in various kinds of discussions, even in discussions about the state of safety in road traffic in particular years, the state of parliamentarians draw attention. Conclusion of my speech: the aim of the changes is to eliminate drunks behind the wheel. Suffice it to say that only yesterday the police stopped nearly 200 drunks, while in a year there are even more than 100,000 such detentions. In 2019 more than 100,000. Drunk drivers have been detained by the police. How many weren't arrested because they made it? I leave this question open, I leave a question mark, but I think everyone realizes there were more of them. So we have to stop this pathology. We also need to tame road pirates, make sure that the permissible speed is respected both in the built-up area and beyond. In this case, respect for the law equals respect for life. We want to punish those who have nothing to do with others, and in a deliberate, very often systematic way, by breaking laws, they threaten others. And we want to put an end to that, too. Ladies and gentlemen! I look forward to the club's speeches, and I look forward to individual assessments of ladies and gentlemen of this bill. I've been tracking the media that's been describing this bill recently. I also follow the comments of those who are interested in this subject. I am convinced that, in this Chamber and probably at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee, the discussion will be very energetic, alive, but I hope it will be without emotion, and I hope it will be substantive. What I'm saying is I'm not closing my arguments, I'm not closing my proposals. Perhaps this project will continue to change, and it will probably be amended. I assure you that we will look very carefully at each of them and the amendments that will be meaningful and rational will be recognized by us. However, with experience from both this and the previous term of office, I fear that there will be proposals that will exclude each other. One side will want to punish even more, the other side will want no punishment at all or to be severe to me. My task is to approach this topic coldly, without emotion, and to select the best proposals and to propose to you such regulations as will positively affect road safety, so that we as a country take care of the BRD and that everyone who uses Polish road infrastructure on a daily basis can feel safe. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u218	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr King, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u219	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present our position on the government draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws, print No 1504. The draft law under consideration on the amendment of the law - Road traffic law and certain other laws has two main objectives: firstly, the support of the people closest to the victims of road traffic accidents with fatal effect, secondly, the improvement of road safety, in particular through the fight against road traffic offences. In order to strengthen the prevention and justice function of the law, a number of changes have been decided to allow for a more effective fight against dangerous drivers on the road. The proposed regulations are based both on the response to a broad social problem with high social harm and on the need to harmonise legislation, in particular by breaking with the privileged position of road traffic offenders. The proposal therefore provides for increased penalties for road traffic offenders. The project also assumes effects other than criminal measures and proposes to link the amount of charges for motor insurance with the number of points obtained and the history of offences committed. It is proposed to introduce legal solutions to allow insurance companies to make data from CEPiK available and to adapt tariffs to the driver's history and offences and to the points he receives. Adjustment of contributions to the history of the driver's offences will have a positive impact on the amount of the contribution for drivers who drive in accordance with the regulations. This will undoubtedly be a positive reinforcement. The difference in the amount of insurance motivates the drivers financially to drive safely. Safe driving is rewarded with no need to bear the additional costs of the insurance contract. Every driver pays for the insurance contract, and only one who doesn't get paid for the ticket. And the question of statistics, in my opinion, extremely sad, but also showing where we are now. In 2020 there were more than 23 000. Road accidents, resulting in 2491 deaths and more than 26,000 injuries. people, including hard - more than 8 thousand. persons. This gives an indication of about 11 people killed and 112 people injured in 100 accidents. As a result, at least one man was killed in every tenth of the time. Importantly, almost 90% of them were responsible for the drivers. Even worse, according to statistics in 2020, 1656 accidents were caused by drunk drivers. They killed 216 people, and 1847 people were injured. High Seym! It is with great satisfaction to assume that this project also provides for the simplification of the pension procedure, which will be paid by the perpetrator of the intentional crime with the fatal effect of the nearest victims of a road accident with a dependent person who, as a result, has lost a family member. This benefit will be exempt from income tax and will not be included as income in the calculation of family benefits. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice intends to support this project in further parliamentary work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u220	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Maciej Lasek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u221	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A law increasing the level of penalties for road traffic offences will certainly arouse a lot of emotions, but unfortunately it is a sad necessity. The amount of penalties has not been altered since 1997, when the average salary was just over 1 000. zł. Then the highest mandate cost a potent road pirate half his salary, and today, after 24 years, it costs him only a tenth of the average salary. At the same time, almost 3 thousand people died on roads in Poland in 2019. people and 34,000. He's been injured. In this respect, we are in the ungrateful forefront of Europe together with countries such as Bulgaria and Romania. The risk of death by accident in Poland is four times higher than in Norway or Switzerland. Security should be based on many pillars. These are good infrastructure, proper training system, well-thought-out rules and the inevitability of punishment. The road safety report covering the period up to and including 2019 indicates that most of the trends describing improvements in safety have slowed down. As far as good information is concerned, the recently introduced rules on the priority of pedestrians have led, in line with the statistics cited by the Ministry of Infrastructure, to significantly less accidents in pedestrian crossings this year. This law seems to continue this good direction of change, but in its current form it is far from ideal and raises many serious objections. Already, the draft envisages violating the basic principles of criminal law regarding information about what is being punished for. Art. 2nd Constitution states that the Republic of Poland is a democratic state of law. How does this apply to the open definition of offences in the project? This change is completely unjustified, as pointed out in the broad position of the Ombudsman. The citizen must know in advance whether his act fulfils the signs of wrongdoing and what punishment he will incur. This amendment opens the way for punishment not only for serious road offences, which we all agree with, but also for acts that have much less social harm. Such an example may be a proposal for an increase of up to 5 000 in the Act. Evil punishment for stopping traffic. Will this also include punishing the police with multi-thousand seats of spontaneously protesting people? After all, this is an open way to violate civil liberties. I think that should be explained in the course of our work. According to the applicants, a drastic increase in penalties for offences is intended to build prevention and deter. But it's not the level of sanctions, it's its inevitability that builds prevention. The determination of penalties in total detachment from average earnings per head will make them unenforceable. According to the current rules, when execution is impossible, the fine can be converted into a limitation of freedom or detention for 30 days. It may turn out that penalties of 10, 15 or 30,000. Evil will be irresistible because the punished will not be able to pay them, which will result in their conversion into custody. What costs will the state budget bear in this way, not to mention social costs? Would it not be more appropriate to introduce the possibility of converting part of the penalty into social work? When we talk about the validity of the mandates, let us also consider how this affects the procedure for issuing mandates. The Ombudsman also raises doubts. A policeman within a few minutes without any deeper insight into the perp's earning opportunities and his personal situation can issue a ticket. even in the amount of 6,000. zł. Ba, can accept it in cash, which poses a real risk of corruption with such a disproportion of earnings. According to the project, the proceeds from penalties are to fund the National Road Fund for the construction and renovation of national roads and to improve their safety. However, the legislator does not define in any way what it means by improving safety and does not lean on the proportion of these funds. It is also doubtful that money should only go to national roads. Municipal roads are completely ignored, on which there are equally traffic offences and which also need funds for renovations and security infrastructure. In the light of the requests for assistance from victims of accidents, it is justified to request that part of the money be spent on a fund dedicated to victims of accidents which could provide the necessary financial assistance for them to live and recover, especially as victims of unintentional road traffic offences do not have their aid fund. In support of the victims, the project devotes a significant part of the project by proposing a dedicated course of pension proceedings for the nearest victims of an accident. However, the procedure relates only to intentional offences, and in the course of case law and practice it was assumed that road accidents are mostly involuntary offences. In addition, if we are talking about the pension procedure, it has several shortcomings. First of all, why do we support only one group of victims? What if the victim of an accident is permanently unable to work? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your Marshal, may I extend by a dozen seconds? Yes. Thank you very much. Why should survivors be condemned to prove their injury and incapacity to work in long-term civil trials? Secondly, what appears to be the greatest advantage of the project, i.e. the initiation of proceedings with a copy of the final judgment, can clearly delay its initiation. After all, such appeals can take up to two years. In the ordinary security, the victims may apply for the payment of the pension already at the level of the winding-up procedure. In conclusion, I would like to say that the proposed act is a step in the right direction, but it needs to be amended. I believe that in the course of a fair and cross-party work in committees, without ignoring the views of legal institutions, social organisations and public hearing, we will create a legal act that will give justice to all victims who meet social expectations and will positively improve road safety. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u222	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u223	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Let's face it: on Polish roads and streets there has been a bloodbath for years. According to the Road Traffic Bureau of the Police Headquarters, in 2020 more than 23 thousand occurred. road accidents. As a result, nearly 2.5,000 people died. people and more than 26 thousand. He suffered wounds, often requiring long-term and expensive rehabilitation. These are concrete, dramatic numbers, but the greatest harms associated with tragedies on Polish roads cannot be measured. You will not count the pain and suffering of losing your beloved grandmother, father, child, brother or sister. If any government, regardless of which party was in power, had previously bowed to legislative changes in the field of road safety, a number of tragedies would have been avoided. Many families could still enjoy the presence of a loved one. In addition to this most valuable value of human life and health, road accidents cost the state budget concrete, huge money. On an annual basis it is about 56 billion PLN. By improving the situation on the roads, we can save a lot as a society, and the money thus obtained can be spent e.g. raises for representatives of medical professions, teachers, civil servants, courts or prosecutors. Poles and Poles have had enough of bandits on the roads. 82% Polish society supports the introduction of stricter penalties for speeding. Activists and socialists rightly point out that the maximum rate of the mandate, which has been constant for almost 25 years only 500 PLN, has ceased to scare anyone away. Road criminals no longer have any respect for the law and the Polish state. Therefore, as the Left, we agree with the main direction of the changes proposed in the draft law, namely to increase penalties for traffic violations, to increase the amount of seats, to introduce a pension for the deceased's loved ones or to link the rates of insurance to safe driving. But unfortunately, this project also raises our serious doubts. The issue raised by the Ombudsman is very worrying. Radical reinforcement of penalties It is also intended to cover Article. The 90th offense code that deals with traffic suppression. What does that mean in practice? When someone gets on the road with a banner during the protest, he will be facing a fine of up to 30,000. zł. Does the government, through this amendment, want to provide itself with an instrument to discourage people from exercising their constitutional right to peaceful assembly, a tool limiting the right to strike, spontaneous protest or picket? I would sincerely like to believe that this is not simply a mistake and an oversight, but because the law does not constitute faith, therefore the Left will make appropriate amendments in this regard. The bill also introduces chaos in the case of road recidivism. The selection of offences that will result in a more severe sanction in the event of a repeated criminal offence within 2 years looks like a lottery. For example, if someone has previously been given a parking ticket and then the same person is caught in wrong parking, they will be fined with a minimum of 3,000. zł. On the other hand, if he commits twice a misdemeanor in the form of driving under the influence of alcohol up to 0.5 promila, he will not be considered a repeater. In this respect, we will also report amendments that will put the penalisation system in order when it comes back to the offence. The draft amendment also lacked many other very important changes. We're still waiting for the possibility of temporarily stopping the car for people driving against the ban. It is not known whether the Ministry of Justice will fulfil its promises regarding the confiscation of cars for the most serious traffic offences. Nor does the draft law contain the requirement of inevitability of a penalty by changing the enforcement of mandates for simplified administrative procedures. The idea of picking up a driver's license for speeding 50 km/h outside the built-up area was not returned. We are also still waiting for an increase in the number of speed cameras, the restoration of their ability by local authorities, the establishment of highway police, the introduction of statistical measurements of speed control on motorways and high-speed roads, on which today there is simply a free American woman. In conclusion, I would like to say that although the general direction of the proposed amendments is correct, the draft legislation submitted to the High House needs to be refined. As a Left, we will support any changes aimed at improving safety on Polish roads, but we will not allow them to become a tool for limiting the constitutional rights of citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u224	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u225	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives towards the government bill amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws, print No 1504. As we read in the explanatory memorandum, the proposed regulation has two main objectives: to support people closest to road traffic accident victims with fatal outcome and to improve road safety, in particular by combating road traffic offences. As far as the first target is concerned, we agree with him. As early as January 2020, members of the Polish Coalition submitted a bill showing that drivers who caused an accident under the influence of alcohol or drugs should pay for their treatment and victims. If you wanted to do this, we'd be working on it by now. Of course you don't. The second of the project's objectives is one of the most pressing social problems in Poland. According to statistics prepared by the Road Traffic Bureau of the Police Headquarters in 2020, 23 540 road accidents were reported in public roads, areas of residence or traffic zones resulting in 2491 deaths and 26 463 people injured, including badly injured - 8805. It gives about 11 people killed and 112 people injured for every 100 accidents. As a result, at least one man was killed in every tenth of an accident. Those are terrifying data. It's not just about speed, it's not just about driving behaviour, it's about improving safety. The Supreme Audit Chamber in 2018 concluded that it was difficult to find the ILO on the roads. Roads of high-speed traffic, bypasses, highways are created, but there is no place to operate travellers, because for what? Tired drivers fall asleep. We can see that the driver doesn't have to be drunk at all. Professional drivers who travel for hours fall asleep at some point due to fatigue. They have nowhere to go, to rest, to drink coffee. This is not a situation that we are dealing with on ordinary roads, where every kilometer you can go on an access road, to the square, to relax for a moment, to relax. You're not doing anything about it. Although I have reported this many times at the meetings of the Infrastructure Committee and I have talked about it from this speaker, the number of ILOs is not increasing. Many ILOs are closed today. The set red cones indicate nothing's working. Sometimes only lighting works, which makes no sense is turned on and only generates costs. That money could be used to improve security. Of course, all you can do is punish. And today we should talk about the amount of punishment. For a fat cat from the Treasury company 5 thousand. The ticket is no problem, he pays, he laughs, and he goes on. A driver who drives professionally at the lowest rates that earns the lowest national and will have to pay such a ticket will pay and will cry. It will be at the expense of his loved ones, his family, his children. Perhaps even 500+ will have to be used to pay such a mandate. You don't care. There should be such a debate here, but I do not believe that the Law and Justice will want to discuss it with us. We make amendments on many issues and they are rejected. No one wonders what the amendment puts forward, whether it is needed or not. Mathematics decides if you reject it. You don't listen to the opposition when they propose really good amendments. I do not believe that the content of this law will change, and therefore, at the hands of your marshal, I am filing a motion for rejection at first reading of the government bill amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws. This debate must be held, but knowing the legislative diarrhea of this Parliament, I suspect that again in a few weeks - give, God, weeks - everything will be accepted and the consequences will be discussed much later. [[Applause]] There are issues of instruction, proper preparation of drivers, raising the level of driving culture. It's all important, but it's not just a multi-thousand-dollar ticket. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u226	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. Please, Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u227	The Minister said he should make cold and emotionless decisions on such matters, and yet again we are passing a bill to consummate social outrage after some loud accident, right? Mediocracy in practice. If the government needs any success, it goes to war, obviously not with some powerful, dangerous opponent, because in such cases our government usually gets spanked, but to war with its own drivers, because it's the easiest. For years, drivers have been blamed, attributed to the consequences of government negligence, brought up in constant guilt, and even against the laws of physics have to give way to everyone and everything, especially cyclists who suddenly fall into the passage for bicycles. This is the war as far as you can go, and it's doomed to success, because the number of accidents has been falling steadily for years, so next year you're going to say it's all yours, and if it doesn't go down, you're going to wait a year and announce success in two years. You can't fight thefts, you can't catch immigrants at the border, you can't defend yourselves against the European Union, so you're just gonna cut into the money of defenseless citizens for punishment that they're driving a car and not hurting anyone, because these draconian punishments are intended primarily for crimes without victims, e.g. For some hypocrite behind a desk thinking he knows better how fast you can drive in a particular place. And just because that idiot behind his desk put up some stupid sign that no one's following, some unlucky driver driving along with common sense will be punished. Only a victim of fate drives 50 in the city. Millions of people drive normally and most of them never cause any accident. And they'll still drive like this. It's just some miserable guy who's gonna pay such a bad-luck tax from time to time, because that's what these tickets are. It's a bad luck tax, a normal driving tax. And you want to ambush normal people like thugs at the bridge and take the racket off, even though you drive the same way. I disgust the left-to-right hypocrites who support it. For stealing less than 500 zlotys, there is a lighter penalty in this country than for speeding or driving without lights in the day, because you would rather send police to carve drivers instead of chasing real criminals. You're just making cop robbers take a racket. The same people who repeatedly claimed that the death penalty didn't work because it wasn't the harshness that mattered, it was the inevitability and rehabilitation that raced here for pennant populism with the government. The death penalty imposed on the site by the forces of nature is now threatened with careless driving. If someone, some crazy person, this death penalty doesn't scare them away, then why would they scare him away with fines and fines? They just fall not on pirates, but on normal people going to work. You said that seats had not been raised since 1997, but since 1997 the number of accidents has been falling all the time. So on what grounds do you find that it doesn't work? It's working, even though the cars keep coming. When it comes to comparing the rate of increase in the number of vehicles with the rate of decrease in the number of accidents, we are one of the leaders in Europe, but we always choose (the bell) an indicator in which we look bad, and on this basis we want to destroy people's lives. The Confederation shall apply for the rejection of this shit in its entirety.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u228	Thank you. Unfortunately, not everyone can benefit from the benefits of Polish language. Please, Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u229	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In order to effectively protect the safety of road users, especially the most vulnerable, the whole system is needed, not just individual solutions. For example, I will say that thanks to the last, after all, such controversial changes, giving safety to pedestrians we have at the crossings 30% less killed, comparing the month to the month, as well as the less seriously injured and one-quarter fewer accidents. It's working. However, the penalty should be adequate, inevitable and as close as possible in time to the act being committed. Unfortunately, this project does not provide any of these features, but it is basically good for direction, because the mandate limit has not changed in 24 years, although the average salary has increased eight times. If we had a reasonable link between penalties and average wages, maybe today we wouldn't be in trouble. We will also postulate this solution. But the government is proposing an increase so absurd that even the Ombudsman protests. The fine will be paid by the wealthy, and the poor will be filled with arrests. The effectiveness of the system is determined not only by proportionality, but also by the inevitability of the penalty, and here instead of effective execution, with which there is an eternal problem in Poland, you are holding people a game of Monopoly, whose rules determine the dice throwing a ruin, and another time sending them to the field: prison. And the aim of this game in this form does not seem to be the safety of pedestrians or even road users, although also, but the desire to improve your creative budget. In addition, the project is a trap for street protesters and we are somewhat offended, Minister, that you thought that we should not be aware of it. Will the person who will be pushed from the sidewalk to the road during the protest pay 30,000? An evil punishment like a drunk driver? This is completely absurd. You're talking, Minister, about raising respect and fearing. And consent: zero tolerance for road killers who run 200 or 300 km across the city after a few deeper ones. In contrast, punishment must have a primary educational dimension, a correction of behavior. This seems to be completely forgotten, because when even the slightest error threatens a disproportionately high penalty, and in addition rarely imposed and enforced, this provision remains unfortunately dead. As Parliamentary Circle, Poland 2050 will make amendments and declare our willingness to work on this project in the right direction. We hope for real cooperation so that this project truly serves life and security. The decision, of course, depends on their adoption. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u230	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, the Civic Coalition. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u231	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Improving road safety, especially the fight against road criminals, has been analyzed and always up-to-date subject for years. Every day we hear about accidents and tragedies on the roads. But when in June this year I submitted a bill on the safety of cyclists, which mentioned increasing the distance during the overtaking of cyclists by vehicles to 1.5 m, the government did not accept this. You didn't take it. So you'd rather punish than counteract. But I have a question about this project: On what basis and according to what algorithm were the rates and penalties set? It is not worth considering, however, the valorisation of fines, e.g. every 3 years or 5 years? This would give a better chance to analyse whether the level of penalties imposed actually results in any improvement in the safety of road vehicles and public road users? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u232	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Michał Grammar, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u233	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the impression that in your approach to criminal policy, all you see is the principle of repression. More and more punishments, more and more fines. It's a full payback theory, like 100 years ago. The fact that the punishment should also have an educational value, I have the impression, you all forgot. And Montescius had no doubt that the Draconian tightening of penalties was symptomatic for a country that was far removed from freedom. And in this document, you can see that too. You're addicting the state to the degree of wealth as a criminal justice function. That's ridiculous. I ask you like a lawyer: Where is the educational value of these draconian punishments? No populism, because we all know in this room that crazy drivers carry death, that drunk drivers are criminals. Only what are you currently doing to effectively enforce the penalties imposed (the bell)? What makes you think it would be better to enforce higher penalties if today you can't handle the lower ones? And last but not least, Minister: When did you see a privileged vehicle carrying a minister, the Secretary of State, who would drive according to the regulations? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u234	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u235	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The driver should be afraid of crossing the rules in fear of a mandate. There is, however, a moment when the punishment ceases to scare away and begins to arouse ridicule. Minister! Don't look at the average income conquered by your families, relatives, or friends, fat cats from the Treasury companies. Look at an ordinary Pole unrelated to the PiS. Most of them live for minimum national remuneration, while pensioners often live for half of this amount, while fines of 3,000, 5 000. or 6,000. or even 30,000, as the Ombudsman points out, are ridiculous and ridiculous. This law is to enter into force on 1 December 2021. So I have a question for you: When do you want to consult this project and with whom? Who do you want to make a public hearing with? Because for Poles a ticket of PLN 1500 for crossing 30 km of speed on the road (the bell) from 1 December will be an excellent gift for holidays. Poles! The government is preparing gifts for you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u236	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u237	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The piss as usual, when your head hurts, it just cuts your head off in Soviet. The simplest solution, right? Punish, punish - you can do that, but find solutions - no. Three times on this speaker I said, still in the previous term: make a horizontal marking in areas where there is often fog. I said it as a man who saw two people die in the fog with his own eyes. Minister Adamczyk said, of course, we will. Did you? Do you know what the horizontal marking for driving in fog on highways looks like? No, because maybe you're not going abroad. Minister! Do you know what the speed limit is in an area built in Austria on a modernised land road? You probably don't know because you don't drive. 80 km/h. And I want to imagine, ladies and gentlemen, Warsaw, after the arteries of which [[♪ The bell ♪]] The cars are moving 50 km/h. Permanent traffic. So rationally raise the penalties, but also change the rules, change the markings, adapt it to the realities of modernization. People exceed speed mainly because they can't get anywhere within a reasonable time. And you guys, on top of that... Thank you very much. ...you're proposing another change in the fact that the buildings will spill out of your cottages at 70 m2. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u238	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Ryszard Galla, non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u239	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Surely our goal is to ensure that drunk drivers, road pirates are eliminated, to fight any pathology that occurs on the road. Question: "Will all this be achieved by the policy of increasing ticket prices?" Here, the previous speakers have said that the Ombudsman has strongly criticised the level of these amounts, and I would say some kind of pathology. I have a question: Can we talk about the fact that penalties should actually increase, but just so they are, I would say, painful, cheatable, but in some rational way? Mr Lasek mentioned several elements that have a significant impact on road safety: infrastructure, the culture of drivers, but also the law. I do not know if you (the bell) are following correspondence at all, but by writing to you many times, I pointed out some shortcomings, even I would say: illogical situations when it comes to Polish law in road traffic. Will you really also work to adapt this law so that it really is very, very rational? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u240	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marek Rutka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u241	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will quote information from the website of the lawyer's office, which helps to recover the driver's licenses that have been retained: Few people realize that criminal proceedings for alcohol driving can end in conditional remission. The probationary termination of proceedings is beneficial, since there is no conviction. The person accused of driving under the influence of alcohol is in this case an unpunished person, also when the alcohol concentration in the air he exhales significantly exceeds 0.25 mg per dm3. Question: "Did the Ministry put in place appropriate regulation in the submitted draft, which prevents drunk drivers from exploiting potential killers, gaps in the law?"
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u242	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u243	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I remember a discussion in the Seym hall about the primacy of pedestrians on the lanes. After 3 months of application of these provisions, we already know how much they have changed. Statistics leave no doubt - 30% Less killed on the crossings, 30% less badly wounded. Now it's time for the next step. As far as statistics are concerned, Poland is in third place from the end in terms of road mortality. Drunk drivers, drivers who significantly exceed speed, that's what our streets look like. We support this direction, but there are doubts about this project, such as those raised by the ombudsman, concerning the tightening of penalties under the article. 90 misdemeanor codes. So my question is, will the Ministry take these doubts into account? Because this bill should save lives. It is about life (the bell) and should be refined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u244	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Dariusz Kurzawa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u245	Dear Marshal! Minister! When I listened to the justification of this bill, very repressive for our drivers, for all the participants in the movement, I began to think about one very important issue, who is to enforce these very difficult and difficult regulations. After all, we still have many vacancies in the police, we have no employees in the road service, we have problems with infrastructure. First of all, we need to invest in this and eliminate the vacancies in the police force, because without it, we can decide which law. And who's gonna enforce that? Then I would urge that we find the resources to hire cops to raise their salaries, because that's the law that we have... All you have to do is follow it. This would result in fewer road accidents and fewer deaths. That's most of all. And second of all, I'd like to ask if you've calculated how much of yours you've done. whether our budget will benefit (the bell) through these changes and what these funds will be transferred to. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[On TV, 2 billion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u246	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u247	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, all you said here would be much more credible if you came and said, "We're starting from each other." Any minister who will sit in a limousine that will crash - and yet such a limousine in your government's time has shattered a lot - will pay 30,000. Evil punishment. That would be a real solution to society's expectations. But that's not where you start. You start with the introduction of $30,000. zł fine for offences referred to in Chapter XI of the Code of Offences. What are these offences? Driving an electric scooter at a speed other than close to pedestrian speed, leaving the vehicle without lighting or stopping or obstructing traffic on a public road, i.e. protests. Minister! Nobody discusses the need for fair penalties for drunk drivers, for those who really are like proverbial bullets on the road. But these are not (the bell) punishments corresponding to such offences, and you are introducing such punishments. The Ombudsman spoke about it. So it's also about the adequacy of the penalties. It's all missing. Thank you very much. Minister! Finally, I have a question: When will you start with those government officers who actually drive around like bullets on the streets of Warsaw?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u248	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u249	President of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Kaczyński's security! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A significant increase in the rates of mandates and the dependence of OC contributions on safe driving is a step in the right direction, but I would just like to ask what is the enforcement of these new rules. When will the permission for speeding end? Alone, when I drive 50 km/h around the city, I'm ahead of every possible angle. There's been a ban on the bumper recently, but anyone who's been driving on the highway knows this recipe is dead. So are you planning to increase the number of road inspections? I've had a driver's license for 14 years. In the meantime, I've only been controlled by the police twice. Maybe it's time, Minister, to follow the punch and introduce a radar+ program, which is radar in every municipality, a staggering speed measurement on highways, so that those regulations that you're now introducing aren't fictional. There should be no half measures (the Bell) or compromises in terms of human health and human life. I'm asking you to.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u250	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u251	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This project is criticised by the Ombudsman, experts and drivers themselves. By pushing your proposals, you do not notice the recent report of the Supreme Audit Chamber and the guidelines contained therein. An increase in fines and fines for road traffic offences, as laid down in the Act, will increase to up to 30 000. zł remains separate from the average earning opportunities of Poles. It is difficult to expect that the rapid increase in penalties alone will have the expected effect of improving road safety. Why not introduce a model in Poland according to the model from Finland, where the amount of the mandate depends on the amount of earnings? How will the punishment money be distributed? What are the criteria? Why only on national roads and (The bell) not on municipal and district roads? There are accidents there, too. Do you want to hand over the money as it was with the local investment fund? Only for your own, of course. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u252	Thank you, Member. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Mrs Karolina Pavlichak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u253	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill submitted, although it sets out a good direction, raises our doubts in many respects, hence the Left will make numerous amendments to it. The draft law and its individual provisions were also negatively addressed by the Ombudsman, who stated that it was intended to actually disguise serious changes in the law of offences, in particular the amendment of the statutory definition of offences and the drastic increase of sanctions for them. The opening of this definition is a denial of the basic principles of guarantee, guarantees, which the criminal law science has developed over the last two centuries. The limits and conditions of this criminal liability must be defined precisely, and I ask you to do so, hoping to improve this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u254	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Pasławska, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u255	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address the issue of sanctions and penalties for drivers. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill will lead to a situation where wealthy people will pay the penalty, less wealthy or poor people will simply go to prison. Minister, perhaps it would be worth starting from one another and showing you what kind of action you want to take to strengthen this security, e.g. by increasing resources for the modernisation of roads. Because here you have nothing to brag about. I'll just remind you... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I didn't bother you, Minister. I will merely recall the well-known data that in our time the government of the PO-PSL coalition was built over 3.5 thousand. national roads, motorways and expressways. By the end of 2020, you have built 1500 km of the same roads since 2015. Second thing. It may also be worth asking road managers for a certain verification of the marking. I think that each of us (the bell) has examples of where we have crossings, for example railroads, where there is a STOP sign, and they haven't worked in 30 years. Show your actions first and then look for money to patch up the budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u256	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u257	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister Weber tells us about compliance with traffic laws, road safety, pedestrian safety, respect for the law. Bravo, Minister! Then how is this safety in pedestrian traffic, in road traffic to the fact and to the inhabitants of Janów Lubelski? Are you planning a bypass of Janów Lubelski from their houses, from their buildings? How does this respect for the law apply to their appeals, requests, letters and lack of public consultation? You want to move the movement under their windows, under their houses, limiting their safety and their departures. You are strong against the weak and weak against the strong. From this point on, I ask the Minister for an open public consultation (The Bell) on the Janów Lubelski ring road in the variant indicated by the residents. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u258	Thank you, Member. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u259	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Traffic law is changed several times a year. Very often. Many drivers often fail to keep up with these changes, but this change is so repressive, so shocking that it got all the drivers back on their feet. I ask myself: Why didn't the Minister consult with Poles and treat them as individuals, but suddenly before Christmas he introduces such drastic punishments? I ask myself: How much money from this repression will affect the road fund because there is nothing to justify it, and how many people will have to go to jail to work it off? Why don't the Ministry take care of such narrow... problems that cause accidents, as in the case of A4 from Zgorzelca to Wroclaw? Lack of liquidity.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u260	Thank you very much. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u261	The group of victims of accidents, which is growing as fast as possible, are cyclists. It started growing after you imported an idiotic idea into our law under the Platform's rule to allow a biker to break in under the wheels. During the debate on the previous amendment, the Minister said that he was aware of the problem that you were working on it. You rejected my amendment to stop cyclists from trespassing, but you said you'd be working on it. So? And instead, we're going after the drivers again. What about that bill? What about these changes? If you really want to do something for safety, let the Poles get rich faster. Take the excise duty on the cars brought in, take the PCC away from selling the car. Let them exchange these cars for newer, better, so they can match their cars with the Western neighbors you like to compare them with, saying they're supposed to cause fewer accidents. Or at least change this stupid OC system, in which the owner, not the perpetrator (the bell), bears the financial consequences, which does not encourage careful driving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u262	Thank you. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u263	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The proposed project is primarily aimed at reducing the number of human tragedies that unfortunately occur before our eyes every day in different parts of the country. Ladies and gentlemen! The Commissioner spoke about the radar+ programme. I recall such a program in Poland during the Civic Platform, when on the roads like mushrooms after the rain, new photo-radars grew, and in the draft state budget were recorded forecast revenues just from the penalties from the photo-radar. This is how you fought not with VAT criminals, but with drivers and searched for ways to patch budget holes. Minister, I wanted to ask... You also said that, in addition to new restrictions, it is important to improve road safety and quality. It is proposed to create a new fund for the construction of walkways and bike paths... [[♪ The bell ♪]] I wanted to ask you how much it's gonna work and how much it's gonna work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u264	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u265	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A just and efficient state takes care of the lives and health of its citizens. Minister, what's most important is to ensure that the rules are properly enforced. It is not just the amount of punishment that must, of course, be valued, but also the inevitability of it. Enforcement of mandates for all traffic offences through the Police's Automatic Road Surveillance Centre system and other authorised services should be carried out in simplified administrative proceedings, not as at present, in criminal proceedings, which unfortunately unfair drivers often use to avoid penalties by dragging proceedings. According to the Supreme Board of Control, we have several billion unenforced mandates. How are you going to solve this problem? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u266	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u267	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We all care about road safety. Everyone wants us and our loved ones to be safe. On the other hand, I think that this government project is not about improving road safety, but about raising the revenue of the state budget. [[Applause]] If you had demonstrated the implementation of good solutions that function successfully in the West of Europe, if we had known that those bypasses you promised were built, people would have come to this differently. On the other hand, for such horrendous punishments, so high punishments we as PSL will never agree. Because you're just trying to milk people out of money, not to ensure road safety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u268	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Anna Maria Siarkowska, Law and Justice. There is no Member. Mr Radosław Lubczyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u269	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Question to you: Have you already counted, as if you had taken 1:1, those mandates that were in 2020 and converted the amounts that were paid in relation to the amounts that would be in the new law? What's the difference when it comes to these amounts? Second question: What do you want to spend the difference in terms of these amounts, or maybe billions more on public television, on PiS TV, or on health protection? For what purpose will this money, which will be much higher, be spent? Do you know these calculations today, the differences between the mandates that are today and the mandates for which these new amounts would be? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u270	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u271	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have a specific question. You want to connect it to your insurance. What if someone has more insured vehicles, equipment, such as agricultural machinery, which they have to use on a daily basis? Because I don't suspect you'll only refer to the car in which the offence was committed. I'm not talking about a snobby approach, that someone has six cars standing in the garage and each one is more expensive, but I'm talking about those who have cars, agricultural tractors, machinery, devices that go out on the road and are insured. The premium's getting bigger every year anyway. If you multiply it by quantity now, then an entrepreneur or a farmer may not stand such insurance and it simply ends with only a part of the machines being insured, some will be withdrawn (the bell) because you can't find all the money for everything. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u272	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u273	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased that, after 25 years, the amount of seats will be increased to the current needs. It's a step in the right direction. But what about the execution? According to NIK, the sum of unpaid mandates is several billion zlotys. Road accidents cost us more than PLN 57 billion a year as a society. But what about the cameras? Mr. Alvin Gajadhur, General Inspector of Road Transport, gives out reflections and mascots instead of looking at local authorities' requests to install photo-radio cameras. For several thousand applications, only a few dozen are examined. Where's the speed coming from? Minister, what saves lives more effectively: mascot or speed limit? The money from the mandates should be transferred to the DRD fund, to medical rescue officers, to traffic police and to the National Road Safety Council. Show that the words are followed by deeds. It's about life. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u274	Thank you, sir. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u275	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! July 8th this year There was a tragic accident at Stalowa Vola. A married couple died and three children were orphaned, a two and a half-year-old boy survived. The Prime Minister then announced regulations on driver liability. Okay, that's what we want to talk about, that's what Mr Maciej Lasek was talking about, but we would like to have a public hearing first. For once, we want to talk you into a public hearing. We want to talk about a new driver training that gets a driver's license, but they don't ride the highways at all. We want to talk about making money not only for domestic roads but also for voivodship roads. You're from Stalowa Wola, so you're gonna get on the national road, and I'm from Mielec. We're not getting the money because we don't have a national road. We want to talk about it solidly (the bell) and not just talk about it when tragic accidents happen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u276	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u277	Thank you very much, Marshal. Well, it worked, didn't it? Minister! In your speech, you encouraged a peaceful discussion, a peaceful debate. I doubted it when I watched you react. When Mr Lasek presented his view, his position, you took the lead. When one of the messengers spoke, you were arrogantly waving your hand. When one of the Members spoke, you even took off your mask and answered ironically. Unfortunately, this does not encourage a peaceful debate. My question is: Have you read the opinion of the Ombudsman? This opinion is devastating, even accuses of non-compliance with the constitution. Will you then correct, after reading this opinion and after hearing the Ombudsman's allegations, also your own project and come with him for another parliamentary debate? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u278	Thank you very much. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Minister Rafał Weber to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u279	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! No moment is good for making such changes in the legal space or, on the other hand, every day is good for doing so, because every day on Polish roads several people lose their lives, every day we deal with human dramas. We do not need to recall one specific road event from a specific day and place, but we can use such events, because they happen every day on Polish roads. I purposely approach this subject with calmness, try not to speak emotionally, because this situation requires it. We cannot create the law rashly, we cannot create the right for quick and hot, but we must choose solutions that will, first of all, benefit road safety and, on the other hand, will not, as we say, fire a child with a bath. In my opinion, the rules proposed by the Ministry of Infrastructure by the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki are created in this spirit. Today I will answer some of your questions. I hope that I will resolve my doubts, although reading this project alone would avoid many questions, especially related to what increased mandates or penalties for increased mandates will affect, because it is in this project, the ladies and gentlemen of the PSL, that it is written directly. [[Say it again.]] These mandates will enter the National Road Fund, not the state budget. It's like a bull. It's written directly, it's not camouflaged, it's just written directly. We want to show you, ladies and gentlemen, that we don't care about this money. We don't see any future in them in terms of repairing the public finance system, we don't count on them, which is why we're not able to estimate them. It would be best if the National Road Fund didn't get in or out of gold, because that would mean that there are no such people who radically violate traffic laws, radically exceed the permitted speed on the roads. On the other hand, if that happens, we want these measures to affect road investments. The National Road Fund, of course, supports the implementation of investments on national roads, but you cannot say that there is no funding for self-government roads or there is less funding than in your day, because that is not true. 2019 - PLN 6bn, 2020 - PLN 3.2bn, 2021 - PLN 3.2bn plus PLN 500m to highlight pedestrian crossings on municipal and district roads. That's a fact. The revision of the 2020 budget, which is now going through the parliament, involves funding the Government Road Development Fund, which is the fund that supports local government investment, by another PLN 2 billion, which next year will also be used for investments in the BRD, for the construction of walkways and bicycle lines on municipal and district roads. So, ladies and gentlemen, it's worth talking about. I understand it's inconvenient for you because you can't have that kind of money... [[But please... you're starting to comment.]] ...to operate in the past, but it is worth basing your speeches on facts and on the actual state. As far as the real state of road investment is concerned, this is what it looks like, and thanks to our actions, our efforts will look even better. So that, in addition to changes in the legislation, including those related to it, I repeat once again, with the mandates to increase the number of points for radical violations of road traffic law, we also carry out road investments. Also a related issue... raised by many of you on the basis of the Ombudsman's letter. I wouldn't really come up with an idea that indicates that this bill opens up some kind of excessive or even any punishment for demonstrators who protest on the streets. That's not our intention. That's not what we're gonna do. If there is a need to clarify this, I do not see any obstacles. We are really focusing solely on road traffic, and in this area we want to act. As is the issue of payment of on-the-spot parking tickets. We don't change that law either. We just write down that those who want to do it on the spot will be able to do it with a payment card, which is not cash, only a payment card, with a 10% discount just so that they do not create all the paperwork that is related to the writing, the fee and later acceptance by the tax office of a given mandate. [[Voice from the room: Promotion.]] So those who want to do it, to avoid this whole administration, will do it on the spot, but not in cash, just with a payment card. In your speeches at all, there was such a picture that we would like to swing at the drivers. Well, ladies and gentlemen, nothing more wrong. After all, in this bill we do not lower the permissible speeds with which you can travel, whether in a built-up area or in an unbuilt area. We do not lower minimum speeds when it comes to high-speed roads as well. The motorway - as a rule 140 km/h remains, the express road - in principle 2+2 120 km/h remains, the unbuilt area - 90/h km in principle remains and the built-up area - in principle 50 km/h remains. I say: as a rule, because any road manager can adapt these essential rules to a real, current situation, e.g. when repair tasks, investment tasks and road obstacles are carried out. We're not going into this area at all. We require, and I think we should all require that the established rules of law be respected. That's it. That's it. On the other hand, those who do not obey them and break them radically, we want to punish them harshly. Look, we're not touching the speed zone at 10 km/h. We're not touching this 20 km/h speeding bill. Why? Because such misdemeanors are less difficult. In principle, they are not a direct threat to the life and health of those who break the rules of law, but also, and above all, other road users. We focus only on those who are road pirates, and anyone who exceeds the permissible speed by more than 30 km/h, whether it's a built-up area or an unbuilt area, you can call it that. And that's goal number one. Target number two is to fight the drunken on the road. Of course, under this law we are only amending the Code of Offences, while the Criminal Code, where we are already talking about a crime, means we are already talking about more than 0.5 promila alcohol in the blood, this will be a matter that will be regulated together with the confiscation of vehicles by the Ministry of Justice. The Ministry of Justice is currently in the process of inter-ministerial arrangements, as well as public consultation of the project, which will regulate this area. So that I think that sooner or later this discussion, also this debate in this House is waiting. Ladies and gentlemen! I look forward to a really substantive discussion, a really substantive reference to this project at the meetings of the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure. Once again, I would like to reiterate that I am not closing myself to the votes, suggestions or amendments which will aim to clarify, refine the provisions that we are proposing. I am convinced that we are going in the right direction, that we are going in the direction in which we must go. See, I was talking about this, road investments are on a scale like never before. Education-related campaigns, strengthening the public awareness of all road users, have also been underway for many years and will be carried out in the years to come. Since 1997, there has not even been an adjustment to the amount of parking tickets for any traffic offences, but let us just focus on the most serious ones. We've had the status quo here for 24 years. That's what needs to be changed. That's what we want to change, because that's what we're looking at as an opportunity to improve road safety. I hope you will help us with this, and if you do not, I ask you not to interfere. Thank you. [[You didn't answer the question. What about Janow Lubelski? What about the ring road? What about the public consultation?]] With regard to the construction of the Janów Lubelski ring road along the national road No 74, although this is of course a side topic, unrelated to this draft law, I assure you once again, but also all of you, that the public consultation on the choice of the option has been carried out. [[When?]] All procedures have been carried out in accordance with the law. I think she knows better than I do, because she is very interested in this subject. [[No, you're not. You're lying.]] Calm down, my fellow Member. [[But the Minister is lying. There was no consultation.]] Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: The vast majority of Janów Lubelski's inhabitants support the construction of the Janów Lubelski ring road. [[That's not true.]] I hope that bypass along Route 74 will rise as well. [[There was no consultation, that's a lie.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u280	The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. I'm declaring a time-out. 17. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 minutes 10 hours 17 min 04]] I'm reopening the session. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, printing No 1623. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. We return to the consideration of item 16 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media about the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the establishment of the National Day of the Victory of the Wielkopolska Uprising. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1605. Are we ready to vote, ladies and gentlemen? [[Voices from the room: Yes.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: There have been formal requests, Your Marshal.]] There are formal requests. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050. One minute. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u281	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I do not believe that under the aegis of Minister Ziobro, the Justice Fund can be managed in a manner that derogates the provisions of the Public Finance Act. I do not believe that the Minister of the Polish Government could grant grants for projects for which he was responsible at the university. I can't believe that the fund that was designed for victims of crime was renovating toilets at the Racibor school. That is why my request today for an adjournment, which will give the Prime Minister time to gather the relevant information and present it to the High Sejm. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u282	Thank you, sir. There's been a request for a recess. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 205 for, 228 against... How many stopped? Because I didn't make it. Now the machine was faster than me. [[It's impossible, Marshal.]] I'm gonna ask for the results again. The machine beat me this time. [[Voice from the room: First time.]] [[Voice from the room: We'll have to repeat it.]] 441 Members voted. 205 - for, 228 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u283	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I believe Minister Ziobro didn't see to the financial economy, the Justice Fund. I believe the claims that were included in the information of the Supreme Audit Chamber that the funds from the Fund were spent in an unintended and uneconomic manner, [[Applause]] and practices were conducive to the development of corrupt behaviour. In this situation, I request that the deliberations be postponed and information prepared by the Minister of Justice for the High House on the functioning of the Fund. The House must know whether the Minister is preparing his own defence when preparing his application for the waiver of the immunity of President NIK, [[Applause]] or It's just a defensive tactic. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u284	But, sir, this microphone collects very well. You really don't have to scream like that. [[Voice from the hall: Thieves!]] [[280 million.]] There you go, Minister Michael Wójcik. There you go. [[Minister - Member of the Council of Ministers Michał Wójcik: As the opposite vote.]] As the opposite voice. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u285	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start with some data that's pretty interesting. [[Thieves!]] When you were in charge, the victim's aid centers were spent on 1,200 grand. PLN 80 million in our time. Count it, 70 times more. [[Touchdown, applause]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make this very clear... [[Some Members chant: Thiefs! Thieves! Thieves!]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the hall: Where's the money?]] No, I'm asking you where the money was, when you were in charge, where the money was. Ask your colleagues who were in charge at the time, and so are you. This money, ladies and gentlemen, was directed to the fire department, and the fire department, 180 million, saves whether or not someone is affected by the Civic Platform or anything else. Sir, you're sitting down. Have a seat, sir. I warn you, sir, please sit down. Thank you, Minister. I'd like to end this right now, Marshal. Please. [[Voice from the room: What is it?]] [[Voice from the hall: Thieves!]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, don't yell for yourselves. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: No, about you.]] 180 million to firefighters, yes, ma'am, to save people, save lives and save people's health. [[Applause]] What did the firemen do to you? Answer me. 16,000. volunteer firefighters, and you protest. You didn't do it. [[Where's the headquarters of the foundation that got the millions?]] [[Some Members chant: Thiefs! Thieves! Thieves!]] 50 million PLN for hospitals. Where have you been? Why didn't you give the money? Even the Alarm Clinic is bothering you. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u286	Ladies and gentlemen, you're giving yourself a great certificate. I just want to say that because it's very clear... [[Applause]] [[How many times have you screamed from there?]] Mr President, don't wave around here and don't raise your voice. Ladies and gentlemen, this is outrageous behavior. I would like to ask you to remain serious. We're in the plenary room. [[Tell Mrs. Kaminski what the goat photos were showing.]] If you would like to discuss it with me, I would like to invite you to my office after the vote has been completed. Here you go, formal conclusion... Sorry, there's been a request for adjournment. I will put this motion to the vote. [[Being a thief is a shame, Marshal.]] Member, say it again. [[Being a thief is a shame, Marshal. That's right.]] [[Applause]] Who did you call a thief, Member? [[Voice from the hall: Us, us.]] I understand you're referring to each other. Very well, thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: No, to you.]] Please, a formal request has been made for the adjournment of the sitting. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. [[May I make a correction? You misunderstood my motion.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[You voted for Banasi, not me.]] 451 Members voted. 210 for, 233 against, 8 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. And with the last formal motion by Mr Robert Winnicki, the Confederation. You're welcome. [[Your man. Most applauded yesterday.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you do not want someone to review your speeches from the speaker, so please do not review Mr Winnicki's speech when he is going to the speaker.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u287	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I request that the sitting be closed, because I think that after yesterday's debate on the state of emergency in this Chamber, Members of the Left and the Civic Coalition have made a great deal of commitments, talking about how much they want to take immigrants into our country. That's why we're taking the initiative to make amends and print them the first page of the invitation. Each of you, ladies and gentlemen, may make an invitation to the Foreigners' Office [[Applause]] for a foreigner to bring him to Poland at his own expense. What is more, we have already specified for you the right option that you will accommodate this foreigner in your own home. Well, we're waiting for how many of you to file these applications for a foreigner's stay at your expense. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in your own home and will you be willing, [[Applause]] To do it. We're gonna be handing out these conclusions. [[Voice from the room: Along with the goat.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u288	Thank you very much, sir. Mr President, I will not put this proposal to the vote because we cannot stop the sitting where there are tax-related matters. We return to the consideration of item 16 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media about the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the establishment of the National Day of the Victory of the Wielkopolska Uprising. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1605. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 1605 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. Everyone was in favour, no one was against, no one held back. The Sejm passed a law on the establishment of the National Day of the Victory of the Wielkopolska Uprising. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1597-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u289	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Public Finance Commission considered the amendments tabled at the time of the second reading to the draft law on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, corporate income tax. 64 amendments were tabled during the second reading. The Commission recommends 26 amendments to accept, 38 amendments to reject. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u290	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1597. The Commission also presents minority proposals as well as an additional amendment report. Minority proposals 1 and 2 and amendments 1 to 18 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Individual Income Tax Act. In the first amendment to Article. 6 applicants propose e.g. maintenance of the paragraph. 4 with changes. This amendment is combined with the 55th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests rejection. The adoption of these amendments will render amendments 2, 3 and 54 futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 55 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 221 - for, 232 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 2nd amendment, applicants propose among others. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 6 amendments to paragraph 4, 4b and 8. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will render amendments 3 and 54 futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 221 - for, 232 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, applicants propose among others. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 6 do not repeal. 4 and 4b. This amendment is combined with the 54th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 3 and 54 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 220 for, 231 against, one abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 4th amendment to the article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 applicants propose not to add point 19. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 213 - for, 233 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment, applicants propose among others. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 add point 2a-2h. Amendments 30, 36, 39 and 43 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The adoption of these amendments will render amendments 11, 13, 29, 37 and 44. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments 5, 30, 36, 39 and 43 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 213 - for, 240 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 6th Amendment, applicants propose among others. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 add point 154. Amendments 14, 33, 40 and 57 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The adoption of these amendments will render amendments 32, 41 and 58 futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 6, 14, 33, 40 and 57 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 448 - for, no one was against, there were two abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. The 7th amendment proposes, among other things, applicants. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 23zc repeal paragraph. 3 and add paragraph. 3a and 3b. Amendments 21 and 50 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting Amendments 7, 21 and 50 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. Everyone was in favour, no one was. against and no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 8th amendment, applicants propose among others. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 26 other wording of the added paragraph. 4a and 4b and the addition of paragraph 4. 4c. The adoption of this amendment will result in the nullity of the 1st minority proposal and the 10th amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 445 for, 6 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. Article 26 (2) (b) 1 applicants propose a new wording of point 2c added. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 85 - for, 368 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. 1. The minority's proposal has become pointless. The 10th amendment has also become obsolete. In the 11th amendment, applicants propose, among others. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Article 26 (2) (b) 13b maintain the wording of point 2. This amendment is combined with the 29th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The adoption of these amendments will render the 2nd minority proposal and amendments 13, 37 and 44. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 11 and 29 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 215-- for, 239-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments. I will now put Amendment 25 to the vote first, whose adoption or rejection will decide on other amendments. In the 25th amendment, applicants propose amendments to the provisions of the amending act concerning vacathio legis. The adoption of this amendment will render amendments 28, 45 to 48, 51 and 60 to 64 futile. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 25th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 220 for, 233 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. The 12th amendment proposes changes of an editorial and legislative nature. Amendments 19, 26, 27, 38, 52 and 62 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting Amendments 12, 19, 26, 27, 38, 52 and 62, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 395 - for, 7 - against, holding 50. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 13th amendment, applicants propose among others. do not repeal Article. 27b. Amendments 37 and 44 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The adoption of these amendments will render the 2nd minority proposal irrelevant. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 13, 37 and 44 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 212 - for, 242 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the second minority application, applicants shall propose not to repeal Article. 27b. We're voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 217 - for, 232 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 15th amendment, applicants propose amendments to Article. 30h and the addition of Article. 30ha. Amendments 31 and 42 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 15, 31 and 42 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 82 for, 370 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 16th amendment, the applicant shall propose to delete the amendments to Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 10a and 10b. This amendment is linked to the 49th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 16 and 49 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 450 for, 2 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 17th amendment to the article. 38 applicants propose to add paragraph. Six, nine, nine, six, six, nine, six, six, nine, six, six, nine, six, six, nine, six, six, nine, six, six, nine, The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 17th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 209 - for, against - 242, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 18th amendment to the inserted article. 52jb paragraph. 2 (1) applicants propose a new wording of the introduction into the calculation. Amendment 24 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 18 and 24 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 220 for, 232 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. Amendments 20 to 23 were tabled in Article. 2 draft amending act containing amendments to the Corporate Income Tax Act. In the 20th amendment, applicants propose among others. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 8 plus paragraph 8 plus paragraph 8 plus paragraph 8 plus paragraph 8 plus paragraph 8 The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 20th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 398 - for, 1 - against, abstained 53. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 22nd amendment, applicants propose among others. in the inserted article. 24ca paragraph. 14 add point 6. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 22nd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 444 - for, 2 - against, 7 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 23rd amendment to the inserted article. 24ca paragraph. 14 applicants propose to add a new point. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 23rd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 167 for, 236 against, 47 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendments 28 and 29 were tabled in Article. 9 draft amending act containing amendments to the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain revenues generated by individuals. In the 28th amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for Amendments 51 and 63 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments 28th, 51st and 63rd, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 219 - for, 233 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the third minority application of the applicant by the addition of Article. 12a to the draft law propose amendments to the law on the income of local government units. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 215 - for, 233 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. Amendments 32, 41 and 58 have become pointless. In the 34th amendment, applicants propose among others. in the inserted article. Article 8d (8) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 4 Act on the tax on goods and services of removal of the reference. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 34th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 452 - for, 1 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 35th amendment to the article. 81 The Act on public-funded healthcare provision is proposed by the applicant to add paragraph. 2ca and 2cb. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 35th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 221 - for, 230 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 45th amendment to the article. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The first sentence of the draft law shall be proposed by the applicant to submit an application from 1 October 2022 to 31 March 2023. Amendment 46 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments 45th and 46th would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 412 - for, no one was against, 38 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 47th amendment to the article. 39 of the draft law, the applicant shall propose a different wording of paragraph 1. 3. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 47th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 280 - for, no one was against, 174 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 48th amendment, the applicants propose a new wording of the Article. 51. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 48th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 220 for, 231 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 53rd amendment to the article. 69 of the draft law, the applicant proposes to add paragraph 1. 2. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 53rd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 452 - for, against was no one, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 56th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 70a for the bill. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 56th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 446 - for, no one was against, 7 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 59th amendment to Article. The draft law of the applicant proposes to add paragraph 83. 5. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 59th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 444 - for, no one was against, 8 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 60th amendment to the article. 88 applicants propose a new wording of point 3. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 60th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 443 - for, against was no one, held back 10. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 61st amendment to Article. 88 applicants propose a new wording of point 4. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of the ladies and gentlemen is in favour of the 61st amendment, will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 442 - for, no one was against, 10 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 64th amendment to the article. 88 applicants propose to add point 7. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 64th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 221 - for, 231 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who of the ladies and gentlemen is in favour of adopting the whole draft law in print no. 1597 along with the adopted amendments, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 235 - for, 217 - against, abstained 2. The Sejm passed a law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the Government draft law on family welfare capital. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1601-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Ursula Rusecka to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u291	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I submit an additional report on printing No. 1601-A of the Social Policy and Family Committee on the Government draft law on family welfare capital, print No. 1509. At its 38th meeting, the Sejm re-directed the draft law contained in print No. 1601 to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after considering 32 amendments, proposes that seven, 25 be rejected in its entirety by adopting the draft law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u292	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1601. At the same time, the Commission presents minority proposals and amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. 2 applicants shall propose the addition of point 1a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 203 - for, 243 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Point 3 (4) of the proposal for an amendment to point (a) shall be made by the applicant. e. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 209 - for, 232 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 3 applicants propose to add point 5. Amendments 9, 10, 11, 12, 14, 15, 20, 22, 23, 25, 27, 28 and 30 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will render amendments 13 and 16 unobtrusive and both minority proposals. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 3, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14, 15, 20, 22, 23, 25, 27, 28 and 30, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 220 for, 231 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 4th amendment to the article. 4 applicants shall propose amendments to paragraph. 1 and 4. Amendment 7 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of amendments 5 and 6. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 4 and 7, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 207 - for, 233 - against, 10 stopped. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. In the 5th amendment to the article. 4 applicants propose to give a new wording to the paragraph. 1 and delete paragraph. 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in an unobjectability of the 6th amendment. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 209 - for, 240 - against, 2 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 4 applicants shall propose the addition of paragraph. 1a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 207 - for, 232 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. 6 applicants propose to delete point 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 205 - for, 231 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the first minority application, applicants shall propose an amendment to Article. 14. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 217-- for, 232-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 13th amendment to the article. 15 applicants shall propose an amendment to paragraph. 1. Amendment 16 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 13 and 16 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 218 - for, 233 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 17th amendment, applicants propose to give a new wording to the article. 41. Amendments 18, 19, 21, 24 and 29 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 17, 18, 19, 21, 24 and 29, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 453 - for, no one was against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 26th amendment to the article. 48 applicants propose to add point 7a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 26th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 209 - for, 231 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second minority application, the applicant shall propose the deletion of Article. 55. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 210 for, 232 against, 10 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 31st amendment, the applicants propose the addition of Article. 57a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 31st amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 219-- for, 232-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 32nd amendment to the article. 58 applicants propose to add a new wording to point 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 32nd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 441 - for, 10 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1601, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 433 - for, 6 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm passed a law on family custody capital. [[Applause]] We are returning to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the report of the Education, Science and Youth Committee and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the governmental draft law amending the Law on the protection of animals used for scientific or educational purposes. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1551-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mr Aleksandr Anczynski to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u293	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Additional report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government draft law amending the Law on the protection of animals used for scientific or educational purposes, print No 1454. The Joint Committees: the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, after considering the amendments on 29 September 2021, propose to reject the proposal to reject the draft law, reject 26 amendments and adopt 11 and adopt the draft law in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u294	Thank you. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1551. The committees present in the additional report a proposal to reject the draft law in its entirety and amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. I will now put to the vote the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety, as put forward in the discussion. The committees are requesting that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 210 for, 243 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm's motion is denied. Amendments 1 to 34 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Law on the protection of animals used for scientific or educational purposes. In the first amendment to Article. 2 (2) 1 applicants propose a different wording of the following point 12. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 208 - for, 244 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, applicants propose a different wording of the following Article. 3a and 3b. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 210 - for, 241 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 8 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 206 - for, 244 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 8 applicants propose e.g. other wording of the added paragraph. 4. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 206 - for, 237 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 21 applicants propose to add paragraph. 2a. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 205 - for, 245 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the inserted article. 21b applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 3. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 209 - for, 243 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 23. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 207 - for, 243 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 25. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 448 for, 3 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. 27 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 449 - for, no one was against, held back 1. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose, inter alia, the other wording of point 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 209 - for, 240 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 11th amendment to the article. 34 applicants shall propose a different wording to be added to the paragraph. 2a-2e. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 206 - for, 244 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose, inter alia, the other wording of point 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 208 - for, 244 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 13th amendment to the article. 38 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 207 - for, against - 244, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 14th amendment, applicants propose not to add Article. 38a. The adoption of this amendment will render amendments 15, 16 and 18 futile. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 208 - for, 243 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 15th amendment, applicants propose not to add Article. 38a. Amendment 18 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. Their adoption will make amendments 16, 17, 19 and 24 futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 15 and 18 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 207 - for, 244 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 16th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of the following Article. 38a. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 16th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 443 for, 8 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 17th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 40. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of amendments 19 and 24. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 17th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 205 for, 239 against, one abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 19th amendment, the applicant shall propose an amendment to Article. 40. Amendment 24 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. Their adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 23. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 19 and 24 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 439 - for, no one was against, 11 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 20th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 41. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 20th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 449 - for, there was no one against, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 21st amendment to the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose, inter alia, other wording of points 4 and 5. The committees request that these amendments be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 21st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 208 - for, 243 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 22nd amendment to the article. Article 46 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 applicants propose inter alia. other wording of point 6. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 22nd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 206 - for, 242 was against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendment 23 has become unobtrusive. In the 25th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 52. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 25th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 205 - for, 243 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 26th amendment to the article. 54 applicants propose e.g. the addition of a paragraph. 1a. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 26th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 209 - for, 242 was against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 27th amendment to Article. 55 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 8. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 27th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 208 - for, 243 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 28th amendment to the article. 56 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 28th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 208 - for, 241 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 29th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 58. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 29th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 405 - for, 45 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 30th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of the following Article. 60a and 60b. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of Amendment 31. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 30th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 450 for, 2 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. The 31st amendment has become unobtrusive. In the 32nd amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 66. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 32nd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 191 - for, 259 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 33rd amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 The applicants propose a different wording of point 4 and 7. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 33rd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 431 - for, 18 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 34th amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 applicants propose, inter alia, the addition of point 13. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 34th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 207 - for, 243 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 35th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 3. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 35th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 442 for, 4 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 36th amendment, the applicants propose to delete Article. 5. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 36th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 206 - for, 241 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 37th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 15. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 37th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 448 - for, 2 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1551, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 246 for, 206 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on the protection of animals used for scientific or educational purposes. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1430-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Kazimierz Moskal to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u295	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I present an additional report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government bill amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science, print no. 1398. The Committee on Education, Science and Youth considered the amendments tabled at second reading on 30 September 2021. The Commission proposes that the High Sejm accept Amendments 1 and 3, reject Amendment 2 and reject the proposal to reject the draft law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u296	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1430. The Commission also makes a proposal in an additional report to reject the draft law in its entirety and to amend it. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. The Commission requests that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 207 - for, 242 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the first amendment, applicants propose a different wording of the title of the Act. Amendment 3 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 3 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 320 - for, 8 - against, with 118 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. 275 of the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science applicants propose a different wording of the added paragraph. 1a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 2, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 208 - for, 238 - against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1430, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 242 - for, 209 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science and a law on specific support instruments in connection with the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus. [[Applause]] We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the report of the Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets and of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the draft law amending the Act - Environmental Law and the Act on the greenhouse gas emission management system and other substances. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1553-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u297	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During the second reading of the government draft law amending the Act - Environmental Law and the Act on greenhouse gas and other substances emissions management system, one amendment was tabled. This amendment is based on the fact that the upper limit of penalties for poor quality data transmission returns to the current level of 25 000. zł. It should be stressed that the penalty can be proportionate, because it can be charged from 200 PLN per day to 25 000, but the joint committees recommend that the High House adopt this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u298	Thank you. The committees are bringing in the adoption of the draft law from print no. 1553. The committees also present in an additional report an amendment on which the Sejm will vote first. In the amendment to the article. 236d paragraph. 2 Act - Environmental law applicants propose to set an upper limit of an administrative penalty of 25 000. zł. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 435 - for, 10 - against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1553, along with the amendment adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 439 - for, 9 - against, abstained 2. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act - Environmental Law and the Act on greenhouse gas emissions management and other substances. We are returning to the review of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1603-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u299	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! At yesterday's meeting, the Committee on Public Finance discussed two amendments made during the second reading to the draft law amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services and some other laws, print No 1547. The Commission has given a negative opinion on both amendments and recommends that the High House adopt this draft law in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u300	Thank you. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1603. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. 1 applicant in point 5 (a) c propose in Article. 87. 5b add a different wording to the entry for calculation. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will render the 2nd amendment futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 213 - for, 230 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 1 applicant in point 5 (a) c propose in Article. 87. 5b add a different wording to the entry for calculation. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 214-- for, 232-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1603, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 448 - for, 1 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the refund of excise duty contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1592-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Jerzy Małecki to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u301	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I present an additional report by the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the excise duty refund Act contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. During the meeting on 30 September 2021, the joint Sejm Commissions: Public Finance and Agriculture and Rural Development considered two amendments tabled during the second reading of the above mentioned paragraph. draft law, print Nos 1451 and 1592. Both amendments tabled concerned the content of the Article. Point 1 and both received a negative recommendation from the committee. The committees recommend the reception of the aforementioned. the bill in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u302	Thank you. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print No 1451. The committees also present in an additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. Both amendments were tabled to the Article. 1 Amending Act containing amendments to the excise duty refund Act included in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. In the first amendment to Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 applicants shall propose amendments to points 1 and 2. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of the 2nd amendment. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 214 - for, 239 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 applicants shall propose an amendment to points 1 and 2. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 214 - for, 237 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft print bill 1451, in full, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 445 for, 2 against, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the refund of excise duty contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the Government draft law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining and some other laws. The additional report shall be in print No 1602-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr. Krzysztof Janusz Kozik to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u303	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present an additional report by the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the government draft law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining and some other laws, print No 1503. At its 38th meeting on 29 September 2021, the Sejm re-directed the draft law in print No 1602 to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets in order to examine the four amendments tabled at second reading. The Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets, after considering the amendments at its meeting on 30 September 2021, proposes three amendments to be rejected, one amendment to be accepted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u304	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1602. The Commission also presents an additional report of amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. 1 applicants in point 6 propose to add a different wording to point 6. a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 208 - for, 232 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 1 The applicant shall propose in point 6 that point be deleted. b. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 209 - for, 231 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 1 applicants propose to make a different wording of point 7. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 218 - for, 231 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 1 applicants propose to add point 17. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 218 - for, 232 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no.162, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 439 - for, no one was against, 10 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 13. of the agenda: Report from the Legislative Commission on the Commission's draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the consistency of the terminology of the legal system. The additional committee report is in print No 1555-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Daniel Milewski to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u305	Dear Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Legislative Commission, after considering the proposed amendment, recommends that it be adopted as well as that the draft law be adopted as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u306	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1555. The Commission also presents in its additional report an amendment on which the Sejm will vote first. In the only amendment to the article. 4 applicants propose to replace the words "Capital City of Warsaw" with the words "Capital City of Warsaw." The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work, Marshal.]] [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] And it's working now because it didn't work for me either. 450 Members voted. 446 - for, no one was against, stopped 4. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1555, along with the amendment adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 439 for, 1 against, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending certain laws to improve the consistency of the terminology of the legal system. We would like to return to the review of item 18 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government's draft law on guaranteed housing credit and on the repayment of this credit due to the enlargement of the household. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1596-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mrs Gabriela Masłowska to submit an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u307	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During the second reading of the government draft law on guaranteed housing credit and the repayment of this credit made in connection with the enlargement of the household, print No. 1541, 11 amendments were tabled. At its 38th meeting, the Sejm sent these amendments back to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Public Finance. The joint committees today have examined the amendments tabled and recommend adopting a single amendment, i.e. Amendment 2, reject the remaining ten amendments and adopt the draft law in its entirety. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u308	Thank you. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1596. The committees in the additional report also present amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. 1 of the draft law, applicants propose a new wording of point 3. Amendments 7 to 11 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 7 to 11 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 209 - for, 229 - against, abstained 4. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 of the draft law, applicants propose a new wording of point 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 436 - for, against - 5, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 of the draft law, the applicants propose a new wording of points 1 and 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 203 - for, 242 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the draft law, applicants propose a new wording of point 1. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 162 - for, 235 - against, 49 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. The draft law of the applicant shall propose a new wording of paragraph 7. 3. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 199 - for, 232 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 7 the draft law of the applicant proposes to add paragraph. 4. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 206 for, 234 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1596, along with the amendment adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 393 - for, 50 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm passed a law on guaranteed housing credit. We are returning to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law on combating unfair exploitation of contract advantages in the marketing of agricultural and food products. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1594-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr John Duda to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u309	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development an additional report on the Government's draft law against unfair exploitation of contract advantages in the marketing of agricultural and food products, print No 1502. 12 amendments to the draft law were tabled during the second reading. The committees at the joint meeting considered the amendments tabled and request that the High House adopt amendments 4, 8, 9 and reject the other amendments. The additional report is contained in print No 1594-A. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u310	Thank you. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1594. The committees also present in the additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. 3 applicants propose the new wording of point 1. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 215 - for, 230 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 6. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: The machine doesn't work!]] Please? [[Just a minute. The razor doesn't work.]] 443 Members voted. For - 77, against - 240, 126 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Member, who doesn't work for? Please check. [[Voice from the room: The razor is not responding.]] [[Voice from the room: You have to put the card in.]] Member, is it working? [[We'll see.]] In the third amendment to the article. 7 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 2 and paragraph 2. 3. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[It's not working!]] Isn't it working? Then please change your seat to another reader and vote. I'll wait. [[It's okay.]] Does it work? Good. 448 Members voted. 201 - for, 237 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose a new wording of the introduction into the calculation. The committees are asking for her party. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is adopting the 4th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 447 - for, no one was against, held back 2. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose the new wording of point (a). and in point 1. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 94 - for, 354 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment, the applicant shall propose to delete paragraph. Article 2 8. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 39 - for, 288 - against, 124 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment, the applicants propose to add paragraph. Article 2a 8. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 53 - for, 395 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose to amend their references. The committees are asking for her party. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 448 - for, 1 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. Article 22 (2) (b) 1 applicants shall propose an amendment to point 2. The committees are asking for her party. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 447 - for, no one was against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 10th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 30. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 209 - for, 233 - against, abstained 7. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 11th amendment, the applicants propose to add paragraph. 5 in Article 5, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 48. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 83 - for, 233 - against, 133 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 12th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 50. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 215 - for, 228 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1594, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 443 for, 5 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm passed a law against unfair exploitation of contract advantages in the marketing of agricultural and food products. We return to the review of item 9 of the Public Finance Commission's report on the government bill amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1565-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u311	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! At yesterday's meeting, the Committee on Public Finance discussed two amendments tabled to the Government's draft law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws in print No 1565. Both amendments were welcomed by the committee and I recommend that they be adopted on behalf of the committee. The Commission also recommends adopting the draft law in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u312	Thank you. The Commission proposes the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1565. The Commission in its additional report sets out the amendments that we will be voting on first. Both amendments were tabled to the Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments. In the first amendment to Article. 82 of the amended law propose a legislative amendment. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 438 - for, no one was against, no one held back 10. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment, the applicant shall propose a different wording of paragraph. Article 1 110zm of the amended law. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 438 - for, no one was against, 11 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1565, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 439 - for, no one was against, no one held back 10. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism on the Government bill amending the Sports Act. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1604-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Dariusz Olszewski to present an additional report to the committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u313	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present the report of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism of 1 October this year. on the government bill amending the Act on Sports, Prints No. 1590, 1604 and 1604-A. The Commission considered the three amendments tabled at second reading and gave an opinion on Amendments 1 and 3 rejecting Amendment 2. With the great approval of the entire committee, we request that the draft law on the amendment of the Sports Act be adopted in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u314	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1604. At the same time, the Commission presents minority proposals and amendments on which we will vote first. All amendments and minority proposals concern Article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Sports Act. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose to leave the existing wording of the Article. 29. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. I'm shouting myself out because I can hear you, and I can't hear myself. Here you go, a little calmer. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the nullity of the 1st minority proposal. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 56 - for, 242 - against, abstained 152. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. 29 applicants propose to add a new wording to the paragraph. 8. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 147 - for, 276 - against, 26 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the second amendment, the applicants propose to leave the existing wording of the Article. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 242 for, 208 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the inserted article. 32b applicants shall propose an amendment to paragraph 32b. 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 13 - for, against - 438, no one held back. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the second minority proposal, the following Article is added: 32c applicants propose to give a new wording to the paragraph. 2. We're voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 159 for, 287 against, 3 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in the form of print No. 1604, along with the amendment adopted, will be willing to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 446 - for, against - 4, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Sports Act. [[Applause]] We are returning to the examination of item 25 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Budget Law for 2021. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1616-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u315	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Eight amendments were tabled to the Law amending the Budget Law for 2021 at second reading. The Committee on Public Finance has examined the amendments and recommends that one legislative amendment be adopted and the other amendments be rejected. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u316	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1616. The Commission also presents a minority proposal and an additional report of amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. Amendments 1 to 7 and minority request were notified in Annex 2 containing a State budget expenditure plan in 2021. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose among others. in Part 16: The law firm of the Prime Minister reduce expenditure by PLN 200 million. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. If you and your fellow Members are in favour of the first amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 217 - for, 233 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 2nd amendment, the applicants propose in Part 29: National defence to reduce expenditure by PLN 5.3 billion. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is a second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 208 - for, 241 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, the applicants propose in Part 29: National defence to reduce expenditure by PLN 3 billion. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 208 - for, 242 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, the applicants propose in Part 29: National defence to reduce expenditure by PLN 3 billion. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 208 - for, 240 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment, the applicant proposes in Part 29: National defence to reduce expenditure by PLN 1 billion. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. If you and your fellow Members are in favour of the 5th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 202 was for, 242 was against, 4 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the application of a minority, applicants propose in Part 39: Transport reduce expenditure by PLN 10 million. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting a minority request would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 207 - for, 243 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 6th amendment, the applicants propose in Part 42: Internal affairs reduce expenditure by PLN 1.5 billion. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 208 - for, 244 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment, the applicant proposes in Part 43: Religious confessions and national and ethnic minorities to reduce expenditure by PLN 16 million. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 200 - for, against - 243, 5 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment, the applicant shall propose an amendment to Annex 6 containing a list of entities for which subjective and targeted grants are planned and the amount of those grants in 2021. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? The vote was 449. For -430, 16 - against, holding down 3. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1616, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 236 - for, 65 - against, 149 abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Budget Law for 2021. [[Applause]] We are returning to the review of item 26 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government draft law amending the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2021. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1615-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u317	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Two amendments were tabled during the second reading of the Around Budget Act. The Committee on Public Finance recommends that both amendments be rejected in the joint vote. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u318	Thank you. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1615. At the same time, the Commission is presenting amendments on which we will vote first. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose to amend the title of the Act. This amendment is combined with amendment 2, in which applicants propose to add an article. 1a. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 210 - for, 240 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1615 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 275 - for, 22 - against, with 154 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2021 and the Law on the Income of Local Government Units. We would like to return to the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Report from the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity on the application by Krystyna Malinowska, a private prosecutor represented by Aleksandra Głogowska's lawyer of 23 October 2018 to allow the Sejm to hold Małgorzata Gosiewska liable for criminal liability. On the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland may be held liable by a Member with the consent of the Sejm. I would like to remind you that the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee is based on Article. 7c paragraph. The 5th Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator proposes that the Sejm reject the request for consent to the criminal liability of Mr Małgorzata Gosievska. On the basis of the article. 7c paragraph. 6 The Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and Senator of the Sejm agrees that the Member should be held liable by means of a resolution adopted by an absolute majority of the statutory number of Members. We will vote on the request for consent to the criminal liability of Małgorzata Gosievska. We're voting. Who of the Members is in favour of the application of the private prosecutor Krystyna Malinowska, represented by Aleksandra Głogówska's lawyer of 23 October 2018 to allow the Sejm to hold Małgorzata Gosievska liable for the act specified in this request, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. For - 71, 308 - against, 33 stopped. The Sejm, against the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes, adopted a resolution on the non-executive consent to the criminal liability of Mr Małgorzata Gosiewska for the act specified in the application of the private prosecutor Krystyna Malinowska, represented by Aleksandra Głogowski's lawyer dated 23 October 2018. We return to the examination of item 30 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act - Code of Commercial Companies and some other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print 1515 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 137 for, 275 against, 36 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. On the basis of the article. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I am directing this draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications for consideration. We return to the consideration of item 34 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the law - Traffic Law and some other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Infrastructure Committee for consideration. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print 1504, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. For - 51, 384 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the application and thus referred the draft law to the Infrastructure Commission for consideration. We proceed with the examination of item 35 of the agenda: the report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2020 together with the opinion of the Committee on State Control (prints 1329 and 1501) - vote. At its 37th meeting, the Sejm held a discussion on the report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2020. The Commission for State Control recommends not to adopt the report. I will put to the vote the proposal for a report. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has not adopted the report. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2020 contained in print 1329 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 218 for, 233 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the proposal and therefore did not accept the report. We proceed with the examination of item 36 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (print No 1623). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you like to take the floor on this? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print No 1623 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 426 for, no one was against, 13 stopped. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. That's where we ended the vote. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 min. 46 hrs. 18 min 54]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed to the examination of item 37 of the agenda: Information for the Polish Sejm and Senate on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period January-June 2021 ( Portugal's presidency in the Council of the European Union) together with a draft resolution (prints no 1528 and 1572). I ask the Minister for European Union Affairs, Mr Konrad Szymański, to provide information. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u319	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Portuguese Presidency's time was another six months when the main determinant of the Union's action was the consequences of the pandemic. Luckily, not the most pressing problems directly related to medical, health or vaccine availability. These problems were solved, but most of all they were about economic consequences. The most important conclusion that the Union is trying to draw after a pandemic is, of course, the reduction of dependence on third countries in the area of trade policy, industrial policy. Poland was one of the promoters of such thinking, recognising that if the experience of pandemics is to bring something important in the Union, it is above all a reduction of dependence not only on medical issues but on digital issues, for example. In the area of building resilience, as the Presidency has called it, the debate on migration and asylum must certainly be seen. Poland has led to a breakthrough in European thinking in this area. We have indicated that any migration policy depends on whether we can effectively protect the external border. Today, under very dramatic circumstances, we find that we were right about this. The next issue is a block of climate issues. First of all, it should be noted that Poland, like all the countries of Central Europe, expects first and foremost flexibility in this policy, so that the pace, the transition scenario is adapted to our social and economic conditions. This is guaranteed by the fact that the transformation objectives are set at an EU-wide level. That gives us a field of flexibility. Also, 10-year settlement cycles offer quite a lot of flexibility for future decisions. However, decisions in the area of climate policy in the coming months will be the most difficult, most serious negotiations to which we will join. The main aim is to ensure that costs, burdens are distributed fairly both between countries and between sectors, as well as between social groups. Climate policy, energy and climate change must not be linked to an increase in energy poverty. At the same time, we stress that the countries of Central Europe, including Poland, must pursue an ambitious policy in this respect in their own interest, because delaying the energy transition results in only an increase in the costs of this process. In the digital area, the Portuguese Presidency focused on two main issues, two regulations. Firstly, in a market regulation, whose task is to lay down better rules on the relationship between large platforms and the rest of the market. The second point is the Digital Services Regulation, which in turn aims to improve the situation of users in particular with regard to the largest operators. In the social area, which was very important for Portugal, for the Portuguese Government, we had a social summit in Porto. Poland, when pursuing an extremely ambitious social policy, points out that the competences of the Member States play a key role in this matter, and all these documents, these declarations should not even suggest an extension of the European Union's legislative powers in the social area. The last aspect is global, international. We had two very important events. Firstly, the negative developments in Belarus, the wave of repression after the elections. This has led Poland to successfully mobilise the European opinion to adopt the fourth package of sanctions against Belarus, and to offer democratic Belarus, the future Belarus, real support, a real prospect of cooperation with Europe. This response made up of two components: a very strong opposition to the current regime and as far as possible openness to the future is, I think, a prerequisite for the success of this policy. The second point is politics towards Russia. These are closely related topics. The European Council, in line with Polish expectations, rejected the German-French proposals to return to talks with Russia at the highest political level. At the same time, we have confirmed our commitment to the key principles which should govern the European Union's policy towards Russia. Firstly, it is the implementation of Minsk agreements, respect for the integrity of Ukraine, support for civil society and maintain cooperation with the Russian Federation only at the lowest possible level, where both parties have a clear community of interests. The last element I would like to draw attention to is very small, very unsatisfactory progress, but nevertheless progress, in the area of enlargement policy, in particular towards the Western Balkans. We have adopted a new enlargement methodology for Serbia and Montenegro. Two intergovernmental conferences were held. Unfortunately, the same has not been done in relation to Albania and North Macedonia. These are elements of the European Union's policy that are incompatible with the European interest. It is in the European interest to pursue an active enlargement policy, an active policy in the Western Balkans region. We are very much talking about this, we are repeating this, in particular before the next informal summit with the Western Balkans next week. To conclude, I would like to say that in the international area, this Presidency has been focused on very important issues, particularly in relation to Belarus and Russia. These are key issues also from a Polish point of view. As far as economic issues are concerned, there has been progress, above all, in the European response to the economic consequences of the pandemic, in particular in the area of reducing dependence on third countries. I would like to ask the High Chamber to adopt information on Polish policy in the European Union during the Portuguese Presidency, which is much more detailed than my speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u320	Thank you, Minister. I ask Mr Andrzej Grzyb to present the justification for the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u321	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I submit on behalf of the European Union Commission a draft resolution in which the committee asks the High Sejm to accept the information submitted by the Government on the Polish activity during the Portuguese presidency of the Council of the European Union. This is the conclusion after the debate and this was the vote in the European Union Committee on Affairs. The Presidency took place at a time of very important changes in the international environment. First of all, there has been a change in the chair of the President of the United States. This has also opened up a new opportunity for the EU-US summit, which seems to open up a new era in relations between the European Union and the United States. In addition, we have faced this post-election crisis in Belarus and the sanction system that has been launched. I will not go further, because Minister Szymański spoke about it. But what was most important, of course, what all the Member States and all the EU institutions were most interested in, of course, is the pandemic or post-pandemic crisis. It took most of the time. Of course, in this environment it should also be mentioned that migration pressures have not been dealt with in any way, particularly on the African continent, in some way. No new instruments have been found in these relations to help anything, because this EU-Africa summit simply did not take place during the Presidency, and this was one of the priorities for the global Europe of the Presidency. It is also a failure to make further progress in terms of the Mercosur agreement. Of course, we have some reservations about the EU-Mercosur agreement. This is one of these elements. A resilient, digital, green, social and global Europe - such were the general calls that the Portuguese Presidency set up during its six-month presidency in the European Union. On 20 January, Portuguese Prime Minister António Costa presented the Presidency's programme in Parliament. He told me about the main targets. Rebuilding the economy after the pandemic. Vaccinations against COVID-19, but this is still in this context the full supply of vaccines to all Member States. It seems to me that there was also a question of helping third countries, because the European Union is one of the most important donors to fund precisely these vaccines for third countries. Without a global solution to this issue, and particularly in the European Union's neighbourhood, it will be difficult to talk about some important opening. And, of course, the digital and climate transformation and the strengthening of the pillar of social rights and relations with the United States and the United Kingdom, Great Britain, which is already outside the European Union. At the same time, he called for cooperation to achieve these objectives. The call was addressed not only to the European Parliament and the Commission but also to all Member States. Lapidarically, he included this in his statement, which was the Presidency's motto: It is time to act for a fair, ecological and digital recovery. These objectives were also presented in the Commission for European Union Affairs by the Portuguese Ambassador. One of the most important events of the Presidency, as also emphasised in his presentation in the High House by Minister Szymański, was the social summit, which was the main undertaking on social issues by the Portuguese Presidency. It was held in Porto on May 7th and 8th. And here we should add that this summit was not only about social issues in a literal sense, but also about the epidemiological situation and the digital, ecological and fair transformation of Europe. In particular, the Declaration identifies the issue of job protection and the role of small and medium-sized enterprises in this process, and the issue of social poverty, particularly among the weakest, that, so to speak, part of the European Union's societies, which are incomplete families and children. Member States, including Poland, at the Porto Summit accepted the action plan, which in fact approved the agenda that was adopted under the European Pillar of Social Rights, which was still adopted during the Swedish Presidency. An important element was the findings - and the debate on this - of the Community's agricultural policy for 20232027, which were finalised in the framework of the long-standing negotiations which have lasted since the previous parliamentary term and have been finalised by the Council and the European Parliament on 28 June 2021. This agreement was in fact expected already in 2018, as Mr Siekierski can testify, who chaired the Committee on Agriculture of the European Parliament in his previous term of office, but there was no political will either by the Member States or in Parliament to approve this package of regulations on Community agricultural policy. This has now been adopted, but this has delayed the implementation of the new agricultural policy, which has been postponed to 2023. That is why I stress this element of the Presidency's work, because the agreement has de facto defined fundamental reforms within the framework of the CAP, including. concerns the introduction of Community agricultural policy strategic plans. At the moment these works are taking place, among others. in the Polish government, there was also the first round of public consultation. The public consultation is translated into the provisions of the CAP Strategic Plan, which will have to be approved by the European Commission, as well as the National Plan for Reconstruction. So this is completely new. The second element is the common horizontal organisation of agricultural markets. In addition, climate law, which sets medium-term targets by 2030, was approved on 28 June, called Fit for 55. This concerns the reduction of net emissions by 2030 for 1990 and the achievement of climate neutrality by 2050. We will still have much to do with this package, because this will be followed by the whole legislative package that will be submitted this mid-year. The ratification of the Reconstruction Fund was also a success. We have had an emotional discussion in this House. This ratification has, of course, opened up the whole process of approval by the European Commission of national reconstruction programmes and, as such, is being validated by the Council of the European Union, i.e. the process of twice the approval of national plans has been launched. In this regard, Poland is still ahead of this decision. What was Poland's activity in priority areas? Minister Szymański spoke about this, but let me draw attention to the fact that in terms of Europe's resilience, Polish activity concerned among others. to participate in the development of border protection mechanisms, including those related to epidemic restrictions, with the so-called 'Border Protection Mechanisms'. a green passport, as well as what we would call exclusion from the introduction of a green passport, issues relating to the MFF, the multiannual financial framework, the Next Generation EU Fund, the verification of own resources, the Fund for Reconstruction and the SURE instrument aimed at financing the reduction of the risks associated with unemployment caused by the post-epidemic crisis. With regard to green Europe, the main priority was, of course, the discussion on climate neutrality issues, which has been repeatedly present in our House, or the future legislative package related to the Fit for task mentioned earlier. 55, which aims to build an architecture for the implementation of this objective by 2030. I think we will have a very broad and diverse discussion on these objectives. And, of course, I will mention here the common agricultural policy, which I was talking about initially. With regard to digital Europe, I would like to point out data management and to start working on the Digital Services Act and the regulation of digital markets on how fair relations between digital platforms and the services they use should develop, while ensuring the openness and transparency of these relations. Of course, I'll name it here. also issues concerning artificial intelligence, what rights to give artificial intelligence - as discussed in the previous term of the European Parliament - who will respond if artificial intelligence has negative effects: the owner of artificial intelligence or she herself will have legal responsibility, so to speak. These are insanely complicated matters. I said about social Europe. I would like to mention for the sake of order this - each time we talk about it - what financial transfers were. High Izbo, we have included in the report that we received, data for a period of 5 months and they are beneficial for Poland, because the net amount for this period of 5 months was 4170 million euro, with flows from all titles being over 9 billion euro, membership fee - 2.9 EUR billion. Hence, the balance for a period of 5 months is over 4 billion. 22 draft laws implementing the law of the European Union into the Polish legal system were also adopted at this time - and this should be mentioned - of course, these are government projects which are currently at the stage of Parliament's work. At the same time, Poland has put forward 53 positions on the various legislative acts that are in the legislative process and we, as the Commission for European Union Affairs, have assessed them on behalf of the High House, also in the context of recommendations and expectations as regards the government. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To conclude, I would like to say that the committee, after a very diverse discussion, after various demands, as I am simply mentioning and announce, adopted the report by a majority, recognising as positive actions during the Presidency, although, as I said, the committee's work and the debate had different voices from each club. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u322	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Sylvester Tulaev on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u323	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the information of the Minister, the government about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work in the European Union from January to June 2021, i.e. during the next Portuguese Presidency. Indeed, the information is extremely extensive. Minister Konrad Szymański, as always very well, very competently presented it. It is an extremely comprehensive document, because it is worth noting that this document is more than 120 pages of information about the work in the European Union, about our commitment, about how the work was done. What is worth paying attention to is that the next Presidency had to focus on post-COVID reconstruction issues all the time. I would like to draw attention to two - or, in fact, after a certain period of time, three - packages of Community market legislation. The former actually referred to the construction of the market, i.e. mainly to balancing the relationship between large online platforms and the rest of users, in particular from an economic point of view. Above all, it is about interoperability, access to data, better regulation of unfair consumer practices. The second Digital Services Package focuses more on social issues. This primarily concerns issues and rules for moderating discussions, as well as rules for deleting content. What I would like to draw attention to in my speech is, above all, the European Union of Health. In this area, in addition to certain changes, in addition to strengthening the mandate of the medical agency, the Agency for Health and Health at Work. the prevention and control of diseases is undoubtedly an important issue and element of the HERA initiative. This initiative is focused on ensuring that we do not have to look for new ad hoc solutions in any case for future pandemics, future health crises, so that we already have solutions ready, so that we are prepared to react really quickly when it comes to funding research, early funding and a proper response to health crises. What I would also like to draw attention to is, above all, this important element, certainly important also in the context of the Portuguese Presidency, which is the implementation of the European Pillar of Social Rights. Minister Konrad Szymański spoke very widely on this subject, he said in the committee that from the point of view of content, this political direction does not raise any objections, but nevertheless it is important. And, of course, open strategic autonomy is, above all, strictly strategic issues related to the European Union's relations with the outside world. A very important issue. I am thinking primarily of the Eastern Partnership, the Western Balkans, the United States, in particular after President Joe Biden's victory, relations with Great Britain, which is a third country with a very specific position towards the European Union, and, of course, relations with Russia. Finally, I would also like to highlight an important issue relating directly to the pandemic, to the COVID. I think it is worth noting that the agreement and the very rapid, effective implementation of digital vaccination certificates, about the test or the disease being carried out, i.e. the acquisition of self-immunity, deserves attention. It is important that the document, this digital platform, has indeed guaranteed a far-reaching mutual recognition of documents which are issued by individual national administrations. This certainly facilitated the movement and the holiday period. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I request that this information be adopted and support for the draft resolution presented by the Commission for European Union Affairs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u324	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Tadeusz Zwiefka, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u325	Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! The evaluation - both the Portuguese Presidency and the Polish government's contribution to the work of the European Union during the Portuguese Presidency - was presented very carefully and very precisely by Minister Szymański and, in particular, by the rapporteur of our Commission for the European Union, Mr Andrzej Grzyb, and does not require any extension or further discussion, because this is extremely precise and extremely clear. It is worth noting, however, the atmosphere of work in the European Union, especially in these difficult, difficult times when we are committed to struggling with something that was not planned. After all, no one planned that there would be a pandemic, that we would have problems at the external borders of the European Union, and finally that we would not be able to organise pre-planned meetings or important international conferences. The Portuguese Presidency has therefore outlined the most important issues for combating the effects of the pandemic and for preparing the European Union together for the future so that similar situations are not so surprising and that we can deal with them more easily, more effectively or more quickly. Issues relating to the implementation of the extremely ambitious objective of climate neutrality, green Europe, social Europe and social Europe - all of this must have become one of the main elements of the work of the Portuguese Presidency. But how much this efficient Portuguese Presidency differs from the Presidency of the same country in the previous Council of the European Union of 2007. I'll explain why I'm coming back to you for a second. Well, in 2007, the Portuguese Presidency - for this we should always be very grateful to it and it is worth reminding it, because we forget - has led to an extremely important decision for us, namely the enlargement of the Schengen area. The fact that Poland and some other countries, at that time newly adopted into the European Union, were able to join the Schengen area on 21 December 2007, is largely due to the Portuguese Presidency, which insisted on introducing the SIS II information system allowing for the enlargement of the Schengen area. When can such difficult decisions be made? When is that possible? Well, High Izbo, this is possible when there is good cooperation, mutual understanding and search for common interests, not searching for what is different from us, what divides us, or what we can offend each other. This is a huge success, which was also the success of many of our Polish activities in the community. Today, these difficult challenges faced by the Portuguese Presidency in the Council of the Union and faced by all of us require an even greater effort from us as regards joint action, as the community of problem solving shows that we can do this better, faster and more effectively in various areas, which the Union obviously has competence for. For this to happen, there must be a clear and clear system of action for Member States in the European Union. For what is the European Union? We are also the European Union. So by criticizing her or complaining about her, we criticize ourselves. We also complain about ourselves, perhaps about our inability, inefficiency, or about our bad behavior. For this, there is also a need for a clear and clear situation on the management of EU policies. I hope that Minister Konrad Szymański will continue to conduct and direct our affairs in the European Union, but also the Prime Minister of the Polish Government, who, as a member of the European Council (the bell), has the right to say yes or no. Thank you, sir. You can't say critical things. You have to draw conclusions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u326	Thank you. Mr Jacek Czerniak, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u327	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union between January and June 2021, i.e. during the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union (Print No 1528). The period from January to June was a period full of challenges facing Europe. This was mainly related to the pandemic of Coronavirus. Another year of disease spread has shown us all that we still have a long way to go for the pandemic to come to an end. However, this year we were already richer about the experience of last year, but above all we were richer about developing a vaccine against COVID-19. However, this study alone did not solve the problem of a rampant pandemic. There was still a need for a fair and reasonable distribution of doses between countries and social groups. It was not an easy task. It was also not easy to encourage a large part of society to use vaccines when there were no longer problems with vaccine delivery. It is crucial to be able to stop the spread of this dangerous disease. Another problem that Europe had to deal with at the time was the implementation of the Reconciliation Fund following the flare-up of the pandemic. Following successful agreements a year earlier, national recovery plans had to be implemented in each of the 27 Member States. Unfortunately, political problems in many countries, including Poland, have extended this process and the Union was not able to mobilise the first financial tranches to help the countries. With these many problems that she had to face, the Portuguese Presidency has dealt with better or worse. The most important achievement, during this Presidency, should be seen as the development and implementation of the so-called. COVID certificates. It has been harmonised by checking that the tests have been carried out or that the vaccination certificates have been carried out. During this Presidency, ecology was also put on the table by developing EU climate law. This is the main objective of achieving climate neutrality by 2050 and, by 2030, common - it is worth emphasising the word "common" - to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% compared to 1990. However, there have been some problems with international policy. The Portuguese Presidency has failed in some ways, even if the Union-Africa Agreement has not been implemented and there has been no success in enlargement policy in relation to North Macedonia and Albania. That's what Minister Szymanski was talking about. Turning to the role that our country played at the time in the work of the Union, it must be said that we did not use that time as we could. The Portuguese Presidency did not drop the rule of law issue at the time. Unfortunately, proceedings against Poland and Hungary continued. The Union continued to press our government on the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court, declaring its operation illegal. It should also be stressed that at that time we had a situation related to the mine in Turów. The fact that we work together within the Visegrad Group did not protect us from this element, one can say, conflict with the Czech Republic. Oils for fire at national level added a discussion on the superiority of national law on EU law and, unfortunately, more and more frequent threads about the fact that membership of the European Union is not a priority for us. This bad discussion has caused us different moods, but it must be said that our countrymen, our society today is one of the most pro-EU societies in the European Union. When assessing all these activities at international level, especially in the Polish context, the parliamentary club of the Left is negatively assessing the information submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u328	Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u329	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Speaking on behalf of the coalition club Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives on Polish activity during the Portuguese Presidency, I would like to draw attention to a number of issues. Firstly, it was a period of work on ratifying the Fund for Reconstruction. We know very well that there was actually no objection, apart from a small part of the High House, to the approval of this fund. We are aware that some parliamentary circles disagreed here, but in general this process was supported - including the call to the Prime Minister during work in the Commission and in the European Council. We have said that we are ready to support the Prime Minister in this process of approving the multiannual financial framework as well as the Fund for Reconstruction. On the other hand, the ratification process had a very different impact, namely the development of a national reconstruction programme, which is to be financed from new own resources generated by the approval of the Reconstruction Fund. And that's the second topic I'd like to bring up. The preparation of this project has been postponed many times despite the signals that it will appear in a moment. In this preparatory work, the High Sejm was completely omitted. When I asked the President of the Council of Ministers in February to present the objectives of this project, we were sent back by one of the ministers to a conference on 26 February at an hour. 14. I think this is not a good way to exclude the Polish parliament from discussing such a project. First of all, this whole process of approving the national reconstruction programme showed that the support of the High House in relation to this project would be very helpful at the moment in the process of approving the Polish National Reconstruction Plan in the European Commission as well as in the Council of the European Union. At present, we could already have almost EUR 4.5 billion within this 13-percent surplus. That's what's missing. I think it's an experience for the future. We should benefit from the support of the Polish Parliament when we present such important projects in the European Union. The third element is the reform of the Community's agricultural policy. At the moment, the majority of beneficiaries, i.e. farmers, do not really realise how important changes will be made in relation to the new agricultural policy, including the amount and distribution of direct payments and the amount of money for the Rural Development Programme. There will be no cohesion policy in the Rural Development Programme, which has so far been included, for rural areas. Rural areas are to benefit from cohesion policy under regional operational programmes and the operational programme at national level. The fourth issue is climate policy. We know that the government has approved climate policy objectives and climate neutrality by 2050, as well as a very difficult mid-term reduction by 2030, called Fit for 55. This will also be very difficult from the point of view of our internal debate. Of course, I would expect that, since the government's decision was positive, the parliamentary majority would also be in favour of these solutions, and here we have many critical assessments. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to something that will be very important. It's called a wave of renovation. We are not talking about this yet, but we know that the measures envisaged for Poland will be relatively high. They can amount to up to PLN 70 billion. This needs to be prepared for, because someone will have to do it physically, and we know what the difficulties are at the moment in terms of implementing potential. Financial flows. On the one hand, there are the positive ones that I have pointed out here and which the Minister also spoke about, and on the other hand we have seen the report by Mr Jakie. I think that there is a need for a general debate here in the High House not to make such an impression that we have a completely different idea, assessing the six-month presidencies, and a completely different dimension to these general assessments, including market flows. And one last thing: a conference on the future (the bell) of Europe. There should also be a debate in the High House on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u330	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Kaminski, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u331	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to discuss two topics which were at the time most important from the point of view of the Polish national interest. Firstly, climate and energy measures, secondly, the Fund for Reconstruction. It can be said that these cases, looking from the beginning of the year, from month to month for Poland and Poles, have taken a worse turn. Due to the clearly unfavourable energy and climate package for us, the European-German green order of electricity prices in Poland are growing almost as fast as possible in Europe. The Court of Justice of the European Union gives additional sentences punishing us with millions of zlotys a day for the operation of the energy complex in Turów, at a time when, on the Czech side and on the German side, mines and power plants of this type operate without any problems. In the first half of the year, the Germans increased their energy demand by 4.3%. And what did it come from? It was largely derived from the increased burning of brown coal - by 30% and stone - by 23%. The most important component of the energy mix in Germany is natural gas - more than 30%. It's like someone's asking why right now. Nord Stream 2. Pressures on shutting down power plants in Turów, which at the same time accounts for about 6% our energy mix is an expression of another of many examples of pressure on Poland on the part of Brussels, which is trying to impose its dictatorship on us. And meeting these expectations would lead to an energy disaster in Poland. We definitely shouldn't agree to that. The second theme is the Fund for Reconstruction, which we rightly and actually call the Debt Fund. The billions that we were about to get and that were changed by all the cases, and we've even seen them on billboards, as we spend them, didn't come from the sky. This is a loan we owe on behalf of Poles. We will spend this money on concrete, natural, European Union-defined goals, not by us, we do not always need them. Although the issue of spending them is also becoming increasingly debatable. We know that the rule of law or rainbow-related issues mean that some of this money may no longer be received, which is getting louder and more visible. This is another blackmail which Poland is becoming a victim. We warned the government not to put the European Union in the hands of such a levar that this blackmail could happen, but the government always knows better, and then, surprisingly, it answers: and who could know. I'll tell you who might have known: the Confederation might have known because it voted against the debt fund. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u332	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u333	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the first half of 2021, the Presidency of the Council of the European Union was held by Portugal. The motto of this Presidency was this: It is time to ensure fair, green and digital reconstruction. Given these words and, on the other hand, the policy of Law and Justice, I would like to say that it must have been an extremely difficult time for this government, because, after all, neither fair nor digitally nor greenly, this government of Poland is not building. The Presidency's priorities can be assigned to five areas such as Europe: resilient, green, digital, social and finally global. The Portuguese Presidency also paid particular attention to promoting fundamental values and principles of the European Union, such as the rule of law. or human rights. In these areas, too, the objectives were either achieved or not pursued. What did Poland's participation look like in relation to these extremely ambitious assumptions of the Portuguese Presidency? I don't have good information. Although the adoption of national recovery plans was one of the priorities of this Presidency, the government really did everything possible to ensure that these funds did not go to Poland. And it still hasn't worked today. The government did not look better on climate policy issues. Most governments in Europe wanted to protect the lives of citizens, with the exception of the Government of Law and Justice, who stubbornly did everything during this six months to poison Poland and continue to destroy the climate. This is an act directly to the detriment of our country and subsequent generations of young Poles and Poles. In the information we also find flowers such as the fact that Poland supported initiatives in the field of the rule of law. I have to say, I think the only explanation for this is that for several years the information has been created in part by a copy-paste method. This information also states that the promotion of human rights is one of the priorities of Polish foreign policy and that it took place during this Presidency, and that the main thematic areas in Poland's involvement were the promotion of democracy and good governance, the protection of the rights of the weakest groups, including children. And the fact that there are such opinions in this information is an absolute scandal. The politicians of this government are giving orders to push little children out of bounds. This is breaking. not only human rights, but also the lack of any decency. The whole world's watching this. Minister, this government promotes aggression and arrogance, not concern. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Parliamentary Circle, Poland 2050 requests that this information be rejected. She is absolutely different from what we see (the bell) every day. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] The questions have been asked... What's this? A motion for rejection? Yes, a motion for rejection. That is not an option, sir. But I'm putting a marshal in your hands.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u334	You can fold. It's not working. [[Everything is in vain, Mr. Marshal.]] Because at the moment, an amendment can be tabled, not a motion for rejection. Members have asked questions. I close the list of Members who have been asked questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. Mr Andrzej Shejna, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u335	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I feel a little sorry for the Minister as Minister for European Affairs for having to work in an anti-European government. Continuing with Mr Czerniak's excellent speech, I wanted to ask you a few questions. How do you see, in the context of the Portuguese Presidency, the protection of the interests of the Polish chemical industry with regard to the Fit for 55 package? As you can see, further negotiations on the National Plan for Reconstruction, because the continuation of the fight against the European Union puts us among countries that do not have an approved plan, and already some countries, eight or even nine, have funds transferred? And last but not least: how do you see the issues that may not have been raised in this Presidency, but are very important, strengthening, deepening European integration, entry and (The bell) building the path of Poland to the euro area?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u336	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u337	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask about this participation in the work and these main priorities of Poland during the work in the European Union. I have already mentioned parts of this, such as the promotion of human rights and the promotion of the protection of the rights of vulnerable groups, including children's rights. How are these values when the government acts as we see it, with small people, with children, pushing them across the border? What are the values that Poland promotes in the European Union when the government in Poland behaves completely differently? I would also like to ask you about the issue of misinformation. In this information, which you have provided, there is such a view that Poland indicated that a great deal of effort should be made to combat harmful content, including disinformation. How do you agree with the government being one of the biggest misinformation sowers in Poland today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u338	Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u339	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The document reads praiseworthy peans for the Portuguese Presidency, while in Polish public life undermining the authority of the EU authorities, failing to recognise the judgments of the TSUE, or finally before the Prime Minister's request to the Constitutional Tribunal to declare the superiority of Polish law over the EU. On the one hand, Poland is asking for as much money as possible from the EU budget, and on the other, it is trying to convince EU Commissioners that we do not need them, and the Minister of Justice is actually encouraging local authorities to maintain resolutions that remove them from the list of beneficiaries of certain measures. I would like to ask the Minister in this debate to say: Which narrative is true and which is signed by the Polish government? And since this is very important to my constituents, I would ask the Minister (the bell) to send me the position of the government in writing on this matter. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u340	Mr Tomasz Nowak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u341	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I think you are feeling a little lonely in this European Union, because you are joining the position of a country which is, however, Eurosceptic. Opinion about Poland, rule of law, freedom of speech... How does this affect the effectiveness of negotiations? We stand before the fundamental decisions of Fit for 55, this is going to be a very serious undertaking. I would like to ask you what our analysis will look like at the level of our country, and are we building a majority that can safeguard our interests, the interests of our citizens in connection with something that is a major transformational threat to this package, namely energy poverty? Will it be and will we enter into our negotiations the fight for European funds that will protect us from the negative effects of this package? The second thing is taxonomy and gas and atom. It is (the bell) fundamental to Poland's energy strategy.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u342	Mr Tomasz Olichwer, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u343	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Under the leadership of Portugal, among others, continued. work on the draft directive on adequate minimum salaries in the European Union. This is certainly a good proposal, especially for citizens of the new Member States, including Poland. However, a joint agreement has not yet been reached due to the different financial conditions of the Member States. I would therefore like to ask: What position did the Polish government present and present on this issue, and what would the minimum wage proposal be willing to accept? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u344	Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u345	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! During the discussion, Poland stressed in particular the need to guarantee a high level of protection of privacy and the security of ICT data. At the same time, in April, 20,000 leaked from the Government Security Center. records of Polish service officers: names, names, addresses. At the same time, Zakład Ubezpieczeń Społecznych lost several, if not several thousand e-mails of Polish entrepreneurs, not to mention that at about the same time in the so-called. Minister Dworczyk's email affair turned out that Polish government ministers in correspondence use free and unprotected ICT tools between themselves. My question is about the next six months. Are you finally going to take the challenges of the 21st century seriously, on ICT security, on how important this is in today's world?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u346	Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u347	At the beginning of this term in his exposé, the Prime Minister said that we are going to change Europe. And I wanted to say, how are we doing? What have we already changed in Europe? And we can even go back to 2004, when we joined a much looser, federalized Europe to a much smaller extent, where we had more rights. And how have we managed to change Europe from the inside from now on? Because it seems to me that Europe is changing only us and not us Europe. But this must be the case, because the Polish political class, as you can hear here in this Chamber, only deals with cursing each other, who loves the Union more and who declares our ruthless attachment to the European Union more. As long as the option of leaving the European Union is not seriously on the table in Poland, our negotiating position will not be there. If you go into a store and say you have to buy something at all costs, you have no negotiating position anymore. I wouldn't give you a house to sell, to be honest, because in the first negotiations you would tell the client, sir, I can't sell it to anyone else...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u348	Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u349	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! The government is not anti-EU, but pro-Polish, which is why I am very surprised by the state's statements regarding some anti-EU reports that the Polish government has some negative attitude towards the European Union's policy. These are facts. But nobody talks about polexit. The fact is, for example. the cost of emissions and gas prices and the impact of these factors on galloping nitrogen fertiliser prices. So, on the one hand, the fact that you praise the European Union and want to be a country in question at every step does not relieve you of your responsibility in order to negotiate wisely in this European Union. So don't tell the government any anti-EU policies. Some of you have entered this Union under weak conditions and others have very poorly negotiated gas prices. [[Who? With the Union?]] Therefore, when you talk about the fact that you care about Polish agriculture, you show very great hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u350	Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u351	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Work on own resources has been going on permanently for a long time. Did they go any further during the Portuguese Presidency? There was also a period related to the National Plan for Reconstruction or budget matters, so that's one area of business. Of course, I would ask for a written reply. The Portuguese Presidency followed the German Presidency, after President Biden took office, the German Presidency signed the agreement with China quickly at the last moment. Is there awareness of the hijacking of the supply chain and a new look at globalisation? Finally, the problem of the European Green Deal and the common agricultural policy. What are the possible consequences of this for (Bingle) Poland? Very general questions, but I would ask for a written reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u352	Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u353	President of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Kaczyński's security! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will quote some passages from the document informing about the participation of Polish works in the Union: Poland took part in the development of the Union's position on the issue of women's participation in public life, strengthening their social role in the sphere of public life, the impact of women's decision-making and the fight against violence against women and girls. Second quote: Promotion of human rights belongs to the priorities of Polish foreign policy. Third quote: The main thematic areas of Polish involvement were - attention - promotion of democracy and good governance, protection, promotion of the rights of the weakest groups, including children's rights, people with disabilities and people belonging to religious minorities. Really, Minister? How does this apply to Polish reality and to recent events on the Polish-Belarusian border? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u354	Ms Urszula Zielińska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u355	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the context of climate policy, Poland's efforts were aimed at obtaining sufficient resources for the necessary transformation. Another pearl from the report we're reading. The demand for funds in Poland is huge because the government has planned that Polish energy will be based in the future on the most expensive energy sources, on imported gas, whose prices on the stock exchange have just reached a record of 20 years, and on nuclear energy, also one of the most expensive energy sources, also on imported technology. Meanwhile, the measures for transformation in the National Plan for Reconstruction are suspended because Poland is breaking the fundamental rights of the European Community. Winter is coming, energy prices are rising, the penalties for the Turks are rising. Smog poisoned us and poisoned us as he poisoned us, money for transformation as it wasn't, so there isn't. This is your European and climate policy. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u356	Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u357	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Philosopher, sociologist Zygmunt Bauman talked about Europe being an unfinished adventure. The European Union is also an open form, which is worth remembering, and this is a huge catch: what we can share today with the societies of the individual countries that participate in the creation of the European Union. But here in Poland we have a huge problem because the Government of Law and Justice does not want to be present in the Union, wants to leave this Union as soon as possible. Mr. Marshal is also one of those who expressed such an opinion. But for me, the most outrageous is still the statement of President Duda, who spoke about an imaginary community that doesn't actually give us anything. It's still embarrassing. I have a question for the Minister: Are there any medications, some vaccine, so that you (the bell) may begin to think rationally? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u358	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Konrad Szymański is now speaking for the European Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u359	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will try to refer to the many threads that have been raised here. We stress that social policy is indeed the competence of the laws of the Member States. We talk about this often, but this does not change the fact that Poland has been leading an extremely active and ambitious social policy in recent years, that all indicators of social solidarity have improved. In the EU, we point out that this is not a consequence of the EU's or otherwise narrowed competences, but it is a consequence of the country's wealth. There is no other path to increasing social standards than simply getting rich in the country. This wealthing is closely linked simply to commercial integration and to what gives the common market. That is why, in the social debate, the EU is primarily emphasising the role of the common market, which may seem surprising to some of you at first glance. Many questions concerned climate policy. The framework of climate law is just the beginning. The most serious questions are before us. We have, of course, secured the role of the European Council, without which nothing in the Fit for 55 package can take place, because these are decisions that can affect far, very far away as regards the distribution of costs. These costs, we stress, must be fair, so when I answer the question about costs, about protection, about resources for transformation, I can say at least a few things. Firstly, Poland will be the most important beneficiary of the Fair Transformation Fund. Secondly, if it were not for Poland, today there would be no reason for you to talk in this Chamber about the opportunities associated with the socio-climate fund. In fact, if adopted, Poland will be the largest beneficiary of this fund. But in order to be accepted, we must have a guarantee that this fund will not involve a burden on Polish citizens, for Polish households that will exceed the scale of this fund, and that is very easy. That's why today's Fit for 55 package is still more questions than answers. Therefore, Poland remains active in this debate and certainly cannot be reduced to someone who will simply say no or simply: yes, because this matter is too complicated to simplify the answers to a level that at least some of you would like. Thank you very much for pointing out that the information also concerns the assessment of the benefits of Polish membership of the Union. This applies not only to transfers, but also to the benefits distributed much more, but also to much more serious - the benefits of the common market. Twice a year we inform the Sejm about this aspect of Polish membership and I think it's worth it to sound like it. There were some bitter words here that I don't want to run away from, and I want to comment on them. First of all, honesty. Strong words came out, of course it's easy to use strong words here, so it's very easy for everyone, but I'd like to comment on that. As regards honesty and this government, please see the latest report by OLAF, the EU's anti-corruption service. You will see there that Poland belongs to those countries that deal with corruption problems better than the EU average. We are among the countries that are fighting the most effectively in terms of fairness in public life, especially when it comes to honesty in public spending. And this is not my opinion, this is the opinion of institutions to which you usually have much more confidence and you like to invoke their authority. So take a look at this, OLAF's last annual report. There's a lot, a lot of good about Poland. Digitality. I did not expect that this government could be charged with this kind of charge, because the pandemic showed what a real state, not on paper, but in a real state of digitalization, are individual countries. A lot of surprising conclusions. Countries that have an image of extremely efficient, extremely well organized countries have shown their enormous weaknesses in the loss of pandemics. This recently sounded in the election campaign of our western neighbour with a very strong force. At that time Poland showed that the degree of digitization of the state, public services, was large enough that we could easily use these instruments also to help people in very difficult months, the worst months of pandemic. The climate, the transformation I've been talking about. The truth is that the dynamics of climate and energy transformation in the last five years have been the highest in the last 20 years. Only we will never do it in a way that would be irresponsible. We'll do it at our own pace, according to our own rules. And yes, we recognise that the role of gas and the role of nuclear energy is crucial for a fair transition, for the energy security of our country. There was a general question about the effectiveness of the negotiations. Usually it's hard to answer such questions, but today, I think it's still relatively easy to answer. If you ask in the European capitals about this, I think you will find it easy to confirm this thesis. It is rare that negotiations can be measured with a very clear quantification. In the case of negotiations on the multiannual budget and the Fund for Reconstruction, this can be done because it is only about numbers. These numbers are very clear. Poland is the only major country of the European Union, which is at the same time a very large beneficiary of the multiannual budget and the Fund for Reconstruction. There are countries that benefit from the budget, and there are countries that benefit mainly from the Fund for Reconstruction. Poland uses both of these instruments, in the case of both of them it is the beneficiary. I think this is a measure of the effectiveness of the negotiations. Are these negotiations easy? No. No budget negotiations and other negotiation processes in the most important areas have ever been so difficult. This is due to the political changes that are taking place in all the capitals of the Member States of the European Union. Very often these are negative changes. This also applies to those countries that some of you are eager to recall as a role model. These countries are also moving to a course which, say, I would call limited confidence in the European process. This is why there are problems with the enlargement process of the European Union. This is why protectionism problems arise in the common market. This is why, in the end, there are problems with the fact that the countries that earn the most from integration do not want to pay for the common budget. None of these problems occur in Poland, so if you want to account for anyone from Europe, please start with countries where this problem exists. As far as these three criteria are concerned, which I have mentioned and I think are very important, crucial for the development of the European Union... You will not find such problems in Warsaw, even if you try so hard, as you have seen just now. What changes have been made in the Union through Poland? That's a cross-cutting question. There's a lot to talk about, but I'm gonna say a few things passwordically. Without Poland, without the government of Beata Szydło, without the government of Mateusz Morawiecki, there would be no massive change in the European Union's migration policy. [[Applause]] I think that even short-term observers of what was happening in 2015 and what is happening today see that there has been a change in the Union's response. This is a change in a very important area. Without Poland, there would be no emphasis on the development of the common market. Without Poland, there would be no Fund for Reconstruction for all, not just for the southern part of the euro area, which was actually the most affected by the economic consequences of the pandemic. Without Poland there would be no market restrictions for the Russian gas export dictatorship to the European market. Through the Gas Directive and the amendments to this directive, which we have adopted together - together with some of the opposition politicians, I do not know whether with all, but certainly with a large part - today we can be much safer, because market rigour will be imposed on a much larger part of Russian gas, which will unfortunately have a comfortable place on the European market. This has not been affected by the European Union. That's what our western neighbor had to do with it. In trying to sum up not so much information, but this debate, I can say one thing: contrary to the hustle that accompanied the debate on European policy and I have the impression that it is permanently accompanying almost every debate in Poland, Poland is able to conduct constructive, aware of the interests of the state, predictable European policy in the area of such important key issues as security, foreign affairs, the market or industrial policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u360	Thank you very much. Does the applicant wish to speak? Please, Mr Andrzej Grzyb.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u361	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to be so wide-ranging that, so to speak, I would like to refer to the various topics that have been raised here, but I cannot go beyond the role of rapporteur for the committee. Therefore, I will allow myself to be limited in my speech, but at the same time I will not overlook certain things. Thank you very much for this discussion and for the various words that have been said here. I believe that this is my general point that the debate on the semi-annual reports, as far as the Portuguese Presidency is concerned, takes place in a rapid rhythm. This is very good. On the other hand, they should be placed during Parliament's deliberations. When they are at the end, we see that there are few of us, and there are many important topics that are about to appear here and will be, so to speak, rediscovered by all the Members in this Chamber. It's about Fit for 55, for example. After all, this will be a key issue from the point of view of regulation, which concerns various issues, among others. reducing emissions, a fair transformation, what I called here the whole building renovation program. This large programme was also discussed by the Minister. After all, this is all potentially huge money for Poland, but it also requires, so to speak, from our part of efficient implementation, as well as a certain agreement. In many speeches, in terms of energy and climate issues, there was a belief that public goods cost nothing. Using water, air, environment, biodiversity does not cost. However, these public goods have a specific price. If I say so, we'll exploit it, destroy it, we'll pay the price, too. Then we'll really know how much these public goods cost. This makes the development of our country, in terms of environmental issues, places of rest, various goods that we want to make available to us as clean, socially acceptable goods... It's all costing money. If the industry that we are developing and which should be developed takes away from the environment some of these goods or destroys some of them, we must bear the costs, whether we are in the European Union or not. This is a matter for discussion. Please read how many theorists, Nobel laureates in economics, value public goods as much as they cost. It's not like it's free. It seems to us that it's free because it's within reach. There's no cashier there. There's no ATM. These are not places where we have to pay for entry, but objectively we pay for it anyway. And that is why I would like to say that electricity prices are only rising because of European policy. They also grow because of European policy, but not only. We're getting lower and lower on coal. We have fewer and fewer discoveries that we can draw brown coal from. What are the problems, we see in Turów. Therefore, we must have this reflection that we must replace. Don't we have a problem with renovating our generation capacity? I mean, these 200 megawatt blocks are 40 years old. Each exchange of this block is a cost. And now there's a question and an answer. Mr Nowak can tell you what is in the pit of Pątnów-Konin. Technically, the power blocks have ended and need to be replaced. It is good that this process is moving towards renewable energy sources, but also towards technologies that should perhaps be developed, such as small modular reactor, small nuclear reactors, which are much less expensive, less environmentally burdensome. Why don't we find a compromise here? I am not an excessive fan of building a big energy plant, this is my private opinion, because this cost will be over 100 billion, while there is a very long process of use. But perhaps these modern technologies would be acceptable both from the social, environmental and cost side. This is an extremely important question. Ladies and gentlemen, ETS costs. Why are the ETS costs, these emission allowances, so high? Because it has been made, I believe, the wrong decision that they are traded on the financial markets. Unfortunately, there is speculation about these powers. Perhaps the direction is to withdraw these powers? Perhaps, Minister, this is the direction we should talk about. I don't know if it's possible right now to withdraw these powers. The goal was to raise the price of those rights that were very low. It was decided that they could also be traded in the financial markets. But from the point of view of those goals that we want to achieve, at present the price is EUR 60, that is not good. And even the greatest enthusiasts, so to speak, calling this, even for these objectives of climate neutrality, say: it will be socially unacceptable. An example is the French rapporteur from Renew Europe, who said so in the European Parliament. If social costs are to be such, it is socially unacceptable, it will not be acceptable. I think we should rather talk about these possibilities, where there are elements of some emotional or modernisation of this direction. It's not accepted at 100%. Or permanently. I would also like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that as Poland we have some successes. I was an applicant, for example. for the heating sector 30% allowances for the current period, the decade 2021 and 2030, were free of charge. The heating sector has not yet had 30% free allowances. So it worked. Although the criteria for granting these rights and withdrawing them from the market have been tightened, 30% of the Polish district heating sector has been awarded. Everyone said that the heating sector, that organised heat sources are conducive to climate, and in particular cogeneration is conducive to climate. Ladies and gentlemen, without climate policy, are there many such questions here that we would avoid these social costs? No. In many countries, it seems to me that this social tariff and energy poverty is a problem, even if there is no climate policy there, because these price cutters are very open. And we need to intervene in these countries. Look at the prices that are socially triggered in different countries. This does not apply only to the European Union. It is always a question, which narrative is true, that question was also here, whether it was in Poland or at European level. I think it's natural that in politics, as we communicate with voters, we use different terms, different quantifiers than the ones we use in the international community. That's the communication code. I would urge that this distance between this communication at European, international and what is said in the country be as small as possible so that there is no such a communal break-up. No one needs to inform the international bodies, including the European Union, what our views are. After all, we are heard every day, we are watched every day, and the deliberations of this Parliament are also observed. And every day there goes the claris that tells us what the actual views of the individual political factions are in our parliament and ours as politicians are. And that's the kind of agora everyone knows about. I don't want to talk about the very sensitive issue of gas, but I think we have our own thoughts on this, too. On the one hand, we built a gasport, on the other hand, we're building Baltic Pipe right now. The mistake was that this pipeline was abandoned at one time. We're fixing it right now. It would be good for these new pipelines to meet the criteria for the transport of hydrogen in the future, including that of green, blue hydrogen. After all, in a certain perspective gas, which is also an emission source for hydrocarbons, will also be replaced, among others. as part of a hydrogen policy. We should be technologically prepared for these purposes. I think that would be very important. The Union, in my view, does not negotiate gas prices, but the Union's regulatory decisions can have a huge impact on its price. I fully agree with what Minister Szymański said, that the issue of OLAF and what we negotiated as Poland, before the European Court of Justice, is an example of positive decisions for Poland. Regardless of how we rate Nord Stream, the land segment Nord Stream 2 will be subject to the third energy package. And that's a good solution. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Siekierski asked about the pandemic experience. They are such that we should count on shorter supply chains, in particular as regards the issue of components, e.g. for the manufacture of medicines. Europe has removed these components. They were mostly produced on the Chinese or Indian market. When the supply chains were broken, we had problems with medical devices, but also with personal protective equipment that were also produced in Asia. So what is strategic from the point of view of the European industry, including the Polish industry, the Polish consumer and the consumer, should largely be available and produced in Europe. We can't base everything on service. There has been such a report at European level for a long time, saying that at least 20% GDP should be produced in the manufacturing sector, in the industrial sector. If this percentage is lower, there is a huge threat to the functionality and functioning of the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, there is also a report by Tajani from 2010 or 2011, which refers to strategic raw materials for European industry. As Europe, we are poor in strategic raw materials, and as far as rare earth elements are concerned, it turns out that 80% of Asian tycoons are in the hands of one Asian tycoon. Some rare earth elements. Either they are fossils in their territory or in politically dependent territories, or they are bought places to extract them. It's up to modern technology. In this respect, Europe, including all Member States, should do much more. Thank you very much for being able to comment on this. I am saying that the debate on these different aspects should go back to our House to a broader extent. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u362	Thank you. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm immediately proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at second reading? [[Yes.]] You're in. I'm opening a discussion. Please, sir, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u363	That's enough, Marshal. Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I will refer to the two things you spoke about when you answered the questions from the first part of the debate. Firstly, the issue of climate policy. As far as our objectives are concerned, we expect our determination to be as great as Portugal's determination. It's not a question of what world we live in today. This is a question of the challenges of the future. It is a question of whether the next generations of Poles and Poles will be able to live in our country. We can't act on an alibi today. We have to act in such a way that their lives are possible here, otherwise all our hard work in other areas is for nothing. Today, on the government's side of this determination, we can't see. On the contrary, we see action to destroy the climate all the time, in favour of solutions that make our world impossible to live with. Second thing. If you are presenting a report, it should reflect what is actually happening in Poland, what decisions are being made. Unfortunately, this is not the case, which is why I am making an amendment (the bell) in which we are changing the draft of this resolution to rejecting the report submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u364	The discussion is closed. As an amendment was tabled to the draft resolution at second reading, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the European Union's Affairs Commission. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. On this we exhausted the agenda of the 38th meeting of the Polish Sejm. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Mr Grzegorz Lorek has the first vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u365	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Glass Piotr's. When entering Piotrków Trybunalski, the former line of the Warsaw-Vienna Railway from Koluszek's side, a careful traveler will notice a powerful industrial building. It is the remains of a large complex of industrial glassworks with quite exotic names: Kara and Hortensia. The first one has always produced clearly industrial assortment: window glass, which over time became its main product, but also bottles of various types, lighting cylinders and many others. It worked since 1897 and until 1935 all products were made by hand. Only then was the first glass pane pulling machine started. Kara was in foreign hands very often the arena of workers' strikes. Many steel workers volunteered to join the army in 1920 to defend their fresh independence from the Soviet crisis. During World War II, the area of Kara was a work camp for Jews from the Piotrków ghetto. It should be mentioned here that the Piotrków ghetto was the first ghetto in Europe and in the world and started its activities in the first days of September 1939. The Economic Glassworks of Kara, which did not survive the economic changes in the early 1990s, did not survive. While Kara produced industrial elements, Hortensia became a place for which art was born, not without a fennel. Artistic products from the Piotrkow steelworks delighted and still delight ordinary people and collectors. Very often at various auctions in Poland and abroad they reach high prices. Vases, plates from Hortensia are sought. The whole family had been involved with the plant for decades. They are known in Piotrków as the dynasty of steel workers who worked in it throughout its lifetime. During the thriving steelworks, Piotrków glass was sold to many countries on several continents. In 1989, a book on the history of the steelworks was published. This steelworks survived only a few years longer. Why am I talking about these bets today? It was from them that the real industrial development of Piotrków Trybunalski began, which was then the capital of the province, but practically there was no industry. Today the hut is gone, but the inhabitants of the city still remember about the Piotrków steelworks. Several small companies were built on their ruins. And when someone mentions this location, they say, "Here was Kara and there was Hortensia." Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u366	Thank you very much. Mrs Teresa Nolas. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There is no Member. Mrs Teresa Glenc. [[Voice from the Chamber: There is no Member.]] There isn't any either. Mr Jan Szopiński. Isn't there one? [[I'm here.]] It was a joke. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Oh, excuse me, sir, because I think Mr Paweł Lisiecki is still here. [[I'm here, I'm here.]] Why don't you put it in writing for the record? [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[I've waited too long...]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u367	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Social construction societies operate under the Act of 26 October 1995 on certain forms of support for construction. Their aim was primarily to build apartments for rent for people whose income was high enough that they could not benefit from the housing aid of the local government and at the same time were too low for them to take credit for their own apartment. TBS received financial support from the National Housing Fund, but it turns out that the control of TBS is limited because the Supreme Audit Office can only control TBSs whose shareholders are local government units, and that is only in so-called areas. the discipline of public finances. This means that the issue of TBS's disposal of funds from tenants, namely actually participants, is beyond all control of bodies not connected with the functioning of the social housing society. Another issue is TBS's ownership of participations paid by those interested in hiring companies. De facto, those who participated in the construction of the largest number of TBS in the country between 27 November 1995 and 31 December 2004 were deprived of the protection of their rights by the legislator. Despite the payment of between 25% and 30% of the cost of building a given housing unit, the participant obtained in return only the right to indicate the tenant of the premises, which in the vast majority of cases after a certain period of time laid down in the participating agreement simply expires. As a result of this legal solution, some TBSs deprived participants of the right to obtain reimbursement of paid participation in the event of termination of the agreement. TBSs often freely have paid-in participations without informing the participant either of their purpose or of their progress in the repayment of the loan. However, TBS is obliged to calculate the rent in such a way that its amount is sufficient in a given month only for the payment of the loan received, the cost of operating the building and the cost of renovations. If TBS collects from the tenants the funds to repay the loan and then does not transfer them to the bank by embezzling them in fact, the repayment period is extended by several years and the amount to be repaid will continue to fall on the premises concerned. TBS has no right to charge tenants several times with the same loan. The rent after repayment of the loan should be reduced by the amount of the instalment. Unfortunately, TBSs are not willing to provide tenants with any information on this subject. The tenants do not know often or for what period the TBS has incurred the loan and when the repayment should be completed on a scheduled basis and thus reduce the rent, or whether TBS has extended the repayment period due to a record of default with payment. Unfortunately, for many years TBS has been operating in some of them, there have been various kinds of pathologies and abuses, such as funding from money paid by music concert participants. Since the State grants public loans to entities such as TBS under preferential conditions, it should have control over how the agreements with the participating parties are constructed. From a legal point of view, participation is a property right and is inherited. The remaining value of the tenant's premises is paid in rent. This fact is of major importance, since it means that the repayment of the loan made by TBS is de facto not the borrower in its entirety but the tenant, or participant. This means that the tenant is burdened with the full cost of paying off the building and will never be the owner of the apartment. In other words, a social group was forced to choose TBS to have a place to live with their families because of insufficient income to buy the apartment. Meanwhile, the legislator has so unfortunately formulated legislation that this limited-income social group is forced to fund the municipality or private entity as the owner of TBS rental premises. The TBS Act must be amended and changes should move towards greater transparency and facilitation of the ownership of participants. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u368	Now Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u369	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Environmental contamination in areas after the former Zachem Chemical Works in Bydgoszcz has been a huge problem for many years. The failure and inefficiencies of subsequent governments, including both the rule of Law and Justice and Solidarna Poland, are buoyant in this matter. Thank you very much from here for monitoring this subject and supporting the inhabitants of Łęgów, fighting for clean water and clean air. Let me remind you that in Bydgoszcz Łęgów and in the vicinity, scientists from the Mining and Steel Academy discovered a whole list of dangerous carcinogens. TNT was also detected in groundwater in the Nitro-Chemu state environment. Not until mid-September this year. The Regional Environment Directorate has launched the so-called. Remediation, or purification of Łęgowo from harmful chemicals. Only that the installation should have worked long ago, and the actions taken in connection with the contamination of this area worth PLN 100 million raise numerous doubts of specialists and local authorities. According to them, it is a mistake that, prior to the selection of the site of remediation, no comprehensive research has been carried out on the groundwater environment and no comprehensive plan has been developed for the management of contaminated areas, and the project covers only a fragment of a stream of contaminated groundwater. The project also does not cover the remediation of an outbreak of pollution, which is why there is no possibility of intervention in private areas. As a result, after completion of the project in 2 years, the cleared area will be exposed to new pollution. And here, together with the inhabitants of Bydgoszcz, I draw the attention of the government and the Ministry of Climate and Environment to the need to make legal changes such as to give regional environmental management the opportunity to act also in private areas in the public interest and in the interests of the inhabitants. Even the adoption of a specialty should be considered in this regard. We also recommend that the funds granted to Poland for the implementation of the Polish Łódź should be allocated to comprehensive research, monitoring and full remediation of post-industrial sites, including, of course, non-chemical areas. On the above issues, I would like to make an interpellation, another one, to the Minister of Climate and Environment and together with local authorities and residents of Bydgoszcz I would expect urgent action from the Ministry and an urgent response. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u370	Mr Bartłomiej Dorywalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u371	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Czarnica is a village in the municipality of Włoszczow, a place of birth and burial of the great field captain Stefan Czarniecki, who in national tradition is a model of a solid soldier. Viewed by posterity as a patriotic pattern, he was mentioned in our national anthem. In the tradition of Włoszczow's land, it occupies a poster place - it is the patron of the primary school in Czarnca, the school group No. 2 in Włoszczów and the largest sports club in the district of Hetman Włoszczów. An important role in popularizing the knowledge about this national hero is played by the Society of Remembrance of Hetman Stefan Czarniecki, based in Czarny. The longtime president of the company was sleep. Zygmunt Fatyga, who was honored by the President of the Republic of Poland with the Golden Cross of Merit for his work to promote the memory of the captain. It was appreciated for its active activities in favour of popularization of the hetman character, nurturing and developing cultural heritage by securing and renewing souvenirs after the hetman, as well as organizing national celebrations. Currently, Ms Wiesława Krawczyk is President. Since 1992, the company has perpetuated the memory of the captain Stefan Czarniecki as a national hero, exhibits his patriotism and merits for his homeland and links him to Black and Italian soil. The Society takes many actions aimed at popularizing knowledge and memory of a great hero. It restored many souvenirs in the local church, took care of the arboretum park, led to the location of the monument in front of the school, unveiled the plaque and planted the oak of friendship. All these actions were aimed at cultivating the memory of a great man, who is our national hero. The organization of the tournaments and the ceremonies of the hetmans cause the Blacks to come to a crowd of history enthusiasts. These activities are reflected in the increase in the attractiveness of the tourist land of Italy. Thank you very much to the company for cultivating the memory of an outstanding Pole - the great captain of the field crown Stefan Czarniecki. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u372	Thank you. Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u373	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In Poland it was assumed that the older person was a person aged 60 and over. In recent years, there has been an increasing process of population ageing in our country. The number of older people is growing systematically. At the end of 2019, the number of people aged 60 and over exceeded 9 million and increased by 2.1% compared to the previous year. The proportion of older people in the Polish population reached 25.3%. At the end of 2019, the number of people working at the age of 60 and over and having a fixed pension right amounted to 503 000. Compared to 2018, the number of these people increased by 7.5%. In 2019 the average monthly pension and gross pension paid from non-agricultural social security systems amounted to PLN 2327 gross. I stress: gross. The pension is deducted from the tax and health contribution, which will be increased in the near future and will absorb the proposed tax credit. Definitely lower was the average monthly pension and gross pension of individual farmers, which in 2019 reached just PLN 1292. It's gotten a little bigger lately. Progressive changes in the demographic structure of the population linked to the increase in the participation of older people represent a challenge for the economy and society. The ageing of the population has a major impact on the functioning of the health system - older people are more likely to go to doctors and benefit from social protection. And here, ladies and gentlemen, an even bigger problem begins. A few years ago, especially in rural areas, we had multigenerational families: grandparents, children and grandchildren. Grandparents took care of their grandchildren, the children worked, and everyone supported each other. This was conditioned, among others. no housing in the market. Today, improving the housing market, access to credit allows young people to quickly become independent and live on their own. Grandparents, older parents remain alone in their homes or apartments. As long as they're fit and self-sufficient, it's good, but the problem starts when they get sick or get old. We need 24-hour help a day. The care of the elderly in Poland is focused on social assistance homes, which are part of the public system. The care there is on very different levels, the rooms are multiplayer and it is more associated with hospice than a nursing home for seniors. Insufficient staff, lack of space, not enough rehabilitation. Social assistance homes, state units account for 43% the total number of long-term residences of older people and there are more than 60% of beds. This means that these are mostly large facilities. Size in this case does not always go hand in hand with the quality of services. The number of institutions where patients have to pay for their stay from their own pockets rather than through the National Fund or pensions is growing dynamically in recent years. There's a lot of demand for private nursing homes for seniors. Thanks to this, they get among others. smaller room or numerous amenities and services, e.g. relaxation and beauty zones, married apartments decorated in the form of apartments. The dynamic growth of private institutions in recent years mainly concerns so-called. 24-hour care facilities, which represent the majority of nearly 700 private institutions currently operating in Poland. It is also worth noting that a large number of people staying in the DPS will never become clients of private establishments due to the limited financial resources they have at their disposal. The average price of a person staying in a senior's private house depending on the quality of services varies: from 4 thousand. PLN per month, goes up, some are up to 12 thousand. zł. Sometimes the whole family does, but what if the family is small or missing? Believe me, for a Polish senior who worked hard for several decades, the use of family help is humiliating. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish seniors don't want to cause the family any trouble. The pension is too small to cover the cost of the stay, and there are plenty of elderly people locked up like prisoners in the apartments. The pension is enough to cover the cost of the apartment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u374	Thank you, Member. Mr Jacek Kurzepa, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u375	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The environment of Polish Science! Student Brothers! Gaudeamus Igitur is resounding in many Polish cities, wherever there are universities, universities whose responsibility is to educate the future elites of our homeland. After last year's experience of pandemic teaching, we return to what seems to be the most beautiful social, cultural and cognitive experience - real meetings with our masters in selected fields and following them. I hope that such emotions and such perceptions of relationship between the scientist, the researcher, the academic teacher and his students are still present, the more felt, the more effectively limited by the sanitary regime and the necessary distance. We return to our universities, almae matris, which means in Latin a mother feeding, whose role is to satisfy the students of science for their entire future life and career reliable, objective and as up-to-date knowledge, which will make graduates not only feel useful to society, but also really and their potential through this society will be used. The mother of the feeder. Who today is focused on this perception of the university? May many of you, even if this concept is enclosed in a discreet Latin model, not available to many who will once again or for the first time enter into open arms, the gate of your universities, it is associated with the source of wisdom, the source from which you can draw from the generosity of the masters and their belief that the domain of the one who knows more is to bear greater responsibility. This responsibility in the university walls refers to three perspectives: the past, the present and the future. The past, while still from the depths of the centuries-old achievements of our predecessors, we can, for we must draw from the anchoring of the past. It is easier for us to understand the present, with the opportunity to avoid the mistakes against which our predecessors inquired. So we can reach higher, bolder, deeper, more focused on modern times, but it did not satisfy us. We move on the more zealously, the more we understand that they, our students, will function in the future. So for them and with them we want to shape it, prepare for it. Entering the academy space, you enter into a permanent intellectual flirting with the time given to you today, over the past time, which sets you high standards of profession, and at the same time you are drawn towards the future, whose imagination you try to realize, describe, create. You're not alone here, you're surrounded by the rich work of others, this dress of wisdom of the ages has padded your route, and in some ways determines the direction of exploration. If we personify the university as the mother of the feeding woman, then know that it offers you, the student, the best conditions for development. Appreciate it and keep it up to its generosity, you too. What do you mean? You're shy to ask. Like a child loving their mother, for whom the most beautiful proof of your love is the belief that a son, a daughter, turned out to be human. Measure high, do not extinguish your aspirations, strengthen them with diligence, take advantage of the time given to you, enjoy the feeling of self-satisfying, in the positive egoism of maximizing from the crypt of wisdom. Be brave, creative and hardworking. Gaude, Mater! Gaudeamus igitur! Let's all be happy because we're going back to our colleges. Greetings to all the dorms. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u376	Mrs Magdalena Filiks, Civic Coalition. There is no Member. Mr Tomasz Olichwer, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u377	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, I am asking you from this place, on behalf of myself and other Members of my constituency, to ask for help in solving the problem of odor, which for many years has severely hindered the normal functioning of the inhabitants of Zabrza. At the end of last year, the modernisation of the waste treatment facility in FCC's regional municipal waste facility was completed at ul. A cemetery in Zabrze. The investment worth more than PLN 15 million, which includes primarily hermetization, was aimed at eliminating the smell in the city centre. This topic has become one of the main social problems in recent years. Children who go to schools in the city centre in the fields breathe this smelly air. Not to mention people who live or work nearby. When you return from another city to Zabrze, the stench is already in the air. It's like a welcome home. Unfortunately, I'm saying this with a little irony. It's a very sad image of my hometown. This problem has been addressed repeatedly in city council sessions, local and regional press, social media as well. It was also the cause of many protests and blockades organized on the road to the company or before the city office by Zabrzane socialists. Unfortunately, for as much as PLN 15 million, the investment aimed at eliminating the bad smell has not met the expected results so far. At the last session of the City Council in Zabrze, the city president informed that she had asked the Silesian voivodeship and the Regional Environmental Inspector in Katowice to carry out a check on whether the hermetics had been carried out properly at FCC. She also asked local Members to support this issue because, as she pointed out, her competence to address this problem is insufficient due to legal regulation. Dear Prime Minister, We cannot allow this situation to go on forever. That is why we are asking the Prime Minister to help us solve this very difficult problem for the people. We also ask for your personal support and the involvement of the relevant services to carry out a check on whether the investment in FCC has been carried out correctly, as it has not so far brought the expected results to the inhabitants of Zabrza. The proposal is also made in writing, where MEPs Tomasz Głogowski, Krystyna Szumilas, Wanda Nowicka and Marta Golbik signed in addition to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u378	Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u379	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! During my speech, I would like to refer to yesterday's session of the Sejm, to the debate on the state of emergency. It is really sad that in a situation where, as a whole House, we should focus on national interests, on defending Polish borders, on cooperation... We were parliamentarians at the meetings of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, also at secret meetings, and we were well aware as a whole of the great responsibility that we have. On the other hand, the vote was alarming because only 237 Members voted in favour of extending this state of emergency, 179 against, 22 abstentions. Let me put it this way: With regard to these votes against, I trusted that after this reflection of the total opposition, which wanted in some way to go to the center, that is to rebuild the electorate and the votes lost... I saw Mr. Donald Tusk's convention in Płońsk and almost made a bet with one of the editors during the TV show. I thought that the Civic Platform, the Civic Coalition would vote for an extension of the state of emergency, because I thought it would be such a gesture: I'm checking that 60 days of the United Right government will get that trust from the total opposition. That it would be a concrete gesture, not that on the one hand there is an attack on Catholics, going towards the extreme left, then rebuilding this electorate, then kissing bread, talking about values. I've been waiting for something specific, but it wasn't. There was a vote against, only to show cheap populism, which is populism more important than the interests of the state. The left has done the same, although many parliamentarians have said that they are aware of the seriousness of the situation, while the political interest has won against the interests of the state. 22 abstentions, it was the Polish Coalition. There's no stopping it when we're defending the borders. We do not know what kind of voice this parliamentarian has, whether he wants to be for and defend the Polish borders or whether he wants to be against and builds political interest. In fact, it is a very dangerous voice, because it is a voice that does not know and weighs the interest of Poland. This is very dangerous and unpleasant from the interest of the Polish state. I hope that, with similar votes in the future, the High House will be fully up to its task. There can be no similar situation and saying that the Ministers of Kaminski or Błaszczak did not inform parliamentarians in any way. Ladies and gentlemen! It's not kindergarten that we have to have everything written, drawn and packed backpack. We're parliamentarians. Each of you represents your constituents, has been elected, should be serious and take this mandate seriously. And I think in a situation where... Maybe that information wasn't 100 percent because it couldn't be in any way. None of the Members of the United Rights, Law and Justice, Solidarna Polska had 100 percent information either. On the other hand, we were members of all groups at secret committee meetings, we were in meetings with the Minister, just a few days before this important vote in committee administration, at a public hearing. It didn't have the expected effect, and I'm sorry I'd lose the bet if I bet with your editor. I'd lose this bet because I thought the High House was able to stand up to the task as a whole at this point. Unfortunately, there was no whole to the delight of Lukashenka, to the joy of the regimes, which will certainly exploit this fact and exploit through their propaganda also the harm of children. I hope that in the future, the High Chamber will stand fully up to its task. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u380	Magdalena Łośko, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u381	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The President of the Civil Aviation Office together with the Polish Air Navigation Agency proposes the introduction of 70% increases so-called. Airline navigation charges in 2022 Already before the pandemic, the rates of navigation fees were uncompetitive at Polish airports compared to rates throughout the European Union. In 2019 the average fee at European airports was EUR 166 on average. In turn in Poland - average EUR 181. Proposed increase of 70% will make Polish airports even more uncompetitive both on the European and Polish markets. In the first zone in which Chopin airport is located in Warsaw, in 2022 the rates may be over PLN 524. For all other ports that belong to the second zone, the charges will be PLN 1347. The introduction of such drastic increases in navigation fees can lead to a collapse of the aviation market in Poland. In the first place, air tickets will be significantly used, then some connections will be closed, and part of the line will completely withdraw its offer from Polish connections, transferring them to other European airports. This poses a very serious threat to the functioning of Polish regional airports. This also applies to Bydgoszcz Airport operating in my region. Bydgoszcz Airport provides air services to residents of the entire Kujawsko-Pomorskie region, but also to investors and tourists from abroad. The port is a very important element of the development of the city and our region. He's our window to the world. From this point of view, I appeal to the government, the Civil Aviation Authority and the Polish Air Navigation Agency to withdraw from 70% increase in navigation fees, which represent a very serious threat to the functioning of Polish regional airports. This will prevent the liquidation of air services in Poland, among others. from Bydgoszcz Airport, and other regional airports in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u382	Thank you. Mrs Teresa Glenc, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u383	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's new academic year brings challenges not only for professors, but also for the Polish government. Above all, the mission of higher education is to educate students at the highest level, to co-create national culture in a spirit of fidelity to the 1050-year-old heritage of Poland. It is the future of Poland that depends on young people. A very important element for the academic community is to opt for values such as love of truth, honor and mutual respect. In schools and universities, there is a need for teachers who, with dedication, passion and dedication, will transfer knowledge and educate young people in a spirit of respect for their homeland and Christian values, who will be a reference point for them at the stage of entering into adult life. They should be authorities in every area. Students have already passed the first month of primary and secondary education. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and the government are making every effort to ensure the safe return of children and young people to schools. The Minister of Education and Science, Prof. Przemysław Czarnek, together with his department, takes up many tasks aimed at supporting students and students after a period of remote learning. These are among others. helping universities to counter the effects of pandemics, a new programme to learn about society and develop an academic freedom package. Speaking to students and people of the world of science, I would like to remind you of the words of the great Pole of St. John Paul II : Seek the truth where it really is. If necessary, be determined to go against the current of circular views and promoted passwords. Require of yourselves, even if others do not require of you. The task of the professor's staff is to alert students and students to the benefit of the common nation and to learn responsibility for the future of Poland. In order to serve the nation well, by also developing in science and in professional work, you need to know history of our country, rich culture, history, as well as traditions passed down from generation to generation. When necessary, we must courageously defend our sacred values and resist lying to history. Poland needs people open to the world, fearless to take up new challenges, loving their country and family home. In schools and universities, there is a need to create places for mutual friendly dialogue. I wish all students and professors that the new academic year brings with it new, interesting experiences, joy in expanding knowledge and skills, courage in setting life goals and perseverance in achieving them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u384	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u385	Declaration on Cyprian Kamil Norwid for his 200th anniversary. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Together with colleagues from the parliamentary benches last year, we adopted a resolution to establish the year 2021 as the year of the great artist, poet and prose writer Cyprian Kamil Norwid. September 24th was the 200th anniversary of his birthday. He was uncompromising in the evaluations of the modern world, which caused that only part of his works was published in life, from poetry it was only one volume of poems. The most important thing for Norwid was patriotism and deep Catholic faith. In his work he focused primarily on man. He spent his youth in Poland, while he was an adult in emigration, from which he could not return due to the recognition of him as a political exile by the Russian authorities. He died on May 23, 1883, forgotten in a Paris workhouse, leaving behind wonderful works - both literary and painting. The Renaissance of Norwid's works began only during the Young Poland period, when poems of the poet came to the hands of Zenon Przesmycki. Today Cyprian Kamil Norwid is the patron of many institutions or places. His paintings and graphics are wanted by collectors, and literary works are subjected to continuous analysis and interpretation by many artists of the contemporary artistic scene. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u386	Declaration on the European Day for Combating Depression. In my statement, I would like to draw attention to depression as a disease with which more and more people are struggling, including in Poland. On 1 October, there is a European Day for Combating Depression, but we should remember this illness and illness every day, as depression is the fourth most serious disease in the world and one of the main causes of suicide. According to current estimates, it is assumed that by 2030 it will also become the first most frequently diagnosed disease unit in the world. There are 350 million people in the world and 4 million in Poland. Today, as well as every day, we should remember that depression is not a sign of weakness. It can touch everyone, regardless of age, gender or social status. We must remember that this condition reduces mood and makes everyday functioning difficult or impossible. The result is anxiety, sadness, lack of energy and very low self-esteem. Depression takes away the daily joy of life and contributes to severe mental suffering, and its failure to cure it may later have serious consequences, including the taking of a life of its own. Let us remember that support for loved ones is one of the first and key factors in the process of mental recovery. Depression can be completely cured by pharmacological treatment and therapy with a psychologist or a psychotherapist. Not only today, but every day let's pay attention to our loved ones and the people around us, and then help them get back in shape.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u387	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On Friday, September 17th, we celebrate World Sybirak Day. This important celebration was established on the anniversary of the Russian attack on Poland and although the celebrations organized by the Sibirak Union have been held annually since 1991, it was only in 2013 that the Polish Sejm formally established the day of 17 September Sibirak. History has many ways of persecuting the population because of nationality, social status, or religion. Concentration camps, mass executions, or eventually alienated fundamental human rights, stripped humanity of humanity. These actions are an expression of the darkest pages of history. Their effect was not only to humiliate the victims, but also to glorify the power of the oppressors. This was the fate of the Sibiraks, who were massively exported into the cold guts of the USSR and to the endless steppes of Kazakhstan. Crammed in cattle cars, decimated by disease and frost. Their bones still lie in unknown graves by roads and tracks, in forests and on broken steppe land. At this point it should be emphasized that our fellow countrymen in Siberia began in the 17th century. The first group of exiles was about 10,000. participants in the bar confederation. In the following centuries, insurgents who participated in all independence breaks, in the uprisings of Kościuszko, November and January were sent to Russia. The turn of the 19th and 20th centuries is the time of the troops of independence conspiracy activists, including General Józef Piłsudski. The blackest part of the story concerning the exiles of Poles to the Far East began with the Soviet aggression in September 1939. After September 17, over 1.5 million Poles were deported to Siberia and Kazakhstan. Sibir consumed many lives, hundreds of thousands of victims were not allowed to return to their homeland. Those who have succeeded in this are still remembering the humiliating conditions in which they live. The exile left a deep scar in the consciousness of all who came to experience it. Although many years have passed since those tragic events, the memory of the harm that has been done is still intact. Today, the last sibiracs are slowly leaving, along with them memories and stories of inhuman events that occurred to them on distant eastern earth. September 17 is a special date in the history of Poland. It is marked by the great pain and suffering of millions of Poles. Let us remember that this day has a unique dimension especially for sibiracs and the vernaculars. It is a symbol of the marking of their lives, and at the same time a meaningful way to preserve in the memory of their tragedy and wandering fate. Let us make every effort to ensure that the dramatic events of this period survive in the memory and consciousness of subsequent generations. Therefore, let us devote this day to meetings with former sibiracs to listen to their difficult stories and then be able to pass them on to the next generation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u388	Dear Marshal! I hereby declare that, as a result of a mistake, I voted in favour at the 38th Sejm meeting of 01.10.021 in point 25: Report from the Commission on the Government draft law amending the budget law for 2021 (prints 1585, 1585-A, 1616 and 1616-A) - voting on the whole of the project. My intention was to vote against.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u389	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Poles feel a crazy price. At an alarming rate, food, gas, energy and housing are more expensive. There's also fuel. I recall that a few years ago the president of PiS Jarosław Kaczyński took up this subject at a press conference. He called for the government at that time to lower the tax rates that are included in the price of fuel. This could result in lower prices at petrol stations. Fuel prices would become more citizen-friendly, but also for the economy. It should be borne in mind that in the case of 95-octane petrol, the share of taxes in the price is dangerously close to 60%. This shows that there is room for rational tax reduction. Today, high fuel prices can be a major barrier to economic development. The fuel price affects almost all products and services. For this reason, rising fuel prices tend to lead to higher prices for products and services. Meanwhile, the economy and, above all, citizens are at an extremely difficult time. After the problems caused by the pandemic, Poland needs a strong impetus for development. Such an impulse could be to reduce the price of fuels by reducing the tax rates that are included in the price of fuels. That is why today I expect the PiS government to make a specific decision to reduce the tax rates included in the fuel price.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u390	Dear Marshal! I hereby declare that, as a result of a mistake, I voted in favour at the 38th Sejm meeting of 01.10.021 in point 6: Report from the Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and certain other laws (prints No 1532, 1532-A, 1597 and 1597-A) - voting on the whole of the project. My intention was to vote against.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u391	Dear Marshal! I hereby declare that in the vote No 74, which took place during the session of the 38th meeting of the Polish Sejm on 1 October 2021, over the whole of the draft law on family custody capital (prints No 1509 and 1601) I voted mistakenly against. My will was to vote for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-01-sejm-38-3.u392	Information about the impact of interpellations and queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. At this end we concluded the 38th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 39th session of the Sejm convened on 13 and 14 October 2021 was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[Applause]] [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 21 min 00]]
